ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Agatha Borowiec, Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Arthur Soboń as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Soboń. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Łukasz Schreiber. I consider the minutes of the 23rd session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the civil draft law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws, print No 732, - Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016. (Leadership of the Netherlands to the Council of the European Union), printing No 712, together with the position of the Commission for European Affairs, printing No 714. At its 23rd meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the motion to reject the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development's information on the current situation on the basic agricultural markets, the EU Council's arrangements for Agriculture and Fisheries concerning the situation on agricultural markets and the planned support measures, the development programme of the main agricultural markets in Poland for the years 2016 to 2020 contained in print No 760. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The group of Members submitted a request for the removal of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause]] The application is printer number 787. Therefore, pursuant to Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this request. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in discussions on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 and on the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights; on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Objection!]] Objection. I would just ask you to explain exactly what this objection is about. [[Extending time.]] If you'd be kind enough to say which point is the objection. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u2	Dear Marshal, With regard to these matters, you have set a very short speaking time - 5 minutes, and therefore the object is to extend the speaking time to 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u3	But which point is it? [[The one you asked about.]] No. Is this about the National Judicial Council? Yeah, it's ten minutes... [[About which you asked if there was an objection.]] [[You don't make jokes, Marshal.]] Mrs... I inform the High House that the House has agreed to give ten minutes' speeches on behalf of the clubs and five minutes' speeches on behalf of the circle as part of the points concerning information from the activities of the Ombudsman and the National Judicial Council. [[But it's about the point you asked me when you asked me to object. Please read it.]] But when it comes to the five-minute speeches, I understand there's an objection, so that it doesn't have to be that long, right? [[Please read the last question and phrase before the last question.]] It's longer than ten minutes, isn't it? Oh, I see, Mrs... Then suggest you tell me how many minutes. [[15.]] I get it. It's 15 minutes. There is an objection to the debate, 10-minute speeches in the case of the National Judicial Council. There is a proposal that the statements be 15 minutes' notice and this proposal, ladies and gentlemen, I would put to the vote. Good. We're about to vote. The cards are being issued right now. I would like to inform you that the Seniors Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the dramatic situation in Polish agriculture caused by the fall in the prices of agri-food products and the spread of the ASF virus, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. We are waiting for all Members to draw up voting cards. In that case, I ask the Secretary to read the messages. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11.30, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 12, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12.30, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the votes - approx. hour 12.30, - Constitutional responsibility - 15 minutes after the end of voting - approx. hour. 12.45, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 2.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - National Defence together with the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - at 3 p.m. 16, - Social and Family Policy together with the Commission for State Control - h.m. 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - immediately after the end of the votes - ca. hours. 7:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u5	We can proceed with the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Let me remind you that we will be voting on extending the debate on information from the activities of the National Judicial Council. Who among you and your fellow Members is behind the 15-minute statements in the debate on the report of the National Judicial Council, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 383 Members voted. 159 Members voted against - 224, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposal and we are therefore on the Bureau's proposal. At the moment, I would ask Marshal Joachim Brudziński to take over the proceedings. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]] We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Request for the removal of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (print No 787). Group of Members, pursuant to Article. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, she filed a request for the dismissal of Mr Mark Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm and the election of Mr Rafał Grupiński as Marshal of the Sejm. I would ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Lenz to state the reasons for the proposal. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November 12th Ub. When Mr Marek Kuchciński took the office of Marshal of the Sejm, we voted in favour of this candidacy as a Civic Platform club. We have respected the Parliament's custom of having the ruling party fill this office. You, Mr. Marshal, have been a parliamentarians since 2001 and the Vice-Marshal since 2010 seemed like a candidate we can accept. However, the months that followed turned out to be a negative surprise for the opposition clubs. As my colleague from the Civic Platform Club, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, said in one of the debates: What has happened to you? Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, a well-liked parliamentarians... [[Oh, my God.]] [[What kind of motion is that? What kind of motion is that?]] ...as well as those with a noticeable personal culture, you have become a guardian of the interests of the Unity of Jarosław Kaczyński, seeking opposition to various methods: reception of the vote, exclusion from deliberations and financial penalties, using tools from the article. 175 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm like a mace. On 12 November, as the new Marshal of the Sejm, you said to the High House: Our duty is above all to make law for the common benefit. We are also aware, personally I am also aware that the Sejm cannot be a good law without consultation and against social interests. In fulfilling my duties as Speaker of the House, I will uphold the freedom of expression of Members, regardless of party membership, and the right to debate between the governing camp, the majority ruling and opposition parties. Mr. Marshal, by observing what you've been serving for almost a year, these words can bloom really only with empty laughter. Your words that came out during your first speech should sound like an echo in any situation I'm going to mention right now. In fact, we can start with the very first day of your marshal's office, even the first hour. I am talking about the lack of a position of Vice-Marshal for the Polish People's Party. I know that you did not have much to say about this, that the decision was made by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...but it was you who gave it a face, breaking this seymous custom of representation of every club at the Sejm Bureau. In my first speech as a marshal, you mentioned the importance and historical burden of the office you embraced. You recalled that it was created in 1550. The various Poles held this office. In the third Republic alone we had 16 marshals. Among them are people as outstanding and worthy to follow as Wiesław Chrzanowski. Our House, I must admit, has generally had some sort of luck with marshals. To a large extent, they were conceptual people, open to all political options, respecting the law in force. They were certainly marshals: Józef Zych, died in Smolensk Maciej Płażyński or Marek Borowski. You, Mr. Marshal, unfortunately, are not part of this group. Do you know the difference between you and Marshal Borowski? It was him, in a very similar situation that you had on 14 April this year, here in this plenary room, who was able to act like a marshal, the President of this House and the guardian of its rights. On 14 April 2016, he was perhaps the biggest failure of your role as marshal. This is a meeting where in a spectacularly fast paced PiS wanted to elect another judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Then it came to the so-called. Four-handed vote. When Mrs Zwierzan voted in favour of the absent Marshal Morawiecki, when the opposition asked you to resume the vote, you closed the session and left the room. Not much, even when the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda asked you to explain it, you even lied to the President of the Republic, saying in response that there was no such conclusion. You have done nothing about punishing Ms. Mirror and Marshal Moravian for this unworthy behaviour of this House. This was not in your hands, and above all your superior, Jarosław Kaczyński. The prosecution itself, later at the request of the Civic Platform, has initiated investigations into this case, as well as your behaviour. You have not benefited from the experience of previous marshals, especially the Marshal Borowski, who himself reported to the prosecutor's office on two Members, which is very important, from his own parliamentary club. After all, you were already a parliamentarians, and I'm sure you remember that situation. Each of the voting cases for other Members has been punished and stigmatized, and it must be done this time. On the same day, it was not your competence to be the victim, but the fear or even malice that I became personally. During the formal application, you interrupted me after twenty seconds of speaking, then taking the floor and excluding me from the sitting, and ultimately imposing a financial penalty with the help of the Deputy Marshals Brudziński and Terletki. Under the pressure of all parliamentary clubs, of course outside the Law and Justice, the financial penalty was finally revoked, but the financial penalty of the Sejm Bureau also punished another Member of the opposition, Michael Szczerba. On 2 December of the previous year, 37 seconds exceeded the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for questions. That was the reason he took $2.5,000 from him. Evil from the Members' salary. During the implementation of the same 6th item of the agenda there were also other cases of exceedance of the time limit for which the Marshal did not respond. In his speech, Mr Kornel Morawiecki exceeded his speaking time by 2 minutes and 7 seconds, and on 20 May this year, Mr Maciej Małecki from Law and Justice exceeded his speaking time by 3 minutes and 54 seconds. As you can see, they are equal and equally equal in this House of Parliament. How, then, can we explain such behavior to the marshal if he is not trying to intimidate and gag the opposition's mouth? In a similar situation, the European Court of Human Rights punished the Hungarian authorities on the grounds that parliamentary autonomy should not be abused in order to suppress the freedom of expression of parliamentarians, which is the heart of the political debate. It has become a standard for parliamentarians to take the floor, to refuse questions and to disregard their proposals. On 7 July, during Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha's speech on the Constitutional Tribunal, you denied him the floor, preventing him from de facto exercising his mandate. You have been notoriously preventing Members of the opposition from fulfilling their duties, as the last meeting has shown. On 22 July, you directly prohibited the questioning of the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act. President Andrzej Duda at the inauguration of the 8th parliamentary term reminded us, here working, that the Sejm is part of the parliament. The word "parliament" is derived from the word "spoken," so it is a place of debate and disputes. I wish you'd taken those words to heart. Professor Jadwiga Stanishkis, who has been one of the brightest stars among the elites of this part of the political web page, in an interview for the weekly "The Marshal" in December, expressed herself as follows: I feel humiliated by the fact that the other man in the country, Marek Kuchciński, is the Marek Kuchciński, evidently a man of delivery and a pawn of this infantile dictatorship. I'm sure those are unpleasant words from the professor, [[Applause]] But they should give the marshal some thought. What is your availability, Marshal? Let's move away from the issue of proceedings for a moment, and let's look at how they are organized. This availability is visible as on the palm of the hand. In the previous terms of office, we most often met for an hour's vote. 9. During this term of voting, they can begin at even an hour. 11, sometimes and later. Why? Because as we all know, Jarosław Kaczyński doesn't like to get up in the morning. [[What nonsense are you talking about?]] It is simply for 459 Members to adjust their working day to one parliamentarians. [[You're surprised you got punished?]] Your service towards Jarosław Kaczyński was reflected in the situation of 29 January when Mr Kaczyński received the prize awarded by the Polish Gazeta. [[Watch out, he's gonna chase you with a cat.]] We waited here in the halls for 3 hours for Jarosław Kaczyński to return to the Sejm from the gala and banquet. It would take a long time to talk about how often we have to work until hours. 2, 3 a.m. to implement at an express rate the ideas already mentioned many times by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. The Marshal responded to this point by Mrs Augustynowska from 25 November: "There is no limited working time, so she should work 24 hours a day." [[Yes, sir.]] Mr. Marshal, a Member is also a man. Maybe a little reminder from biology: the human brain, under the influence of fatigue, needs long-term work to regenerate to maintain concentration and intellectual efficiency. Unless you're looking for a marshal to reduce the intellectual capacity of the Sejm. [[What he said when he said those words.]] You're limiting the possibilities of journalistic work. In March, you shut down the Sejm's cockroaches for journalists, and in the end you intend to lock them in one room, significantly restricting their work opportunities and access to parliamentarians. [[Yes, sir.]] [[And gag.]] For years, however, it has been known that authoritarian power is not on the way with free media. With regard to the 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party written by Law and Justice, you allowed the marshals to pervert all good parliamentary customs. We still haven't gotten this audit in writing. Where is he, marshal? The High Chamber did not have the opportunity to get a glimpse of these questionable results, we came and without preparation for many hours we listened to not substantive speeches, but unfounded accusations. These actions by Mr Marshal were once again part of the political game by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. You cannot fail to mention allowing your marshal to use the so-called unwarranted use of the so-called. the parliamentary legislative path, of course for government projects. What does the government gain from this? The fact is that he does not have to consult these projects with NGOs, constitutional bodies and the public. However, what most justifies the validity of your appeal was the behaviour of the marshal during the work on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. Law and Justice very often accuses the Civic Platform of trying to quietly push its judges away. That's not true. Work on the Law adopted in June 2015 lasted almost 2 years. They presented their opinion on the project, among others.: Supreme Court, Attorney General, then an independent official, not a front politician, State Treasury Attorney General, Bar Attorney General Council or National Judicial Council. There is no way to deal with such important, fundamental issues without an opinion and consultation with these bodies. Moreover, this violates the aforementioned article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. And it's you, marshal, who's responsible. The resolutions of 25 November of the previous year, adopted in an outrageous manner, without a substantive debate, at an incomprehensiblely crazy pace, introduced a legal novel - an out-of-law condition for the expiry of the mandate of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. You broke, Marshal, art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm providing that the first reading of draft laws concerning public authorities such as the Constitutional Tribunal should take place in the plenary chamber and not in committees. The Committee for Legal Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences in its resolution of 26 November 2015 also stated that there was a breach of the deadlines for reading this, the deadlines for the delivery of the draft laws to Members and, as I mentioned, the constitutional obligation to consult the National Council of Judicial Affairs. The resolution itself is crushing for this bill, and you are responsible for it. You have spoken, Mr. Marshal, also about the Constitutional Tribunal itself, although from what we have seen in recent months, the court's opinion and authority on this matter are of little importance to you. The judgment of the Court of Justice of 9 December 2015 strongly criticised not only the law itself, but also the manner in which it was founded, and you, Mr Marshal, did again break the law six days later, starting work on another draft law on the Court of Justice by PiS without any consultation. The above reasons and the above mentioned events clearly indicate that Mr Marek Kuchciński does not properly fulfil his duties as a second person in the state - the Marshal of the Lower House of the Polish Parliament. You have failed, Mr Marshal, Members, not meeting our expectations built in the past years of your parliamentary activities. [[Ours is fulfilling.]] You meet the expectations of only one parliamentarian - Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, and you are subjecting the functioning of the Polish parliament to him. You have repeatedly violated Polish law and we are sure that you are willing to break it further, with all the consequences involved. That's why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club... [[Who are you calling off?]] ... asks that Mr Marek Kuchciński be dismissed from the office of Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, at the same time pointing out the position of Mr Rafał Grupiński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u7	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the question is, who does the Civic Platform really want to cancel: Mr. Marshal or me? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] 'Cause the speech said it was me. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Of what?]] But let's get to the point. The Civic Platform Club, the opposition at all, of course, has the right to make such an application... [[Thank you very much.]] ...we honor this kind of law... [[Grace is great.]] ...but it's our job to answer, because the Sejm is a debate, it's a dialogue, it's a conversation, it's a meeting. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Really?]] So I'm going to allow myself a short one, because only five minutes, an answer. I think we need to take two planes here. The first one is historical in nature. It is important because it defines the moral right of the Civic Platform to make such proposals. [[Granda.]] Such moral law could result from the fact that the Civic Platform is a party of respect for democracy, respect for the opposition. A party that thought that opposition was a normal part of public life, that it was normal that it would take over power etc., etc. Well, what was it like in the last eight years? In those eight years, the Civic Platform did not hide that its purpose was to annihilate the only real opposition, the Law and Justice. [[You're lying.]] The actions undertaken in this area were very broad in nature and addressed various issues. There have been various restrictions on citizens' rights, opposition rights, which are often hard on democracy. Even basic freedom of speech was allowed. Well, this Seym discusses the matter of master's work defended at the oldest Polish university. And you weren't ashamed of it, even though it really was a terrible shame. [[Exactly.]] But it also had a reflection in Parliament. Its reflection, which is difficult to describe - especially in such a short speech - by means of statistics, but can be described by reference to names. In the first place, Mr Niesiołowski sat for two terms... [[Thank you very much.]] ...and insulted, constantly, unpunishedly, the representatives of the opposition who spoke from this place. [[You insulted me.]] [[Who showed the finger?]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński: Mrs Skowronska, I ask for peace. Member Jarosław Kaczyński: This insult was part of some sociotechnic, sociotechnic difamation. Difamation, discrediting the opposition, discrediting the public, showing that it is not legal, that it should not actually exist. But that name, the name of Mr Niesiołowski, is not the only one here. In the Civic Platform, and later with the Civic Platform, there was a guy named Palikot. What was happening in connection with his activity has been going through all measures not only of political culture... [[But we're not talking about him.]] ...which you destroyed, but also broke all the rules of Polish culture. Such heroes of this difamation-discrediting action were here much, much more. Breaking the rules was extreme, I repeat: nagminne. [[By the opposition back then.]] And the whole time you thought it was okay. There were five Marshals of the Seym during your reign. [[And that's why you're breaking the rules for this term now?]] I must say that one of them behaved, well, more or less decently, sitting here opposite me, Marshal Schetyna, but it was just a little over a year, all the rest was one great misfortune, the misfortune of Polish democracy. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Wow! Gregory.]] [[Thank you.]] The misfortune of Polish democracy. In short, the moral right to say anything here in these matters, to put these issues in order to file a motion to dismiss Mr. Marshal, you do not have. But let's move on to the modern plane. Here you can refer to numbers. The number of questions has increased two and a half times, the same is not wrong, but the number of questions asked incorrectly - more than six times. [[What do you mean, wrong?]] The number of formal proposals has almost doubled, of course compared to the relevant periods of the previous term of office... [[Can't that be folded?]] ...only 74% of which is informal. Informal means incorrect. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we need to look for the words that describe this. This is a phenomenon known from the parliaments of the world, that is, parliamentary obstruction. [[Applause, ringtone]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] You guys are just practicing parliamentary obstruction here. But this parliamentary obstruction is also evoking a certain image... [[Time!]] ...a picture of a dictatorship... [[Time's up.]] ...and the dictator you were talking about and you want to cancel, but I don't think you know how. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Time's up.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Financial penalty.]] [[That's what I'm saying.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, time has passed, so just one more word. [[Voice from the room: Time, financial punishment.]] It's an honor and a great pleasure to have you here... [[It's been 35 seconds.]] [[Finish it, finish it.]] ...to protect a man so honest, so simple... [[Just like you.]] ...like Marshal Kuchciński. A man who walked the straight way all the time... [[Same as you.]] ...against all that you represent... [[Come on, come on, come on, ……]] ...against evil, against corruption, against scandals... [[Uh-huh.]] ...against all that I once called here in sharp words from this speaker. [[Mr. Marshal, take his voice.]] I'm not gonna say this again because I was in opposition at the time, and now I'm in charge, so it's not okay for me, but I repeat... [[Time!]] ...the marshal will not be called off, we will be against it. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u9	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Prime Minister. At the same time, I feel obliged to inform the High House that I considered it highly appropriate to allow Mr Kaczyński to speak for a longer time. [[Applause]] In Mr Lenz's speech, if I'm not mistaken, the name of Prime Minister Kaczyński was much more frequent... [[So what?]] [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...than the name of Marshal Kuchciński. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Read the rules.]] In view of this, I ask this time to take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba from the Civic Platform Club. [[But Mr. Marshal...]] And I ask Mrs Skowronska to allow her club colleague to speak. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, concentrate on your work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Your appearance is turning the cat's tail. This request of the Civic Platform has no historical value, like your judgments that you publish lately, but is real. The absence of a reaction from Vice-Marshal Brudziński to the extension of President Kaczyński's speech for more than one minute is an example of how objective, how unreliable you treat the Members of the opposition. Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński: Trust me, I'll give you a chance, too. You're welcome. Member Michael Szczerba: You voted - along with Marshal Terletki and Marshal Kuchciński - for punishing me with 2.5 thousand. The zloty you took off of my parliamentary appointment just because I extended my speech by 27 seconds. Dear Marshal, Maciej Rataj, Wiesław Chrzanowski, Maciej Płażyński were marshals in this House. Many fantastic marshals of the Second and Third Republic built the authority of the Sejm. They cared over divisions about his good name and social prestige, about the trust of Poles. Today in this building they have halls of their name and commemorative plaques. Their lives have earned their respect and memory. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! You could have followed this path, appreciating that political developments, for many unexpectedly, brought you to the dignity of another person in the state. You've chosen a different path. By trampling on the constitution, laws, regulations, and good parliamentary customs, you were inclined to engage in a party fight for absolute power, you were inclined to the plan formulated by an ideologist and a demiurge of your political environment. Mr. Marshal, I am saying this with absolute regret, you are the most partying, most biased marshal of the last 27 years. To uphold the rights and dignity of the Sejm, you have replaced the party's interests in a state of integrity. [[Applause]] You have turned responsible concern for the common good into the well-known availability mentioned by Professor Jadwiga Stanishkis. As with most of your party's politicians, your liking to the President has become your most important objective in public activity. It's a sad thing about this citizens' platform proposal. It is your duty to ensure that all Members have the same conditions for exercising their mandate. Unequal treatment, financial penalties, disabling the microphone, preventing Members of the opposition from exercising their mandate and, legally guaranteed, asking questions and submitting formal requests - you are doing so. A few questions, Mr. Marshal. It's worth hearing the answer. What action did you take on the crime that took place in this Chamber when Mrs Kukiz 15 voted in four hands when she elected the judge of the tribunal? Why did the Civic Platform have to file this case with the D.A.'s office? What action have you taken on the disgraceful opinions of the Sejm, the Supreme Court judges, that this is a team of guys? Why did the Civic Platform have to report this matter to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union? Your nearly a year's worth of work makes you unworthy of being a marshal. [[Applause]] You led me to believe that the former Marshal of the Seym, Mrs. Ewa Kopacz, had to publicly ask the dramatic question for you: What has happened to you? [[Applause]] [[Dude.]] You embarrassed the declared democratic package before he came in before you presented him. Worst of all... Mr Lenz has already presented numerous violations of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform presents the candidacy of Mr Rafał Grupiński, an experienced parliamentarians, a man of high personal culture and political maturity, dialogue and respect for the law. [[Applause]] This House needs a marshal to restore its rightful authority. You've painfully proven, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure that this function has simply outgrown you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u11	Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President Kaczyński's statement shows that he would have seen Grzegorz Schetyn more in the marshal's place than he would have seen Mr Grupiński. At least that's how I felt about it. [[Applause]] [[Oh, really...]] And the second thing is: President Kaczyński's statement shows that he sees politics as a personal dispute. He does not like Mr Niesiołowski, and he likes Grzegorz Schetyn. So he sees it as a cockfight, not a fight on a case. I don't understand what else you're fighting about. Mr. Marshal! I am fully aware that the outcome of today's vote is doomed... [[It's been said.]] ...because none of the PiS will want to call off such an obedient marshal as Mr Marek Kuchciński. [[Applause]] But it's not about the flaws or the advantages of a particular person. This is about the rhythm of the proceedings. What is it really about the Polish Parliament? Namely, the point is that we should pay attention to the quality of the law; how Parliament works; how the opposition is treated; what time it is to analyse whether there are errors in the law, whether this law solves the problem; whether and how the rules of the Sejm, which the Marshal should observe so much; whether the use of parliamentary language, or the language of culture which should emanate in this parliament is respected; whether aggression is permitted or restricted, whether it is allowed to vote on two hands or whether it is not seen whether the Sejm is afraid of media control or whether it is transparent. And unfortunately, in all these areas, Mr. Marshal... But this is not about your Marshal Marek Kuciński, who is very nice, but does not pass the exam because it is a system of government management by the PiS. This principle is very simple and it is not the fault of Marshal Marek Kuchciński himself, because if he did not act as he does, he would not have the chance to be a marshal. Either you obey and break the rules or you're gone. Unfortunately, the way the Sejm is managed perfectly reflects how the PiS manages the state: on rhyme, not listening to anyone, dividing Poles and now the opposition, on better and worse. President Jarosław Kaczyński had 1.5 extra minutes, and others get punishment for exceeding the time by 20 seconds. Are these equal rules of play? Are the equal rules of the game based on the fact that it pushes at night without giving the opposition a voice at all, laws that then turn out to be legal bulls? Are these equal rules of the game when you turn a blind eye to scams that are made by your own, and then there's no way to find surveillance? And all this just to stay at the stool. I'm just going to quote a few words from your marshal to illustrate what it was like to work in the Sejm in the last less than a year. 22 December 2015: 50 minutes should be enough for you - these are the words of the marshal so that Members can prepare themselves well for the second reading of the draft Constitutional Court Act. Let me remind you: for 10 months you have not been able to make a single bill in this case. 22 July 2016: I inform you that even if I are threatened to refer my case to the Rules of Procedure Committee, I will no longer allow questions or formal proposals to be asked. 22 May 2016 A resolution on sovereignty was then placed on the agenda on the same day, and I will remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm state that this must be notified by the previous day at the latest. 21, otherwise it cannot be considered. The Marshal of the Sejm, as a result of pressure, breaks the rules and introduces. 10 June 2016 There was a discussion on the candidacy of Professor Glapiński as head of NBP. Suddenly, Jarosław Kaczyński appears on the speaker, who speaks in completely irregular mode, and, of course, the marshal, paralyzed, gives him time, just as Marshal Brudziński had just been paralyzed. I saw your paralyzed face, how much more time Jarosław Kaczyński needs. He doesn't respect parliamentary culture at all. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] To the rude reaction towards the Pomaska messenger: get off this platform, sit down, woman one - I quote that it is not mine - get off this platform, because I will help you right away... [[Do you remember how Professor Pavlowicz was treated? Rysiek, remember?]] We're not on you. [[Don't get your hopes up.]] Let me remind you that those were words from your side that were unresponsive. [[Applause]] Marshal Terlecki, because you're all colleagues during the meeting on the Constitutional Tribunal Act, says, "Get out of here, get out of this podium." And that doesn't happen to you at all. I can't remember the reaction to Mr Piotr Pyzik showing the middle finger. I don't know if he's still here with that finger. [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] There it is. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that with this management of the Sejm, [[♪ The bell ♪]] - I've got one and a half minutes. [[Applause]] - we're not capable of creating a good law. If we're doing something together, give the opposition time sometimes, because it might ask if you're definitely wrong. [[We're not on you.]] The progress is that we listen to the voices of others, that maybe we make a mistake, and we don't go to the rhyme, saying, "We won't go back one step at a time." The Seym releases a whole bunch of legal books. Why? Because there's no good work here because it's not organized. And why is she misorganized? Because you don't know how to organize this job. [[We're not on you.]] It's just a group of dilemmas. Ladies and gentlemen, if we're run by incompetent people, our country will roll over. This is the case in the government, unfortunately it is in the companies of the State Treasury and so it is in the Sejm. It's a pity about Poland. We will vote in favour of the cancellation of Marshal Kuchciński, who is very sympathetic anyway. [[Applause]] [[Says the guy who talks about the feast of six kings. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I believe I have explained to the High House why I have decided to extend Mr Kaczyński's time. On the other hand, I inform you, Mr President, that this stupor, in which you The speech introduced me, also gave you 50 seconds extra time. [[But why comment?]] Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For a long time Mr. Marek Kuchciński has liked to emphasize that since his youth he has been called Penelope, supposedly in honor of loyalty to the principles. After nine months - I think it's not just me - watching the work of Mr. Marshal in the role he plays, it's more associated with Eryda, I'll remind you: the Greek goddess of discord and chaos. As President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz rightly said a few weeks ago, freedom to exercise a mandate, the right to exercise a mandate is an obligation to ask questions and express opinions. By brutally refusing to allow Members of the opposition to ask questions on 22 July, you have challenged, Mr Marshal, the standards of conducting proceedings and proceeding in this House. We observe: if we allow such a precedent, if there is a permit in this House to deprive Members of their votes, it will soon turn out that pluralism or public debate is no longer in place, and only the PiS-Polish front of national unity remains. But not only do you, Members, limit the Marshal's ability to operate in the Sejm. Further restrictions on journalists working here bring to mind countries where power separates from citizens with a tight wall and deprives them of their right to reliable information about themselves. Perhaps such behaviour should not be surprising in the case of a politician who avoids media like fire. Only, Marshal, why do such restrictions meet those willing to visit the Sejm? You don't have to look far, it was a few days ago. I can't ignore the problem that affects all of us in this room, regardless of party membership. Continuous and permanent changes to the date of the Sejm's deliberations, extension of meetings or, as today, shortening them by 1 day makes it difficult for Members to work in the electoral district and often makes it impossible for them to plan rationally. Same thing about the Sejm's schedule. Today's appointment at the hour. 22.30 time for information on the situation in agriculture is something derogatory to this environment. Who's at the hour? 22.30 will he be able to devote himself and be interested in the Sejm's deliberations? [[You.]] It should be recalled that you did not allow a project by the Polish People's Party to commemorate the victims of the May bombing to be held by the Sejm. It is worth pointing out here that 90 years after this event, the Polish People's Party still stands where it stood - against governments of dubious quality of public life Sanctification, is guarding democratic and constitutional order. You, Mr. Marshal, in turn - just like the power in Poland in the Maya - rumble from the political life of the opposition. Let us remind you how, during the express night voting on the appeal of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, you did not agree with the marshals for the breaks enabling Members to read the content of the laws. Let us remind you how you did not ask for the opinion of the committee responsible or the Legislative Office to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Let us remind you of how, on a highly questionable basis, you have punished Marshal Thomas Lenz, preventing him from filing a formal application and imposing a severe financial penalty on him. Let us remind you of the four-hand vote that has already been mentioned here today, that you refused the marshal to release the surveillance footage that would resolve any doubts. But enough reminders, time for reflection and warning. Conducting discussions with the grace of an elephant in the composition of porcelain is not appropriate in this House. As part of a good change, you break the accepted principle and the good custom wherever possible, unfortunately also here in this Chamber. This cannot be allowed, even if seymphoric arithmetic reveals otherwise what we are aware of. You will be remembered as the marshal who fanned the Sejm's rules, pushed the bill on your knees and received the voice of the opposition. High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the motion to dismiss Marshal Marek Kuchciński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u15	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The application for cancellation of Marshal Marek Kuchciński's Sejm is a classic example of propaganda hucpa, an example of seymous obstruction. [[Joy in the Chamber]] What's going on with the applicants? About taking the time of Parliament? [[Who's talking?]] He's not a marshal, he's a P.O. and a modern pernamentally... [[Permanently, permanently, Member.]] ...is violating the basic principle of parliamentary work. [[Applause]] [[Vote for four hands.]] We're here to argue. Should the legislative power of the Sejm be ignored in the name of the uncritical support of the Constitutional Tribunal, which itself does not respect the laws and constitutions? The charges you're making against the marshal are extremely relevant to you yourselves. Please look in the mirror. [[Start with you.]] The truth is, Mr. Marshal didn't do his job once... [[Start with you.]] ...but that's not in your motion. This was when the Members of the PO, Kukiz, 15, Modern and PSL, who were present in the sitting room, tried, fortunately unsuccessfully, to terminate their deliberations. [[You helped by voting for two hands.]] In the vote on the appointment of Judge Prof. Zbigniew Jędrzejewski, breaking the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Art. 7 (4) Members of these groups have taken out the ballot cards ostensibly. [[From me!]] And therefore, the Warchol act, so the obvious violation of the Seym rules, the Marshal didn't draw any consequences, you got away with it. The State of the applicant, you are acting like angry dogs who bite your gracious hand. [[Applause]] [[What language? It's a real shame to use such a language.]] Around the Free and Solidarnia, pointing out to the marshal that failure to fulfil his duties, he will vote against the cancellation of an understanding guide from our High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[On four hands!]] [[On two hands, two hands!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u17	I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. Members of Parliament, please allow the Member to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In support of the request to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm, Members of the Civic Platform refer to the article. 10 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which refers to the competence of the marshal, among others. the duty to uphold the rights and dignity of the Sejm, as well as to keep the work of the Sejm and its organs on track and timely. This very important and responsible task is difficult to achieve under conditions which he tries to impose in the course of parliamentary work so-called. Total opposition. Instead of substantive statements and fact-based criticisms, we observe obstructive actions, such as constantly pointless requests for a break in meetings, giving tirades with ad personam arguments in time for asking questions or removing cards during the vote. It is not possible to make a charge to the Sejm's marshal that, under such conditions, he is taking decisive but reasonable action to prevent the functioning of the Sejm from becoming destabilized. There is one advice for applicants - compare the way in which Marshal Kuchciński conducts his deliberations with what he presented during the term of Vice-Marshal Stefan Niesiołowski. [[Applause]] [[You have to start with each other, you have to start with a friend.]] Frederic: Know the proportions, ladies mocium, will be the best commentary here on the actions of the applicants. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote against this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[On two hands!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u19	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz, a non-associated Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am speaking as an unattached Member, but I am empowered to present our position on the appeal of Marshal Kuchciński on behalf of several colleagues, including non-attached Members, not of my own accord, Mr Huskowski and Mr Kaminski. The day for the inauguration of parliamentary work is always a special day that is remembered, whether we are debutantes or - like many in this House - once again we include the parliamentary mandate. And this was also the day of 12 November last year, when we were also honoured with the visit of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. We had the opportunity to hear his speech first before the oath, in which, as Mr Lenz mentioned, Mr Lenz said, the word Parliament comes from the word 'parallels' and, therefore, the Sejm, which is part of the parliament, is the place where it is said. It is therefore a place where there is debate, where there are also disputes. In the following part of his speech, the President called for the opposition to be respected in this House. I listened to that speech last night. I'm sure those were the words. Referring to these words of the President, following the election of the Marshal of the Sejm on 12 November, Mr Kuchciński made a kind of promise, or even more, an undertaking. He said: In fulfilling my duties as marshal, I will uphold the freedom of expression of Members regardless of party membership and the right to debate between the ruling camp, the majority ruling and opposition parties. Therefore, we are making a question from this place for you, Mr. Marshal Kuchciński. Why don't you respect the President's appeal from this speaker on 12 November, and why do you break your commitment publicly made before the people of this speaker also on 12 November? For the rejection of Members' votes, the exclusion from the deliberations, and especially, as during the last debate on the Constitutional Tribunal in July in this House, when you closed the discussion on the amendments, when you removed the right to ask questions in such a vital politically and socially important law, which is the law governing the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, is not the fulfilment of the obligation which you made here on 12 November from this stand. In addition, the night deliberations, including the committee's deliberations, the express pace of adoption of laws there, the examination of amendments simply taunts the principles of good legislative work, to which you have also committed yourself in your opening speech of the mission, to work as Marshal of the Sejm. Mr Kuchciński, on behalf of the three colleagues I represent here, three Members, two colleagues and myself, I want to say one thing. We respect your résumé, especially that thread that testified to your courage in the difficult and dark times of the '80s. We do not agree with your views, but we also respect them, but we demand respect for our views, for the views of the Members of the opposition. The best way to show this respect will be to treat Members equally; equal treatment should be given to Members of the governing coalition and opposition Members, and that, despite your own declarations, you simply do not respect it. We therefore do not accept the way in which you organise the work of the Sejm, this most important forum for political debate in our country, and therefore we will vote in favour of dismissing you from the role of Marshal of the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u21	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The motion for cancellation of Marshal Kuchciński is a typical political juggler, which has no chance, a typical political capisson. Marshal Kuchciński is neither a particularly better, unfortunately, nor a worse marshal than the Marshals in previous years, in previous terms, and these terms abounded in various examples, that I will mention the curiozical example of the behaviour of Vice-Marshal Niesiołowski as an example of such behaviours which are reprehensible. There is no big difference here in this context. On the other hand, on the occasion that there is a debate on Mr Kuchciński, I would like to appeal. I appeal to the marshal to take out the law abolishing the law on brother-in-law out of the freezer. Many people ask this question, many Poles expect this bill to be passed by this Sejm as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u23	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Since the vote was scheduled at 3 p.m. 12.15, I'm declaring a 10-minute technical break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 05 hours 12 min 18]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the parliamentary benches. ... Request for the removal of Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. Article 10a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm dismisses and elects the Marshal of the Sejm by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members in one vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to appeal from the function of Marshal Marek Kuchciński and the election of Mr Rafał Grupiński to the Marshal of the Sejm, will want to raise his hand and press the button. [[Sorry, it's not working.]] [[Learn how to operate.]] [[Put your card in.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's not working.]] [[Voice from the room: It's already working.]] [[It's not working.]] [[It's not working. These machines don't work.]] [[It's not working.]] [[Grzesiek, put it in here. Just a minute.]] [[What? It's not working.]] [[Well, it doesn't work, it doesn't work.]] 431 Members took part in the vote. The absolute majority is 216. The votes cast in favour - 169, against - 234, were suspended by 28 Members. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to dismiss Mr Marek Kuchciński from the function of Marshal of the Sejm and the election of Mr Rafał Grupiński as Marshal of the Sejm. Congratulations, Mr. Marshal, and thank you kindly. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 20 hours 12 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification (prints Nos 713 and 754). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification The Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies considered two of its meetings. At its first meeting, the committee examined the first five chapters and adopted without amendment 51 articles except one, Article. 28, which is contained in chapter 5. She left the matter to be resolved by the article. 28 for the next committee meeting. At its next meeting on 21 July this year. The committee first adopted the so-called. cleaning notes, comments submitted by the Legislative Office of the Sejm, then left to settle the article. 28 together with the amendment and all other 89 articles contained in the final chapters 8, 9 and 10. Amendments... these articles were adopted together with 10 amendments. High Izbo! Following consideration of the Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification, the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies recommends that the High House adopt the law as proposed in the report, which was delivered to ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's printing No 754. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to the High House the position of my club on the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification contained in the report of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology, print No 754. It has been almost 1.5 months since my first reading, so I will briefly remind the High House of a few facts. First of all, on 3 April 2014 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the The European Parliament has adopted a draft Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and public trust services in relation to e-commerce in the internal market. This regulation operates under the name eIDAS. Secondly, that Regulation repeals Directive 1993/93/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 1999 on a Community framework for electronic signatures and legislation of individual Member States as from 1 July of this year. Thirdly, unlike the Directive, this regulation applies directly and regulates the problem equally throughout the European Union, hence the obvious need to seek legal solutions that would satisfy the regulation I have invoked. I will remind the High House that the aim of the eIDAS regulation was to increase confidence in electronic activities between citizens, businesses and public authorities, which is consequently intended to contribute to the development of electronic services, e-business, e-commerce throughout the Union. Back to the committee's report, it must be said that a number of changes of an editorial, ordering or cleaning nature have been introduced during the work on the government bill, as I have just said, using the wording used by the legislators. In addition, the wording of the Article is clarified. On the first day of the committee's work on the text of the draft law, the 28 dispute was raised. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (5) indicates that a request for immediate cancellation of a qualified certificate will only be possible in justified cases. I still have to mention a number of modifications to certain amending provisions, e.g. with regard to the Road Transport Act of 6 September 2001 or the Law of 22 June 2016 amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws. The amendments concerned the need to adapt the provisions in force to the terminology contained in this draft law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft law on trust services and electronic identification contained in Seym printing No 754. At the same time, on behalf of the club, pursuant to Article. 45 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, I propose amendments to the bill which I will hand to you marshal. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would also like to inform you of support for this government project. We'll vote in favour. The draft law on trust services and electronic identification, both print No 713 and print No 754, is a project that modifies and complements something that should, in fact, already be defined by legislative means. As Mr Czarnecki has just said, the reality of European law has already entered into force, in principle, on the basis of principles related to the so-called. eIDAS, i.e. the conditions for efficient electronic identification and trust services for individuals, have been created. During this debate before the holiday break, we talked about the fact that, of course, switching paper documents to electronics is not only a necessary process, but a process that is extremely desirable for economic reasons, for reasons of transparency, ease of access to electronic services. This is also part of the task that is ahead of us. We have discussed this in the context of complementing this particular project with actions that will eliminate or enable the use of similar electronic identification to companies, institutions, and thus legal entities. I remind you of this commitment, because we also heard it from officials representing the Ministry of Digitalization. Let me remind you that we have September, because the September deadline has fallen as a continuation of the work also in this segment. I hope that we will actually bring about the full equivalence of these electronic documents and their identification, and I am thinking about e-seals, digital solutions, paper documents. I am glad that it is September, because that means that we will have even more work, not just support for this document, which we have before us today, the government document contained in prints 713 and 754. Thank you and hope for further work and cooperation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to inform you that regarding the government's draft law on trust services and the identification of the electronic recommendation of our club will be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. As a reminder, the Council of Ministers adopted a draft law on trust services and electronic identification submitted by the Minister for Development. The project is the first stage of the preparation of Poland for the application of the EU Regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market. The Regulation aims to harmonise trust services and supervisory rules and to allow mutual recognition of electronic identification measures, in particular by public sector bodies. During the committee's work, the Posel Club The modern submitted numerous comments to the presented project, unfortunately only a few of which were included in the new version of the project. Among the remaining shortcomings of this project are the following. The bill is already in the article. 1 excludes its application to all signatures that have been purchased commercially, although the explanatory memorandum states that the eIDAS Regulation extends the range of services available and requires Member States to establish supervision. It means that this law should also apply to signatures already purchased. The bill is still imprecise in many places. We are talking about provisions on trust services, Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5. Where and what are they? Use of certificates, Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. By whom? What is the scope of application? What is a certification policy, Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, service policy developed on the basis of standards and standards? We don't know what it is either. The Act will lead to the discretion of the issuing of decisions on entry in the register of a trust service provider or services provided by it, Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, and deletion from it, Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Any action by the Ministry of Digitalization in the event of the detection of unlawful action, Article. 31. It is at least strange to impose an obligation on the NBP to implement it. Why NBP? Wouldn't it be better, for example? National CERT? He's a little closer to the subject. A decision may be left to designate an implementing entity in the Ministry of Digitalization without entering NBP in the Act. Although a qualified trust service provider is required to have insurance, Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 opens the path to providing services without this insurance. The question is who will pay the users for their losses. A qualified trust service provider shall be required to store documents and data for up to 20 years from the date of their manufacture. There is no strong enough justification for such a long period. It will be linked to the costs of the supplier, which will, after all, affect the prices of the certificates themselves. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 42 penalties are described in the amount expressed in zlotys, independent of the income of the trader. To recognise the Ministry of Digitalization, the amount of the penalty is left, which may lead to abuse of the Ministry of Digitalization. Penalties are provided for a qualified trust service provider. So we have a situation where prison punishment can be imposed on a company that is a qualified supplier. Due to the mentioned shortcomings of the Posel Club Modern is in favour of sending the bill back to work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u33	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law on trust services and electronic identification on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. Today, the revised draft law on trust services and electronic identification is the implementation of Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and public trust services in respect of electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. So far, only the electronic signature institution, especially the secure electronic signature, and time marking, have been fully regulated in Polish law. The eIDAS Regulation extends the range of services available and requires Member States to establish supervision of them - speaking of e-seals, e-service, seal and signature maintenance and validation service, i.e. verification of their validity. The aim of the Digitalisation Ministry will be to ensure the functioning of the national trust infrastructure, which consists of: a trusted list, a national trust service certification centre, a register of trust service providers. The national certification centre operating within the NBP will issue certificates for qualified trust service providers. The regulation will also introduce new concepts. They will use terms such as a qualified electronic signature, it will replace a secure electronic signature verified by an important qualified certificate, and a qualified electronic time stamp. In addition, the Regulation will introduce an electronic identification notification mechanism for the provision of online services. A user of electronic identification issued in one Member State of the European Union will be able to use public online services in another EU country. All these changes are extremely needed in the era of e-state and e-economy development. Unifying and clarifying these issues at EU level will improve administrative work and speed up the development of the online business sector. Moreover, the transnational aspect is important, and our citizens will be able to benefit more easily and more safely from these safeguards outside Poland, in other Member States. The law under review is the first step towards the implementation of the directive, which is certainly right and necessary. Therefore, the PSL Parliamentary Club is in favour of directing the project to further work on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u35	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Ireneus, for profit, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification together with the report of committees, prints 713 and 754. This draft law aims to implement European Union law, i.e. Council Regulation No 910/2014 on electronic identification called eIDAS. The main objective of this regulation is to increase confidence in the electronic form of dealing with matters by citizens and businesses with public administrations. The proposed law - after its adoption - will replace the Electronic Signature Act, which, in the light of the development of modern technologies and, above all, changes in socio-economic relations, is no longer sufficient. The current regulation included safe electronic signature and time marking. The Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification follows the eIDAS Regulation by introducing regulations on both electronic signature and other trust services such as electronic seal, electronic time stamp, registered electronic service service, website authentication. Ensuring the security of citizens communicating with state institutions via the network and increasing their confidence in a country that does not only make it difficult, but responds to citizens' expectations, should be an absolute priority. This is all the more important, the more the development of digitalisation renders existing legal solutions obsolete. The eIDAS regulation will have a huge impact on the development of entrepreneurship in the European Union, which is why making full use of the opportunities it brings will be a key issue for Polish economic operators above all. At the same time, it is important to ensure that innovation in state action in the field of digitalisation is not at the expense of people so-called. Digitally excluded, she did not discriminate against those who were not lacking in Poland today. The possibility of using electronic identification means, although more convenient, perhaps even safer and cheaper, should, for the time being, complement the use of paper documentation. However, its use for the electronic circulation of documents should be gradually restricted. In the context of recent events related to the PESEL database leakage, the security of personal data and the security of online services should be a very important element both for further work on the implementation of the eIDAS Regulation and for the supervision of the application of these provisions of the Minister of Digitalisation. The civil liability of the trust service provider should be proportionate to the importance of the data at its disposal and the risks that may arise from their irresponsible or unlawful use. A thorough verification of all participants in the electronic marketing of documents is needed. This is not just a technical problem. The law must effectively protect citizens from the risk of abuse without creating excessive obstacles to the functioning of the system. Given the opportunities arising from the implementation and adaptation of the eIDAS Regulation under the conditions of the Polish legal system, as well as the issues mentioned above, the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the draft law on trust services and electronic identification submitted by the Ministry of Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Beat Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: I will try to make it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government. Namely, the project is of course very appropriate, it concerns the implementation of the EU Regulation on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market, which will undoubtedly harmonise, harmonise trust services and supervisory rules and allow mutual recognition of electronic identification measures, especially by public sector institutions. My question is precisely the issue of the possibility of filing documents... This will be changed, the name: secure electronic signature in the name: qualified electronic signature. However, this does not fully address the freedom of public bodies to use trust services because of the need to sign these documents further. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A significant facilitation would be the introduction of the so-called. electronic seal, which virtually eliminates the need to sign documents. My question is: Has the electronic seal been omitted, and for what reasons, or does the designers provide for this possibility to be introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u39	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm answering the question. It also partially concerns the comments made by one of the clubs previously presented. It also applies, it may also apply to those entities which have already purchased signatures before that law becomes applicable. So we have transitional provisions in the article. 129, which say that the signatures purchased earlier are valid. On the other hand, if the matter concerns a stamp, both the law and the regulation make it possible to apply that stamp, the law does not prohibit the use of such a stamp.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u41	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law on works concession contracts or services (prints Nos 612 and 752). I ask Mr Waldemar Olejniczak to submit a report to the committee. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the bill on the works concession or service contract. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has changed the title of the project by adopting the number of single words "the Agreement." The draft law was adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 21 July this year. The text submitted is the result of the work of the subcommittee which was held at three meetings between 5 and 19 July. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, there was a substantive discussion which resulted in the proposed and adopted 20 changes in order in relation to the submitted government print project No 612. A significant part of these changes is aimed at adapting the draft law to the quite extensive revision of the Public Procurement Law adopted on 22 June. Other changes are clear, legislative and are the result, among others. comments submitted by the Legislative Bureau. The proposed law constitutes the implementation into Polish law of Directive 2014/23 of the European Union on the award of concessions and will replace the 2009 law on works concessions or services. The submitted project will complement the implementation of the Polish Public Procurement Package. The purpose of the concession contract law is to ensure transparent and competitive rules for the selection of a concessionaire while ensuring the maximum permissible flexibility directives. The draft law submitted regulates four main issues: the scope of the law, the procedures for concluding concession contracts, concession contracts, in particular the scope of admissible amendments, and appeals and judicial proceedings in matters of concessions. At this point, I would like to stress that there is a fundamental difference between traditional public contracts and concession contracts. Unlike typical public contracts, concessions should be understood to mean contracts in which the economic risk of the project is assumed by the contractor. In principle, the concession holder does not receive remuneration directly from the Contracting Authority but obtains the right to operate a building or to provide services covered by the concession. In principle, therefore, the concession holder must ensure that he/she has adequate income. Any payment from the Contracting Authority may only be incidental. This fundamental difference makes the structure of concession contracts more complex than typical public procurement contracts. The concession contracts will most often serve public-private partnership projects. This justifies a different approach of the EU legislator to shape the procedures for selecting a public contract contractor and the choice of a concessionaire. The procedures for the selection of a concessionaire are much more formalised than those for typical public procurement. Therefore, the project also provides for simplified procedures for the selection of concession holders. The Contracting Authority will be able to arrange the procedure for the selection of the concessionaire in such a way as it considers convenient, while maintaining the rules of conduct, i.e. fair competition, equal treatment of economic operators, proportionality and transparency. The principle will be to conclude concession contracts after publication of the concession notice: in the Public Procurement Bulletin - in the case of contracts with a value of 30 thousand. EUR up to 5225 000 EUR, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the case of concessions with a value of 5225 000. Euros. Only exceptionally, in three well-defined cases, it will be possible to conclude a concession contract without notice: in the case of a concession contract concluded with only one contractor; in the case of the acquisition of a work of art or artistic execution; where the earlier proceedings did not lead to the selection of the offer. Expanded scope of the bill compared to the Directive. The proposed law in relation to Directive 2014/23/EU has a broader scope, as it also covers the water and sewage sector and collective transport. The extension of the scope of this law is driven by the need to introduce uniform, transparent and competitive rules for the selection of concession holders also in these two sectors. In-house concession. The draft law provides that the conclusion of in-house concessions, i.e. the conclusion of contracts between the contracting authority and the audited entity, will be excluded from the scope of application of the law. Such a model is faithful to the model adopted in the EU Directive. Leaving the model provided for in the Directive is a different option than the one adopted in the revision of the Public Procurement Law. The Public Procurement Law provides for the award of in-house contracts on a stand-alone basis. It should be stressed that the solution adopted in the revision of the Public Procurement Law is a derogation from the model provided for in the Public Procurement Directives. It was dictated by a particular need to balance the grounds for excluding in-house contracts from the scope of the Public Procurement Law and requests to withdraw from the implementation of the in-house rules in the Public Procurement Law. This is particularly important on the basis of traditional public procurement, since the contractor receives remuneration without, in principle, bearing the economic risk associated with the performance of the contract. However, the concession holder bears this risk and therefore the acquisition of the concession itself does not constitute a guarantee of profit from the activities covered by it. Consequently, the award of a concession is more similar to the indication of the entity to perform a specific task, as is the case when a subordinate entity is entrusted with certain tasks on a general basis, i.e. permission to extend the activity of a municipal company on the basis of a resolution of a local government unit, and sometimes even permission to carry out a certain business activity, such as: the performance of the tasks of the budgetary institutions in favour of parent undertakings and units subordinate to parent undertakings. Procedures for the selection of concession holders. As I have already mentioned, the procedures for concluding concession contracts are only regulated in a framework. According to the draft law, the contracting authority will be able to conduct the procedure together with the announcement in two basic ways: firstly, in response to the concession notice, all the economic operators concerned shall submit tenders together with information for the purpose of assessing compliance with the selection criteria, which is similar to an unlimited tender, secondly, in response to the concession notice, all the economic operators concerned shall submit requests to participate in the procedure together with information for assessing compliance with the selection criteria, and then invite them to submit tenders or to negotiate and tender for economic operators, which is similar to a limited tender or negotiation with a notice. The third, but only exceptional, method will be to initiate proceedings without announcement and negotiate with selected contractors. Such a procedure will only be allowed in specific cases if, for example, The concessionaire will be entitled to exclusive rights, i.e. when there are no other contractors. The grounds for exclusion of economic operators will be modelled on the rules of the revised Public Procurement Law. The mandatory grounds for exclusion from proceedings will primarily concern criminal offences. Other grounds for exclusion will be optional. The project shall also include rules on ensuring the impartiality of persons carrying out activities on the contracting side. Where the impartiality of the conductors is questionable, they will be excluded from the proceedings. A concession contract. The draft law does not provide for detailed regulation of the content of the concession contract. In addition, the proposal only provides for general rules following Directive 2014/23 of the European Union. As a rule, contracts will only be able to be concluded for a limited period of up to 5 years. If the duration of the contract is to exceed 5 years, the duration of the concession contract will not be able to exceed that period during which the concession holder may reasonably expect the recovery of the investment for the execution of construction works or the provision of services together with the return of the capital invested. This solution aims to eliminate the possibility of concluding contracts for too long a period which for years would exclude competition between undertakings concerned by the performance of concessions. The provisions of the project include, as is the revision of the Public Procurement Law, comprehensive provisions specifying the circumstances and scope of the admissible changes to contracts. For example, minor changes to contracts will be allowed, with provisions setting out in detail which changes are considered to be significant. According to Directive 2014/23 of the European Union, the draft law also provides the same as in the revised Public Procurement Law the basis for the contracting authority's termination of the contract, e.g. where there was a modification of the concession contract requiring a new concession contract procedure or the concession holder at the time of the conclusion of the concession contract was excluded and yet the contracting authority did not exclude it, e.g. He didn't know. Appeal procedures. The proposed law amends the system of legal remedies in the area of concessions in relation to the 2009 law. In place of the current administrative road, it is proposed to adopt the legal protection system provided for in the Public Procurement Law, i.e. appeal against the contracting act to the National Board of Appeal and a complaint to the district court. Such a system is more appropriate than judicial review given the substantive similarity between ordinary public contracts and concessions. It should be noted that under EU law, the concession area is subject to the same appeal rules as traditional public contracts, and therefore the compatibility of the Polish law with the appeal directives can be best ensured by extending the provisions of the Public Procurement Law to concession contracts as well. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the proposed bill on concession contracts for construction works or services as developed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[Waldek, back!]] Mr President, you are speaking on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, in print Nos 612 and 752, concerning the adoption by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of a draft law on works concessions or services. The project was adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 21 July this year. The draft submitted is the result of the work of the subcommittee, which I had the honour of chairing and which was sitting at three meetings between 5 and 19 July. During the work of the subcommittee and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, there was a substantive discussion which resulted in 20 changes proposed in relation to government printing No 612. An important part of these amendments, as well as the entire law, is aimed at adapting the draft law to the act adopted on 22 June this year. Public procurement laws. The proposed law constitutes the implementation into Polish law of Directive 2014/23 of the European Union on the award of concessions and will replace the 2009 law on works concessions or services. The aim of the Act is to ensure transparent and competitive rules for the selection of a concessionaire while ensuring the maximum possible flexibility directives, because, as we know, there is a fundamental difference between traditional public contracts and works concession contracts or services. Unlike typical public procurement by the concession, contracts which the contractor assumes the risk of the project, i.e. The concession holder does not receive remuneration directly from the Contracting Authority, but receives the right to operate a building or provide services covered by the concession, so the concession holder must ensure his own income. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has given a positive opinion on the draft law together with the amendments made. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends the adoption of a draft law on works concession contracts or services and will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Anthony the Husband, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u46	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the report of the committee on the government draft law on works concession contracts or services, print Nos 612 and 752. The draft law on works concession contracts or services aims at implementing the 2014 concession directive into the Polish legal order. On the one hand, this directive is characterised by simplification of the public procurement directives, on the other hand it contains a large part of identical rules. We recently adopted an amendment to the Public Procurement Law implementing two public procurement directives of 2014, namely the Classical Directive and the Sectoral Directive. The opposition, and especially the Civic Platform Club, submitted a number of comments on this amendment related to limiting the competitiveness of the Polish market. We made various proposals for change at the time, but the ruling party rejected them, claiming that this narrower amendment should be adopted as soon as possible due to delays in the implementation of EU directives and that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government declared that a large government amendment to the Public Procurement Law, which would solve all these problems more comprehensively, would soon be sent to the Sejm. However, pending the submission of this Act, such a proposal has not appeared in the Seym, which in turn causes that in the present law this part of the provisions common to the public procurement directives and the concession directive has been rewritten from the approved Public Procurement Law, which significantly restricts the internal competitiveness of the Polish market. The Civic Platform Club has again tried to propose amendments in this area, but the governments did not allow it to be argued that the rules were consistent. In relation to the provisions separate from the Public Procurement Law and strictly related to concession contracts, the Civic Platform supports the solutions proposed by the Act as they are part of our programme and better address the issue of concessions than the existing solutions in the 2009 Act on works concessions or services, which will lose its power with the adoption of the Proceded Law. In the present law on concession contracts, the concession is the nature of the contract, a paid civil law contract, as opposed to the existing concession law, in which it is understood as an administrative authorisation to conduct business activities. The contested law gives greater freedom in the organisation of the concession contract procedure, determines the competent authority in matters governed by the law, precisely determines the risks of the award of the concession, contains a full catalogue of contracting authorities consistent with the Public Procurement Law, introduces rules on mixed concessions, introduces flexible solutions to promote the innovation of products and services, extends information obligations, improves the principles of transparency of the procedure, sets out a full catalogue of reasons for the obligation or possibilities of exclusion of economic operators. And many other advantages in comparison with the current solutions make it necessary to support this bill even the total opposition. The government project was actually a technical project strictly implementing the directive. However, it was a mess in terms of consistency with the Polish legal system, many regulations were not legal, but under the watchful eye of the Legal Office of the Sejm, they were able to correct all this during tedious meetings of the subcommittee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support the bill as submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u47	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are now discussing the project, the report of the committee on the government draft law on works concession contracts or services. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I'd like to discuss a few things here. At the beginning of my speech I will say that we as a club will support this way of thinking, we will support this law, we will support this philosophy of changing concessions and tenders in construction robots, but now I will describe why we are going in this direction. I'm an intern, I'm an architect, and I've been involved in the construction process for many years. What is the picture of Polish buildings today? After all, we had motorways, and on such investments our industry, our construction companies should develop - not only construction materials, but just those construction companies that used to be our pride, which were the driving wheel of our economy. Today we see that the highways did not only bring profit to our companies, it still caused the collapse of many construction companies. Today, the image of this industry is, in my opinion, quite deplorable. In order to get a contract normally on the market, companies participate in a very difficult public procurement procedure, often, very often today, large Western companies compete in these small projects, down there, in districts with our construction companies, are able to lower prices and compete in a way, in my opinion, unethical and dishonest, so that they earn somewhere in Europe on large projects and afford to strangle Polish companies that cannot grow and be, as I said, this flywheel, cannot employ new people, they cannot invest in a machinery park and in new technologies. And potential, knowledge is very big. Now we have been taking part in discussions around this law and it turns out that the industry wants this way of thinking, wants to go in this direction to accept concessions. Why? Because, as the rapporteur explained, it is simpler than public procurement, and most importantly, the appeals that are under this law are also less complicated, are simpler and clearer for construction companies. The basic question is: As an industry, as Polish construction companies, are we already ready to stand in the way of large Western companies, which have huge capital, huge lending, or are we able to compete with them on our market? If everything in Poland were normal, if we had developed since 1989 according to Polish thinking, with Polish national interest, then such construction companies would probably be today. And this is not just about how we would be doing on our market today, but also about how probably our construction companies, like they used to, would be doing very well in Libya, Turkey or neighbouring countries. So, as I said at the beginning, we as a Kukiz club15 will support this bill. I think that some small adjustments should be made there, because this is also due to the legal analyses that I have read, but in principle we are moving in this direction. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u49	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club regarding the draft law on works concession contracts or services. The aim of the Act is to implement into the Polish legal order the EU Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions, which we define by the concession directive, as well as other acts. The proposal broadly takes into account the amendment of the Public Procurement Law, which was the subject of parliamentary work, the Parliamentary Printing No 366, in particular as regards the provisions implementing the provisions of the concession directive mentioned earlier by me. The contested law applies to entities taking part in the concession contract procedure and which are parties to a concession contract for works or services, i.e. to the contracting authorities, contractors and concessionaires. This was the aim that we had and, as I say with satisfaction, also for other parliamentary clubs, was to introduce a transparent way of selecting concessionaires. It is very important that there should be no irregularities in this respect. What is worth emphasising - said the rapporteur - is that the specific features of concession projects or concession contracts are that it is the economic operators who bear all the financial risks of the project, so here really should be taken into account this characteristic feature of such contracts. The procedures for the selection of concession holders are happily more simplified than for public contracts. This is another important feature that we really care about. A number of substantive amendments have been made during the work of the subcommittee set up for the purpose of proceding this law. The work lasted quite a long time. They started in June and ended on 21 July this year. For this work, I would like to thank all the clubs for their substantive character. I am satisfied that, despite the often high temperature of political dispute, in some cases it is possible to work in substance, professionally, to ensure that the law in the Republic of Poland is properly established, understandable to the citizens and for the benefit of the Republic. I want to stress that we are not a total opposition and we will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u52	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would also like to announce that we will support this bill because the law is moving in the right direction. The rapporteur here has made a very broad statement of the advantages, benefits, the need for these solutions. The fact that this is a new law, that the 2009 law is being replaced today, is also important. I have such a reflection. I don't want to make all these arguments out of justification and repeat them here anymore, because we all know what's going on, but the procedure is important. Proceding over this law shows how it is possible to proceed well, because today we all say that it is a good law that we managed to eliminate all irregularities during the process. That's right, because you can do it, as part of the subcommittee. Whenever a subcommittee is set up, it is possible in a tedious way, as my predecessor here said, to refine good solutions, and then there are no problems at the committee meeting. On the other hand, if a difficult bill is being passed and it is created within the committee, then there is no chance to write a good project. Hence, many amendments are later tabled during the second reading, in the Senate and often need to be revised. Public works, public procurement have always aroused and aroused great controversy. It has not yet been possible to prepare an excellent law, excellent solutions in this area. These solutions are constantly improved, but the controversy and the chronic process over orders continue to take place. Any improvement of these solutions, i.e. the creation of clear and transparent rules and rules, is advisable as far as possible to eliminate these irregularities and, above all, accelerate them. As regards the law on construction works and services, it implements, implements European directives, which is important, so that these conditions of competitiveness are preserved within the European Union, while simplifying and providing opportunities for Polish companies to operate under good conditions. The Polish People's Party, as I said, your marshal, will support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Ireneus Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on works concession contracts or services, print No 752. This law is primarily intended to implement into Polish law the provisions of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions, which should increase the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the performance of works concessions or services. At the same time, irregular entrepreneurs who have violated their obligations under labour law and social security and environmental protection will be excluded from their participation in the implementation of concession contracts. In practice, this should increase the number of employees employed and thus the amount of social security contributions. The introduction of new instruments in the Polish economic turnover is to be welcomed. The draft law aims to reduce legal uncertainty when concluding concession contracts and facilitate the implementation of public-private projects in the areas of infrastructure and strategic services and to ensure the best possible ratio of quality to the price of concessions. Three procedures for the selection of concession holders are therefore introduced: a limited and unlimited tender and negotiations. Another instrument is the new rules for estimating the value of a works concession or service contract. The value of the concession contract is to be estimated by the contracting authority and the estimated value will consist of the total revenue of the concession holder obtained during the period of validity of the contract, without VAT. A positive impact on investment processes will be made by simpler and more transparent procurement rules through works concession contracts or services. According to them, the investor will be able to change the concession holder without having to issue a new tender. To this end, the project introduces a broad catalogue of possible changes to the works concession or service contract, including inter alia. the long-proposed law of intervention (step-in-right), i.e. the replacement of a failing concessionaire with a new concessionaire, without the need for a tendering procedure where such a procedure is foreseen at the initial stage of the implementation of the project. This is important for most projects in the form of public-private partnerships. Although the draft law lays down detailed rules and procedures for the conclusion of a concession for works or services, as well as legal protection measures and competent authorities in matters governed by the law, business environments make a number of critical comments. In their view, there are inconclusive terms in many places, which will therefore make the application of the law more difficult. Such inaccurate records can be found e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the draft law, where there is no solution, where the application is received later than indicated, and in the provisions relating to the principle of impartiality according to which the A good solution is a similar procedure as in Public Procurement Law to appeal to the National Board of Appeal and, further, possibly to the General Court. This will certainly improve the current administrative procedure. The clarification of in-house procurement rules should also be assessed positively. The Free and Solidarni Circle appreciates the draft law well, especially in the context of the impact on the increase in the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the performance of concession contracts. We share the view that, due to the simplification and flexibility of procedures, this law will increase employment in companies involved in projects in the construction sector and in the services sector. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Anyone else want to come up with a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions introduced by this Act should increase the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the performance of works concessions or services. I have a question about the regulation contained in the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 projects. According to it, the contracting authority may limit the number of economic operators it invites to participate in the concession contract procedure. This must be done in a transparent manner and on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria, with the number of contractors he intends to invite ensuring competition. The business environments in the course of the consultation of this project argued that such a provision is general and creates opportunities for abuse. They indicate that it is appropriate to allow as much as possible to ensure a fair choice of the most favourable notification [[♪ The bell ♪]] the number of performers. I would therefore like to ask the reasons for this legal solution, because I have doubts here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u57	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u58	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill on works concession contracts or services is a good and forward-looking project. It offers an opportunity to launch and implement investments without its own financial resources. The contractor, when investing, has the opportunity to carry out tasks without taking more risk. I have a question for your applicant: Can associations, producer groups or other groups not having a specific legal form be involved in this concession? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u59	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the time when it comes to consulting local authorities, construction companies, construction chambers. Are these entities well informed, are they prepared for these future solutions, or do they have full knowledge? Were these public consultations properly conducted? Because it will also affect the implementation of this law in everyday life, right there, in local governments, where this law is supposed to work. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u61	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Mr Adam Hamryszczak, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions. As far as the first question is concerned, of course, the narrowing that exists is closely linked to the Public Procurement Law. There is also the possibility to negotiate with a limited number of entities, so that it is quite natural. Much of the provisions in this law are identical to the provisions of the Public Procurement Law, just as these directives must correlate with each other. On the other hand, when it comes to the question of participation issues, of course, the entity must have legal personality, so that it needs to be clarified here, that when it comes to legal personality, it must be completed. On the other hand, of course, the draft law was consulted, there were concerted conferences, so that most stakeholders should have adequate knowledge in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u63	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Waldemar Olejniczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that all parliamentary clubs support the bill, all the more so because I am aware that the world, the direction in which we are going, will go this way, that it will be a very attractive and very popular law. Why? Perhaps there will come a time when local governments will want to invest, they will want to invest a lot in their own territory, without involving their own resources, even because of a very high risk. This bill and this method seem to come out in front of it. So this is a very big plus. In examining the statements of the rapporteurs, I will refer to the words of Mr Khrushch, who spoke about the companies that have gone bankrupt in carrying out previous public contracts. It's hard for me to tell you how it happened. I don't know until today, although this business, I'm no stranger to this profession. In the normal world, if the company, which was an unfair company, took part in a public tender, gave a high price, then commissioned subcontractors, contractors, not suppliers, and disappeared... In our history of previous years, we have the fact that companies have performed contracts and executed high-priced public contracts and have also gone bankrupt. I don't have an answer to that question. I can't answer it. About what Mr Gryglas and Mr Profit said. Dear State, the basic conditions which are included in this Act are based on the Public Procurement Act, so all the conditions included in the specification, under the conditions of appeal, are as if the basis and derivative of these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its position on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 and on the status of respect for human rights and freedoms. The committee's position is 801. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the amendment of the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on the amendment of the Local Government Act and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item heard three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws (print No 750). I would like to ask Mr Marcin Horala to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws which I am presenting to the High House could in fact be called a bill on strengthening the integration of state policy in the field of maritime affairs and strengthening the competence of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping to conduct this policy. There is no denying that this area has been treated as a stepmother by almost all previous governments, with the slight exception of the PiS governments in 2005 and 2007. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs was unfortunately wound up and its achievements were largely wasted. The issues of maritime and inland waterway management were scattered among several ministries: treasure, infrastructure, economy, environmental protection and a few more. In each of these ministries, they were side areas, secondary areas, not treated with the utmost care and with the utmost care. The strategic intention of Law and Justice, which we have already announced in the electoral campaign and which we have been implementing since the rule of law, is to give a very high priority to the promotion of maritime and inland waterway management. The expression of these actions was the creation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, and in this parliamentary bill we want to strengthen this Ministry, give it the necessary additional competences, so far not possessed by the Ministry, and necessary for its effective functioning. Why is it so important? Let's take a look at what this area of the ministry is doing, this area. The shipbuilding industry, for example. Now we are talking so much about the need for reindustrialisation, that in order for Poland to break out of the trap of average income, Poles should not be in the global economic division of subcontractors, contractors of small, low-paid, low-skilled jobs, only should produce ready-made, finished, precisely requiring high qualifications, high technology, valuable products, and probably hardly a more valuable and complex product than a sea-going ship. It is estimated that one job in the yard is between seven and a dozen - sometimes with more complex types of ships - jobs with co-operatives and suppliers. Moreover, they are to a large extent good jobs for qualified people, for engineers, for constructors; they are also well paid jobs. We particularly care about the development of this industry. Ports, seaport turnover is also creating additional jobs in the whole back room. Recently, a study by Dr. Matczak of the Maritime Academy has been presented, which has proved that one job in the port is six jobs in its immediate surroundings, but almost 33 jobs in the transport and industry sector across the country. The ports are already responsible for 230 grand. jobs in the Polish economy. But little of this, ports are also direct billions of revenue to the state budget due to taxes and duties paid out at the moment when goods cross the EU customs territory just in Poland. So that port development is also particularly important. There is also a branch of transport such as inland navigation. It's in the name of the ministry. We have created a new department of government in the form of inland waterway transport. It is the transport department for many freight groups optimal. This mode of transport is the most ecological, most clean, often the cheapest. It is estimated that compared to circular transport there are six - seven times more effective when it comes to noise, air pollution and five times more cost-effective. Meanwhile, this field was in a state of complete collapse in Poland, you can say, it has been eliminated. Suffice it to say that the average EU transport of goods by inland waterways is about 6% freight - the EU average, i.e. together with countries which, for example for natural reasons, do not have the conditions for the development of this type of transport at all. In Poland, a lowland country with a favourable river system, this road is transported only below 0.4% goods. Our western neighbour, Germany, transports up to 240 million tons of goods per year by inland waterways. In Poland it is only 7.5 million t, or 30 times less. Is Poland 30 times smaller than Germany? Of course not. The development of inland waterway transport, the regulation of rivers necessary for this development, brings additional benefits in the form of additional renewable energy sources, in the form of flood protection, in the form of water supply security for agriculture. Finally, the fisheries sector is also very important not only as a further tens of thousands of jobs, but also as a certain ethos, lifestyle, tradition and culture of life inherent in the Polish Coast, included in the cultural landscape. Without fishing, the Polish Coast would not be what it is. We have a great responsibility to keep this type of business, but also this kind of lifestyle, passed on from generation to generation in fishing families, to preserve and develop for future generations. I have drawn just so quickly the most important aspects to show what challenges the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping faces. We can already see the good fruitage of this ministry's activities. The High Chamber adopted the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry drafted in the Ministry, which will enter into force on 1 January and will start to produce positive results. We have developed, we are implementing a strategy for developing inland waterways for 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2030. It will allow us to reach out to the huge European measures that we will invest in the development of our waterways, in the regulation of Polish rivers, in the development of inland waterway transport. But this only shows that we should move further towards strengthening the ministry's competences, that we should give the ministry the necessary powers to conduct state policies in the field of maritime and inland waterway transport in a multidimensional manner. This law, which provides for the amendment of 29 different laws, is now in line with this need. I will not discuss all 29 paragraphs after the paragraph, but I think that the proposed changes could be grouped into these four main groups. First of all, it is the granting of the Minister of Maritime Affairs authority over the state institutions in its respective area, such as the Maritime Search and Rescue Service, the Central Maritime Examination Commission and the Maritime Institute. Secondly, this is to establish the general competence of the Minister for Maritime Affairs as a minister exercising the powers of the Treasury in the State Treasury of companies in the field of maritime affairs, fisheries and inland waterway transport, as well as to include this particular minister in the laws which constitute the activities of some of these companies. There are companies that have their dedicated laws that regulate their operation, e.g. it is a port and marina law for companies managing seaports. The third of these groups is to include the consequences of the establishment of an IWT division in a whole range of legislation on transport, transport security, environmental safety, exceptional conditions, etc. Finally, the fourth is the appointment of the Minister as a body of substantive supervision, consultation in upper secondary education, in research on the areas specific to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. High Izbo! This law is another step towards strengthening the state's policy to promote the development of the maritime economy, the development of shipyards, ports, fishing and inland waterway transport, which should be at our heart, which can become a flywheel of the Polish economy. We can see now that the Ministry has proved successful in its activities. We also need to help, give additional tools to develop these areas that are so important to our economy, which are even faster, even more efficient, with even greater success for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the bill amending the Law on Government Departments and some laws, print No 750. High Izbo! The project aims to amend 29 laws. These changes concern mainly the redistribution of powers of public administrations between government departments. The proposed changes do not have a major impact on the scope of these competences. The proposal aims in particular at extending the mandate of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport. The applicant's Member has presented in very detail the provisions contained in this provision of the Act. I will not go back to them, I will not analyse them, I would like to stress that the proposed law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws provides for the creation of ministers competent for maritime, fisheries and inland navigation legal instruments necessary for the proper performance of their tasks. State policy on these three sections requires a major overhaul or, as the applicant has said, even reconstruction. The pursuit of a coherent policy on maritime, fisheries and inland waterway transport is currently a priority task for the Polish state. Therefore, as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, we fully support those provisions contained in Draft Law No 750 and request that this proposal be directed to further work in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law on government departments and some other laws, print No 750. High Izbo! This bill is consistent with the philosophy of action of the ruling majority, strongly embedded in the tradition of statism and the Ministry of Poland. I suppose there are still people in the room who remember the Polish People's Republic of Poland's unification of the shipbuilding industry, fish economy or inland waterway transport. Probably not everyone knows that in the times of the Polish People's Republic there were also separate ministries of the railway and food industry and buying. Bones have been cast. Time will show whether it was right to institutionally separate Polish ports from land roads, whether it really connects our seaports with the shipbuilding industry more than with their railway facilities. In the justification of the project, I was amazed to read about the necessity of Poland's return to the Baltic Sea, especially since Members of Pomerania also signed this project, as if we lived in parallel realities. In the further part of the justification we are talking about the need to rebuild the Polish shipbuilding industry, after which data on the participation of the European shipbuilding industry in world production are quoted. It seems that it was not by chance that the authors omitted information about the activity of our shipyards, although the Polish shipbuilding industry in terms of scale of production is second in Europe and fifth in the world. It is a good thing that on the past Saturday the crowds of the Tricity residents could see what was happening in the territory of the former shipyard in Gdynia. Direct contact with reality is the best antidote for propaganda. High Izbo! The draft contains a number of detailed provisions that we will be working on in committee. At first reading, I would just like to draw attention to the topic of ownership of seaports. In line with the current wording of the Law on Ports and Seaports, representatives of municipalities are the chairmen of the Supervisory Boards of Maritime Ports. This strengthens the position of local governments, hosts of ports where representatives of the State Treasury have a majority in these councils. I would like to remind you that there has been a long discussion on this issue between the supporters of leaving ports in the hands of the State Treasury and local governments seeking their communalisation. The provisions of the Ports and Seaports Act reflect the compromise that is now being undermined. Will the Minister responsible for maritime affairs lead to the leaders of the strategic councils of ports being those with greater competence? I doubt it. Experience so far from the observation of changes in the Pomeranian authorities of ports indicates that the standard has become for PiS activists to fill these functions with a very debatable acquis. For example, recently in the interpellation I asked the Minister, among others. about the professional experience of the Vice-President of the Gdynia Port Council. On the Internet I found only records of his activity on the board of the settlement of one of Gdańsk housing cooperatives and of course about activities in the PiS. The answer I received was very general, while at the same time the management of the Gdynia port appointed him as the president of the subsidiary, in which the management board serves as a meeting of shareholders. Thus, the people appointed by the Council with the participation of the person mentioned in the port board appointed him as the president of the company they controlled. The name of this gentleman disappeared from the website of the Gdynia Port Council, but it was undoubtedly visible on the day when it included the position of President of the subsidiary. In the next interpellation, of course, I will ask the Minister to clarify all the circumstances relating to this case and to present the relevant documents. Unfortunately, this is not the only example showing the so-called. a good change in the maritime economy, which generally leads to the stubbornness of companies' bodies at the expense of experienced managers with high achievements. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As I said, the bones have been cast. This project is consistent with the archaic departmental philosophy of thinking about the economy adopted by the ruling majority and directly refers to the decisions already taken, in my view of the bad ones. We do not ask for the rejection of the project at first reading, but we will defend the Polish self-government against taking away its competences and during the work in the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation we will present appropriate amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and some laws, print No 750. Soon we will have a year of government activity, Prime Minister Szydło. There has been a battle for the recovery of the maritime economy for a year, as we know, of neglected issues, issues that require a lot of work. Somewhere this partly justifies the fact that we have been waiting almost a year for this proposal to clarify the actions of the Minister responsible. There is no doubt that the direction is right, because the maritime economy requires certain regulations and arrangements through negligence. We are open to further action during the committee discussion on the fact that the bill, which will be the final result, will serve the Polish economy, serve Polish companies and ports, but we would like to ensure that in these consultations we do not forget about local governments, forget about trade unions and be open to hearing the voice of interested parties. The Kukiz Club15 supports the bill presented at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u74	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws, print No 750. The Member's representative asked me to say how important this area is, which is regulated. It is all the more regrettable to note that almost one year has passed since the functioning of the PiS government and another law that shapes the government's system is a parliamentary submission, not a government submission. The following questions therefore arise: firstly, about the efficiency of Poland's affairs by this government, since for such a long period the government administration is unable to draw up a law regulating the functioning of the Ministry of Economy and Inland Navigation, a resort so important as was shown here in the speeches of both the rapporteur and the representative of Law and Justice. Secondly, the question arises of the completeness and consistency of the bill submitted, which was not only subject to public consultation but even to internal agreements. The draft law also raises constitutional doubts as regards the regulation on the issue of implementing acts in the field of transport law through their impreciseness resulting from generality, which was highlighted inter alia. in his position as Public Prosecutor General of the Treasury. I'll remind you, Art. 92. 1 of the Constitution provides that the authorisation should specify the authority competent to issue the regulation and the scope of the matters delegated to it and the guidelines on the content of the act. Furthermore, the Attorney General draws attention to a number of other shortcomings of the bill, which we fully agree with. It is also important to highlight and share the position of the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences, paying attention to changes in the Act on the National Centre for Research and Development, which cause a disruption of representativeness between scientific, economic and government administration. In favor of the government, of course. There are also serious doubts about the changes introduced by the Education Act which entrust the Minister with power over the establishment and running of public maritime schools, inland waterway transport and fisheries, thereby limiting the competence of the district government in the field of vocational education. These are only some of the elements of a very comprehensive law, because, as Mr said, this matter is governed by 29 laws. And I dare say that we will have further proposals, comments and amendments at the committee's meeting, because - we know the history of previous Members' statements on the regulation of government departments - we have already dealt with this. However, given that the government has the right to shape the nature of the ministries, the Modern will not request that this bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u75	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u76	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party I want to inform and declare that we will not vote against, we will vote in favour of sending the project to further work. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is another project, which concerns the regulation of the functioning of the government administration, which is presented in the form of a parliamentary project. We remain convinced and remain convinced that, during further work, we will be given to explain and resolve these doubts which arise, because it is logical to believe that the government created had enough time to prepare the appropriate project, to present it as a government project, to submit it to appropriate, customary and included consultation procedures and to pass it to the High House for work and debate. Nevertheless, we assume - and it seems to me, normal - that every government, every department of this government has the right to shape assumptions, to show mechanisms, to set ways for achieving adopted and defined goals. That's why it's our job. There are 29 draft laws, 29 areas, and I think that we will have the opportunity to talk about it, perhaps not like changes in the records, but as a shift of competences, as the creation and shift of mechanisms that will help to carry out these tasks, and to arrange and place them in a new place will affect the performance of the tasks and the results. How this will affect the different areas and how it will work with the resorts, from which competences are shifted. Nevertheless, we will be very pleased if the effects of these measures in 2 and 3 years prove to be good for our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the matter of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. This draft law concerns changes in three departments of government: maritime, fisheries and newly created inland waterway transport. As the projectors rightly point out, our country's policy in these areas needs to be thoroughly rebuilt. Establishment in December 2015 The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, whose tasks include handling these three departments, was the first step in the right direction. Another appropriate step, which the provisions of the proposed regulation provide for, is to extend the competence of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport to the extent necessary to enable him to properly fulfil his obligations. In addition, project promoters propose to introduce a number of regulatory changes which are logical as a consequence of the rules already laid down and the political course chosen. These include the gradual transfer of tasks in the management of the State Treasury to the competent ministries of industry, the harmonisation of laws in the area of entities under the supervision of the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs, the inclusion of the Maritime Institute in Gdańsk under its supervision and the transfer of certain competences currently belonging to the Minister responsible for Transport to the Minister responsible for Inland Navigation. Ensuring consistency in the operation of the relevant ministries and the substantive distribution of competences is, in my opinion, crucial to achieving the target set, which in this particular case is the re-bloom of the Polish maritime and inland waterway economy. As irrational regulations in this Act, the Polish Districts Association indicated provisions giving the right to competent ministers to establish and run public schools of sea, inland waterway and fishing. As the Polish Districts Association pointed out, this thread was not developed in the justification of the project and it cannot be clearly stated what led the projecters. In view of the fact that the regulations in question are not mandatory in this respect, but merely give an opportunity, and without being clearly convinced of the distribution of the reasoning in this matter, I count on a substantive discussion in this area at the committee meeting. However, I must agree with the reservations raised by the Polish Academy of Sciences. The changes proposed by the projectors have a significant impact on the existing functioning and nature of the National Council of Research and Development Centre. I hope that the voice of the Polish Academy of Sciences and the solutions proposed by it will be taken into account in further work on the draft law. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of further proceedings of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u79	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask you another question? If not, I'm closing the list. And you are the first question asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. It's time to ask the question, as always, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have such a question to ask for clarification, because the Minister will have the authority to set up, conduct public maritime schools, inland waterway transport and fisheries on the basis of this law. Does this mean that, so far, schools in this area run by local government units, in general, the counties, by virtue of this law, are transformed into a cognition of the Minister? If so, how many of these schools are and what are the elements of compensation for local government units for the possible costs associated with the buildings of these schools and similar activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Wilk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike Mr Azievicz, I have no concern that the Ministry will be equipped with the remains of national assets, which in a mugging way was privatized in the area of maritime affairs. It's a good thing there's a ministry that can handle this and secure the interests of the state in this case. I would like to know and ask whether... I have also seen that there are measures secured for the development of these small ports: in Ustka, Darłów or Elbląg. How does the Ministry plan to secure its interests and who will carry them out, whether the Maritime Authority in Gdynia or the company set up to build a shipping channel, because I believe that it will be realized by the Vistula Land? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry provide for the establishment of a specific company for this purpose? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Minister Marek G grubarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the votes and for the project that has been submitted as part of the change in government departments, in order to strengthen the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation as a state element aimed at the development of this industry. As far as the question of the Member is concerned, I would like to reassure you. There will be no acquisition of existing schools or real estate related to this. This is only the right to create new operators, new units and educational schools in maritime and inland waterway management and fisheries. As regards, of course, the construction of the shipping channel by the Vistula Region, the investor is the Maritime Authority in Gdynia, which will be responsible for the implementation of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. The applicant's representative, Mr Marcin Horała, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address a few points that have been raised in the discussion and in the questions. A few, I think, cases, have also been put very unfairly and cannot be left unanswered. The first thesis here concerned the supposedly dubious competences of people, some sort of PiS activists who are nominated to the authorities of the ports management companies. So so quickly, from memory, one port in Gdynia, me personally closest, without names. Persons in the Supervisory Board: an engineer with experience in infrastructure management and with experience of the Vice-President and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of a company from the maritime sector, an economist, a chief accountant with many years of experience in the Supervisory Boards of maritime companies, including in the Supervisory Board of one of the Port Administrations, a legal adviser with experience in commercial companies from the private sector, a doctor of legal sciences, a director of the Department in the Ministry of Maritime Economy and a lawyer with experience in the state administration complements the rate. These are supposedly incompetent persons appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. Composition of the Management Board: Director of Financial Affairs, Member of the Management Board, Open PhD in Business Finance, Numerous Scientific Publications, Experience of the Financial Director of Large Companies, also in the International Environment, Director of the Management Board. infrastructure, engineer, with technical education, after numerous management courses, with experience in independent management positions, recently director of the management office in a company dealing with infrastructure projects in a group of companies in the field of maritime affairs. It is worth noting that, in this position, his predecessor, the former director of finance. The infrastructure at the port, when he was appointed, was a lawyer by education, he had professional experience with the radio director and the head of affairs. personnel in a company that is not part of the maritime sector. Finally, the President with extensive experience in the port management, in management positions, later the President of several private sector companies, including listed companies. [[Applause]] So that they are those supposedly incompetent persons who have been appointed to serve in port companies. The second thesis or the second major problem is the involvement of local authorities in managing ports. This, of course, is a problem and an important issue that we should lean on. The intention - this is how I read it, because, for example, because of age, I was not there when without a small 20 years ago the Law on marinas and seaports was passed - the legislator was so as to actually involve the local government in managing strategic ports. I think that here the legislator correctly saw a discrepancy to some extent, let's say, interests or natural directions of action between ports and local authorities in which they lie. Because while it is in the interests of the whole state and the economy of the whole state that the maximum development of ports is in the interest of the whole state, the development of transhipments in ports, while the cities in which these ports lie may sometimes have a slightly different idea. They may think that, for example. excluding any land from the maritime economy and selling it under a lucrative development contract will be a more advantageous option for one or another, the mayor, the president. The pressure of housing, the displacement of industrial areas, sometimes located close to the city centers, is a natural contradiction. The intention was for local authorities to engage in port management, to feel co-hosted, so that this natural conflict of interest would be eliminated. The records originally included in this Act provided, first of all, that local authorities were to engage in capital ports either through the import of funds or through the transfer of land to companies managing ports. At the same time, unfortunately, there was no conclusion that they would have a significant role in the supervisory bodies in return. Unfortunately, it's hard for the local authorities to be surprised, because they're here to do their own business, if that's what they're allowed to do... There was no dependence on one another, i.e. those supervisory powers, but they did not engage capitalally in port management companies. And here in the normal market economy, we would have to go to the entrepreneur and ask him if he would agree to something like that, that he would appoint a company to which he would bring. 99.7% the capital and the other party will raise 0,3% of the capital and will mid-control the supervision of the company and will have the President of the Supervisory Board from the vending machine. Unfortunately, such situations in port management companies are happening and it is simply strange and abnormal, so that the grossly minority shareholder has such an impact on the operation of the company. I would very much like to encourage... I do not want to speak here on behalf of the Ministry, I do not have the authority to do so, but I think that the Ministry would be happy to take talks with local governments if they wanted to contribute to the inclusion of additional shares or especially to transfer additional land for the development of the maritime economy, for the development of ports, to increase their involvement in these companies, we will certainly be happy to carry out such talks. However, in a situation where there is no such will, it cannot be that a shareholder with less than 1% shares have half control over the company. The next voice that appeared is the alleged archaic concept of the Ministry of Poland. No, I would say the opposite, that it is archaic that all companies of the Treasury are to be in one specialised ministry, which in principle is to be more or less favorable, often adversely, sell. Those days are over. Companies that have been in the hands of the State Treasury, almost all, at least those from the maritime economy that we are talking about now, are dressed in the form of a company - sometimes in the world. port managements are administrative authorities, these are not companies - organisations, institutions implementing state policy in the area. I can't imagine the situation, especially after the privatisation process of transhipment terminals, where the port management, which only has to manage the infrastructure, collect port fees, invest in quays, in incoming channels, was privatized. No, he is to be a tool in the hands of the State, in the hands of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, which is responsible for the maritime affairs of the State, and should therefore belong to the Minister responsible for these matters. Another issue that has emerged is that the government administration is supposedly unable to draw up a bill for a year - so one of the Members said - which governs the functioning of the Ministry. Nothing more wrong. As you can see, the Minister has been sitting in the Chamber and has been operating for a year, such a law has been prepared, and on the basis of some experience, we have already gathered experience within almost a year, we see some areas in which some additional competences should be transferred to this Ministry. It doesn't mean that it doesn't have competence now, that it doesn't work or work badly, but we want it to work even better, even more effectively. As I say, on the basis of some experience, areas can be found, several areas in 29 laws, where such additional competences should be given to the Ministry. I also assure you that the applicants worked on this law in communication and in contact, consulting, also using the government's help, in the preparation of the content of this project. It is clear that the scope of government departments cannot be regulated in isolation or without contact, without consulting the government that will work on this basis. And the last thing I wanted to say was that day of the open shipyard. Here's what I'm going to say: in the shipyard in Gdansk, it's an open day every day, because there, when you walk through this famous shipyard gate, a man welcomes a plowed, empty field. [[But this is your privatisation.]] And this is also a symbol of the state of the shipbuilding industry, as is the non-existent Qatari investor who... [[You sold it to the Ukrainians.]] ...Mr. Tusk had a public opinion, just like those dog-shearing courses and flower bouquets for fired shipbuilders. So if we are talking about the situation of the shipbuilding industry in Poland, let us talk about the whole thing rather than selectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u87	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u88	I am applying for the bill to be sent to the Maritime Affairs Committee. [[Scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u89	The discussion is closed. The proposal will be put to the vote in the voting block. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - specific rules for the settlement of value added tax and for the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, - amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The reports shall include printers Nos 809, 808 and 797 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 17 hours 14 min 19]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Law on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Act on Municipal Government and some other laws (prints No. 782 and 798). I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Law on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Act on Municipal Government and some other laws, print No. 782. The Senate considered the law adopted by the High House on 22 July 2016, which aimed to extend the possibility of combining family support and foster care facilities and social assistance agencies. However, it considers that the permitted connections do not jeopardise the conditions of foster care for children. The Act also extends the period of adjustment of care and education institutions to the requirements introduced by the Act of 25 June 2015. The amendments introduced by the Senate in the text of the Act on 4 August 2016 are, first, an extension of the catalogue of entities with which social assistance organisations must not be combined, to specialised support centres for victims of violence in the family. This applies only to round-the-clock establishments. Secondly, the Senate introduces the possibility for the voivod to issue permits for the operation of care and education facilities of up to 14 children on a single land property, as is the case with their functioning in one building. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, considering today the amendments contained in the resolution of the Senate of 4 August 2016, calls on the High Sejm to approve these amendments. As suggested by the Legislative Bureau, these amendments should be voted together. This position was adopted unanimously by the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u91	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in connection with the report of the committee on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Law on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Local Government Act and some other laws, print No. 782. The Senate adopted four amendments to the Act adopted by the Sejm on 22 July 2016 at its meeting on 4 August 2016. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy at today's meeting unanimously welcomed the amendments tabled by the Senate. High Izbo, I will not present the detailed provisions of this draft resolution, as did the rapporteur. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends a positive opinion of the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u93	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it would be all right, because my club will also support, i.e. it will vote against the rejection of the Senate amendments, if not for the fact that the Senate is implementing rejected by the Sejm and brought forward by the opposition, including my club, amendments sounding exactly the same way, and which - and I will repeat again - the Sejm rejected as amendments to the opposition. These amendments do not fully improve the legal situation which is imposed on local governments and social assistance agencies and institutions which are necessary and resulting from the law on family support and foster care, it is rather difficult to do so, but these amendments support, help local governments and these individuals. The province could not so far issue a permit which would allow the institution resulting from the Law on Family Support to connect with the organizational social assistance facility, if they were located on one land property, but could be issued if they were located in one building. Rarely are situations where one building is located on two land plots or another is the geodetic division of the plot. It's fixing the Senate. It also improves a situation in which a 24-hour social assistance organisation cannot be combined with a care and education institution, which also operates 24/7. You can still understand that. We will support this because we do not understand why day support facilities cannot be placed on a single property or on a single property in a building in which the community centre operates at a social centre, where the social integration of children and older people is harmonious. This is not true, and this is the result of the bill which the PIS Members have introduced and which is being corrected by the Senate at the moment, that children are harmed by the sight of the elderly or the sick. Such wording is contained in the Act, in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, which today the Senate corrects. In summary, these amendments do not fully improve the legal situation previously than today, but improve enough that my club will vote against rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u95	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka to pursue from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Act on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Act on Municipal Government and some other laws. The debate on this subject has already been held in this House. There was a very turbulent discussion, but this discussion as one of the few has produced good results. The applicants withdrew from most of the harmful provisions that brought this law to an absurd role with the main message that the proximity of the elderly or the disabled has a bad impact on the upbringing of children. The amendments proposed by the Senate lead to a decision on organisational issues relating to childcare at a lower level than government level, because they give the voivodeship the right to take into account the situation of local governments or care institutions themselves. Another common sense amendment. However, it must be borne in mind that many, many changes need to be made in the social assistance system. It's a cosmetic change. We hope that the government will make such changes that will bring about, or actually will cause the care facilities to disappear from our political stage and take over the whole care of the children. Our club will, of course, be against the rejection of these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to print No 782, i.e. the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Social Assistance Act and the Local Government Act and other laws. The Senate has made four amendments that in some way clean up and improve the changes you want to make. The amendments were also made by the opposition during the work of the committee. Unfortunately, they were voted negative. Glory has been given to the Senate for our amendments. Perhaps he has worked out his position, expanded it, thus making these amendments desirable. The agreement of the voivode, which is also one of the amendments, gives the most opportunity to make right and reasonable decisions. However, the amendments do not correct the law enough to say with a clear conscience that these are desirable changes, because in general, as far as the law is concerned, it is not a good law, because it limits the right for the local government to decide that the institutions can function in one building. Also, it's about kids, for example. It would be an opportunity to meet your grandparents, exchange stories. Grandparents could tell stories, and children could share knowledge about social networking. This would help to improve and remove the loneliness that accompanies older people, but also children, because they are already stigmatized today. I do not fully agree with the proposed law, but on the basis of the amendments made by the Senate - I will be honest, we will support them, we are in favour of introducing these amendments - we will not reject them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u99	Thank you very much, Member. And I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u100	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Act on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Act on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Local Government Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the law on family support and foster care has been examined by the Senate. The senators, as we can read in the explanatory memorandum to the resolution, expressed positive opinions on the novel proposed by the applicants. However, the amendments made by the Senate do not resolve certain political doubts, and with them new ones appear. As we know, the proposed amendment refers to provisions which were introduced by another law, dated 25 June 2015, on the amendment of the Local Government Act and certain other laws aimed at increasing the flexibility of local government units and facilitating their cooperation. The Act states that each county may combine a daily support facility with a care and education facility or an organisational unit of social assistance. This possibility also involves a reduction in the number of directors' posts. As a result of the above amendment, changes have been made, among others. to the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. After the Senate's review of the amendment, we still do not know how the project by PiS has to deal with the changes that are in progress. Has it been checked at what stage of change, related to previous regulations, are local governments? So we still don't know. whether the proposed amendment is not a proverbial turning back with a Vistula stick, especially since, as we heard during the procession in the Seym, the scale of the problem that was raised in the novel is small. Finally, I would like to remind you that the so-called. The law on foster care has already been amended several times, among others. In 2014, the obligation to listen to the child's opinion, to change control over foster families, to finance children's stay in care facilities and the income of children in care are only some changes that allow for a quick response if there is doubt about adequate care. We hope that the current majority, when it comes to the proposed changes, will focus primarily on the welfare of the beneficiaries of substitute care, not on the political fight against local governments. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party will support the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u101	Thank you very much. And I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the Senate resolution on the amendment of the law on family support and foster care, the Social Assistance Act and the Act on amending the law on municipal self-government and some other laws. The amendments introduced by the Senate in this Act do not contradict the original objectives of its designers. Further, the main task of the regulations is to help care and training institutions perform their functions and missions in a reliable manner. This law, taking into account the amendments of the Senate, will continue to contribute to securing the creation of such environments in which pupils of a particular type of establishment will be provided with the conditions of development as close as possible to family. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Since no one has asked questions, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units (prints No 780 and 809). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u104	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Public Finance, which was included in print No 809, on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and on the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units, print No 780. Amendment 6 was addressed a lot of time during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. Amendment 6 of the Senate restores the wording of the article. 10 included in the government project. New wording of the article. 10 adopted by the Sejm was not correlated with the article. 17 and Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's Amendment 6 of the Senate will provide the local authorities with legal certainty as regards the deduction of tax on expenditure financed by Union funds. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting of 5 September 2016 gave a positive opinion on all of them, 14 amendments, and asks the High Sejm to accept all of these amendments contained in the Senate resolution in paragraph 1. At the same time, the committee calls for a joint vote on Amendment 3 and Amendment 12 and Amendment 13 and Amendment 14. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u106	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the Senate resolution on the Law on the special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by the local government units contained in print No 780. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Senate held its meeting on 4 August this year. has introduced 14 amendments to the draft law submitted - mostly in order, part of which is more precise and editorial. An important change, as the previous speaker has already mentioned, is contained in Amendment 6, which restores the wording of the article. 10 laws included in the government project and amended by the Sejm during the third reading. The reason for this position is the conviction that there is no correlation between the amended Article. 10 of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's In addition, according to the Senate, the original wording proposed by the Government provides legal transparency and does not generate any costs for local government budgets and protects local authorities from the risk of being exposed to the charge of mismanagement. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to say that our club, following a careful analysis of the proposed amendments contained in the Senate resolution on this bill, will vote in favour of all amendments tabled by the Senate in accordance with the recommendation of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u108	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club an opinion on the amendments made by the Senate to the text of the Act on the special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local authorities. It is worth first of all saying that the law itself is necessary to restore legal practice. It is the result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union last year, dated 26 October 2015. So much about the law itself, which, as I say, deserves a positive assessment, which does not mean that any solution to it deserves such an assessment. We generally appreciate the amendments made by the Senate. Besides, it must be stressed that these senate amendments were agreed by the Ministry of Finance and the Senate Legislative Office. In view of the time constraints, I will mention only some amendments. The majority are technical and legislative in nature and are valid amendments, improving the quality of the legal text and consistency with the rules already in force. A positive assessment should be made of amendments eliminating parts not containing new normative content (amendment No 5 concerning Article. 6) or a more complex phenomenon of duplication of solutions (Article 3 amendment. 5. amendments 1 and 2 relating to Article are designed to ensure consistency with the applicable regulations. 2. I would also like to draw attention to Amendment 4 concerning Article. 6. It shall consist in indicating that the exemption may be used until the day preceding the date on which the joint clearance takes place. The original version referred to the use of the exemption until the date of the joint clearance. The term "day" means that this day is included in the term, and that was not the case. Furthermore, an amendment of this content had already been tabled on behalf of the Civic Platform Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] during second reading. Unfortunately, at that time it was not a positive opinion by the committee. All the more so that it returns in the form of a Senate amendment. Amendment 8 also eliminates potential interpretation doubts. I'm out of time. There's one more amendment left. I think my friend from Modern City is gonna talk more about it. In fact, as a whole, these amendments are positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u110	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position on the Senate resolution on the Law on the special rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. It's a very long name for the bill, but it's basically two basic things. The first is the centralisation of the settlement of the tax on goods and services by local government units at the level of the legal person of the local government unit. This aspect in this law does not raise any doubts. The second very important element of this law is to ensure that local authorities are able to exercise the right to calculate the tax charged on investment expenditure. Here are the important doubts concerning Amendment No 6 made by the Senate. With regard to this amendment re-establishing the previous wording of the Act, we are in fact dealing with a situation in which we actually deprive the local government of the right to reduce tax due on investment expenses, as the introduction of a deadline for reimbursement of the so-called. VAT eligible until the date of entry into force of the Act, and I would like to remind you that this Act enters into force on 1 October 2016, causes that local government units will in fact not have time to prepare such settlements. There is nothing more wrong with the fact that this will provide legal certainty for local self-government units, because it is precisely in such a situation that local self-government units which have exercised their right to reduce the tax due on general principles will be privileged to those local self-government units which will be subject to this law on specific rules for the settlement of VAT. What's causing this? This violates the basic principle of the tax on goods and services, i.e. the principle of neutrality. This causes smaller local governments, smaller municipalities and small towns to lose. This creates a legal gap whereby law firms will still claim from the State Treasury and deduct input tax. How can we bring about a situation where a local government unit carrying out the same activity before the entry into force of this law will be able to exercise the right of deduction and a local government unit which, in relation to [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the same activities, but on the basis of the new law will be in a worse legal situation? Therefore, the Modern Posel Club outside Amendment 6 will vote in favour, i.e. against the adoption of these amendments, and as regards Amendment 6, for rejecting this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. There isn't. I would like to ask Mr Ireneus for Profit, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle. There isn't either. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act (Prints No. 781 and 808). I ask Mr Jerzy Bielecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 4 August 2016 on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on corporate income tax. The Senate has tabled three amendments, mainly clarification amendments. During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, there was practically no discussion. The government side's position was positive, the Legal Bureau's position was positive. There is nothing left for me but to ask the High House to give a positive opinion on the amendments tabled by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u114	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting on 4 August, the Senate examined the Law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act with three amendments. They concern the question that it was necessary to amend the references in the unamended articles: Article. Paragraph 24 Point 3 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h) c Corporate Income Tax Act and Art. 30f paragraph. Point 3 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), These provisions concerned the definition of a foreign controlled company. They assume that a foreign company is controlled by a company whose income is taxed in the State of its establishment at a rate of at least 25% higher than the rate set out in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Corporate Income Tax Act. If it's art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the two rates, i.e. 19% and 15% , it has simply become necessary to adapt, clarify the reference and therefore amendments 1 and 2 which provide for a reference to the current rate of tax of 19 per cent, i.e. the rate referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Corporate Income Tax Act. Second line. The Senate noted that the taxable person referred to in Article. 7, has the possibility of applying a reduced rate of tax as a taxable person starting business, whether or not such prohibition will result from Article. Seven or no. Here was the question of the year of the taxpayer's start of business. According to the hypothesis of Art. 7 it will always be 2016 and the first tax year to which the provisions amended by the Law may apply is 2017 and the article could necessarily exclude the application of this reduced rate and hence this 3rd important amendment. It seems that these amendments are fully justified, relevant, and are a clarification of the previous provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club on Senate amendments to the Act amending the Act on Personal Income Tax and the Act on Corporate Income Tax. Let me just remind you that this bill is, on the one hand, the sealing of the system, which is intended to compensate for the loss of revenue in the budget resulting from the reduction of the tax rate to 15%. For up to 400,000. entities, but that means that this movement is symbolic. Let me remind you, we've already mentioned that this is actually a propaganda project. 56 PLN per month, this will be a tax advantage for this entrepreneur. On the other hand, as regards the amendments, they do indeed have a legislative, editorial dimension, and we will also vote in favour of these amendments. We also voted in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u117	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Jakubiak, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u118	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present a position on the Senate resolution on amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. Indeed, the amendments made by the Senate are merely changes in order, hence we have no comment on these changes. However, we would like to stress that this also makes it clear that the Law on the amendment of the Corporate Income Tax Act was originally intended to apply to small enterprises, and small companies are entities whose income in the tax year is up to EUR 10 million, whereas small taxpayers are concerned, i.e. companies whose income in the tax year is up to EUR 1.2 million. Thus, these rules have significantly reduced the scope for benefiting from a reduced rate of 15% corporate income tax. Suffice it to say that the change in this rate reduces revenue to the budget by 0.8% , so this is negligible for companies. Instead, we have corporate difficulties in this law. The legislation introduced only tightens the regulations, confuses the regulations and causes the Ministry of Finance, with the other hand, to take out the same amount of taxes as taxpayers save by changing the rate from 19% to 15%. , removes it as a result of tightening the remaining rules. It is therefore difficult to say here that this law goes against the promises of PiS and in particular Prime Minister Beata Szydło, expressed in the stand, saying that it will reduce the tax burden on small businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u119	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. There is no Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports (prints Nos 783 and 797). I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Ławniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Infrastructure Commission has received a report on the Senate resolution amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the Senate's resolution to the Committee on Infrastructure on 8 August. The Committee on Infrastructure has met today and proposes that the High Sejm reject the Senate amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports concerns in fact the introduction of a new deadline by which the airport, the airport manager or the Polish Air Navigation Agency may apply to the competent voivodeship for the authorisation of an investment in the field of public use airports. Such a proposal may be submitted by 31 December 2020. Let me briefly remind you that the project entered the Sejm on July 5th. The whole procedure ended with a third reading in the Sejm was completed on 21 July, and then the bill was passed to the President and the Senate Marshal. The Senate dealt with the amendments on 4 August and adopted a resolution and tabled an amendment on the introduction of Article. 4 instead of Article. 4a - of course, in its amendment to the basic wording of the Act - in which the date of 31 December 2015 was replaced by 31 December 2020, and the argument underlines that without it, the addressees of the Act would have received two contradictory provisions. The deadline is 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2020. In the opinion of the Legislative Office of the Sejm, we asked lawyers at today's meeting to clarify these procedures and cases - in principle that the subsequent amendment excludes the earlier, the provision proposed in the Parliament's draft law regulates precisely the time limit for the submission of applications and does not lead to legal contradiction of the provisions in question, and prevents the chronological gap which would arise between 1 January 2016 and the date of entry into force of the law. Hence, the Committee on Infrastructure submits to the High Sejm to reject the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u121	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Puda will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the amendment of the Senate of 4 August this year. to the Law amending the Law on special rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, which was adopted by the Sejm on 21 July this year. The intention of the Sejm behind this amendment is so-called. the airport specialty was the extension of the deadline by which the airport was established, the airport manager or the Polish Air Navigation Agency may submit an application for a decision to authorise the implementation of an investment in the field of public service airport. The proposed amendment extended the deadline until 31 December 2020. I would like to remind you that this law sets out the rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in airports of public use. In particular, it is about the construction, reconstruction or expansion of airports and facilities and air traffic facilities. Even if it were to be accepted that there is a contradiction between the provisions of the amended law, the rule is that the law is later repeals the earlier act. The proposed Senate amendment amends the wording of the Article. 4 for: Application referred to in Article. 3 may be submitted no later than 31 December 2020. Unfortunately, in our view, the proposed amendment cannot be adopted in such a form, since the provision of the law which expired at the end of 2015 cannot be amended as it would not be in line with the principle of non-retroactivity. Therefore, when rejecting the Senate amendment, the allegation of retroactivity cannot be raised effectively. Therefore, we do not believe that it is justified to adopt the proposed amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żmijan will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Special Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, on the resolution in print No 783. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Both the law amended by the High Sejm and the Senate amendment have the same intentions. Two Chambers differ in the philosophy of writing. The idea is to extend the operation of this very good law in the field of airport infrastructure, to extend its life until the end of 2020. The Senate of the Republic of Poland indicates that there may be a contradiction between the provisions of the amended law. My club doesn't share that opinion. We will vote against the Senate amendment, among others. because, or maybe in principle because the law is directed, firstly, to establishing airports, i.e. airports newly built, also to managing airports, i.e. airports existing and requiring modernisation, but also to the Polish Air Navigation Agency. If the Senate of the Republic of Poland were to be adopted, it would certainly be a problem with the requests made between these dates, namely 31 December 2015, when the life of the Act was finished, and sometimes, with the date of adoption and entry into force of the new Act. It's just that these conclusions would go into a vacuum, you'd have to repeat them, and so on. And because this law is so important and makes it possible, in particular, to modernise airport infrastructure, but also to invest by the Polish Air Navigation Agency, we will vote in favour of maintaining the wording of the law adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was my honor to present the position of the Kukiz club15. As we argued during the process of this law, we said that it was necessary. The air market is changing, our airports should be competitive, air traffic, logistics, transport, tourism is actually changing from month to month. We all remember what our regional airports looked like a few years ago, and what they look like today, and this wave is going to be even bigger. These airports, which today are scattered around our regions, also need to take over and take over this important economic, tourism, logistics aspect. In order to simplify these procedures, actually we all voted in favour of this law, all clubs, knowing that such competitiveness must be extended, enlarged and we agreed here. I believe, too, as my honourable previous speaker has already said, that the Senate had good intentions, he wanted, in his opinion, to improve this bill, to make sure that there was no unnecessary turn, a bump in the process of this important economic aspect related to airports, but it is unnecessary. I, too, believe that, as Kukiz,15, we believe that this law in this form, which we have adopted quite recently, is correct, correct and that we should continue to do so. We will vote in favour of our parliamentary solutions. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Modern Club will be presented by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Special Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports, as published in print No. 783, in conjunction with the position of the committee in print No. 797. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, this law will add a new article. 4a to the so-called an airport specialty. In line with the reasons put forward by the applicants, this article will introduce a new deadline within which the airport, airport manager or the Polish Air Navigation Agency will be able to apply to the competent voivodeship to issue a decision authorising the implementation of an investment in the field of public service airport. The provisions in force so far laid down that these applications could only be submitted until 31 December 2015, i.e. today no longer be submitted. On the other hand, the Act adopted by the High House on 21 July and subsequently forwarded to the Senate provided that the proposal could be submitted from the date of entry into force until 31 December 2020. That's good, because the airport is a kind of window to the world for the local community. It is an improvement in the availability of transport around the port, it is also an impetus for development in new areas. It is an increase in the investment attractiveness of the region, it is an opportunity for faster transport to new markets. It is an opportunity to travel faster in business matters, as well as wider opportunities for private travel. It is difficult to overestimate the importance of this type of investment for any region in which such investment will arise. At the same time, it must be strongly stressed that the aviation market in Poland has significantly more potential than is currently being generated. So it's a growth field, which is very, but it's very big. All of this, of course, justified the adoption of this law and it seemed that the Senate's amendments would not be met by the High House. However, the Senate adopted the amendment at its meeting on 4 August following the review of the Act. According to the resolution presented, this amendment consists in the removal of Article. 4a, which is, so to speak, the clou law adopted by the Sejm, and in return for this determination of a new date in the current Article specialization. 4, of course, the date in accordance with Article 4 of the Sejm. 4a, this is 31 December 2020. According to the reasons put forward by the Senate, the amendment aims to give a new wording to the article. 4 laws and avoid contradictions between the provisions of the amended law. The Senate pointed out that the addressees of the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in airports in the absence of this amendment would receive two contradictory provisions - one currently existing in the Act, as defined in Article. 4 where the date of submission of the application [[♪ The bell ♪]] is defined at 31 December 2015 and a new Article. 4 setting a new date. Unfortunately, as has already been said in the committee, it is not possible to amend a law that is already in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u129	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u130	You can't change the law backwards, therefore the Club The Modern Members will vote against the Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u131	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Members' Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I present the position of my parliamentary club. I would like to say and declare that we will vote in favour of upholding this version which the High House has adopted here, because these opinions and statements, which have come as a justification for the validity of the proposal, the correctness of the objectives, the good preparation of the provisions, in our view guarantee, are good in terms of meeting those assumptions that we have set ourselves in the national strategy. They concerned the development of infrastructure, primarily one of the elements of internal and external communication of the country, the importance of this factor for economic and social development through the development of air transport. Therefore, we believe that the records that have been drawn up as a result of Parliament's work are appropriate. It should be stressed here that the intention of the Senate is also going in the right direction, but for the sake of clarity and clarity, we will vote in favour of maintaining this version and rejecting the Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan has the floor on behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the Senate resolution on the Law on Special Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The amendment to the contested bill proposed by the Senate is of a technical nature. By accepting the Senate's logical argument that if the relevant amendment is not accepted, the addressees of the bill will receive two contradictory provisions, the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u135	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland (prints Nos 793 and 799). I ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The report is in print No 799, the draft act - in print No 793. Mr. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were sent on 2 September this year. the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development held its first reading today at its morning meeting. We have analysed the situation concerning African swine fever in Poland, the problem which this infectious swine disease generates for Polish production, for Polish agriculture. In the vote, all the members of the committee unanimously supported the draft law, although we judge different ways of fighting against ASF in Poland, also the rank of individual vectors of the spread of this disease, the measures applied. There have also been criticisms of the parts of the MEPs in terms of the lack of imagination of individual political teams, who did not fully know what to do in such a situation, and solutions from other countries are not always able to be easily transferred to Polish soil. However, we have come to the clear conclusion as the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that this additional, important, special and specific tool requested by the government must be adopted because this law allows meat from healthy pigs from protection zones to be purchased in a non-target manner; there are different statuses of these zones. The problem is not only the situation of sick pigs - it is clearly described in international and national regulations - but also what to do with those animals that are on farms located in zones. So far, there has been a problem with the development of valuable pork meat from these zones, because private entrepreneurs have not been interested in buying in, and the ability of public finance operators to buy in was limited by the need for complex tendering procedures. This law, once again, as a special, extraordinary tool for the government to be able, through negotiations, to select entities - from the Ministry's information, it appears that they are already willing to do so - to order them to slaughter and process the meat of animals from flocks located in protection zones is an important and acceptable solution by Members. This, of course, is not the only solution. A new large law is announced which will regulate the rules for dealing with situations such as this unprecedented problem of African swine fever in Poland. On the other hand, today it is important to solve the problem of the development of these animals and under different conditions, detailed and described, this law introduces such solutions. Therefore, the Committee on Agriculture, after first reading and considering this draft law, as I mentioned, at its meeting today, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u137	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the Act on Special Solutions for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in print Nos 793 and 799. This project is processed in a very fast, extraordinary mode, because that is the need of the moment. The epizootic situation of ASF in Poland is extremely dynamic and requires extraordinary decisions, including those related to lawmaking. The main objective of the bill is to ensure the possibility of developing products of animal origin intended for human consumption, produced from meat of virus-free pigs, i.e. healthy but present in areas where restrictions have been introduced due to the presence of this virus in Poland. Poland is required, in accordance with European Union decisions, to take specific measures in designated areas to combat and prevent the spread of the virus. These recommendations also apply to healthy animals and aim primarily at eliminating the risk of the spread of ASF virus and the emergence of its new outbreaks. It should be stressed that, in the case of this disease, even sick animals do not pose any risk to humans, the more any risk to human health and life does not create healthy animals from areas subject to restrictions, as well as meat from such animals or products made from them. Meat coming from such areas before processing and placing on the market shall be subjected to a detailed examination carried out by veterinarians and specially marked. The pigs free from ASF virus may therefore be slaughtered and the meat obtained from them may be further processed, processed and placed on the market. These conditions underpin the proposed legal changes which eliminate unnecessary barriers to the marketing of processed pig meat from healthy pigs kept in areas where cases of ASF have been identified. This elimination of barriers will consist in the non-application of the provisions of the Law of 29 January 2004. The right to procurement for the supply of meat products exclusively from pig meat originating only from pigs kept at least 2 months prior to slaughter in agricultural holdings located in areas covered by orders, prohibitions, restrictions and other control measures. The order under this procedure will only be awarded to operators who produce food in accordance with the veterinary rules in force and the meat products they order themselves must comply with the veterinary requirements laid down in the rules on products of animal origin. Operators interested in the performance of the contract will be required to purchase pigs at net prices not lower than the net purchase prices of hot mass in the relevant class of the EUROP classification scale in the region in which the pigs have been acquired or an intermediate price for all classes in live weight in the region. This will ensure that a specific balance is maintained between contracting stakeholders and pig producers and eliminate solutions that could exploit their difficult situation. In order to apply this derogation, it will be necessary for the contracting authorities to demonstrate that the subject matter of the contract is related to safety and public order, to life or to human health or that the amount of the contract is less than the amounts set out in the Public Procurement Law. These amounts are less than 135 000. EUR or 209 000. the euro, depending on the legal status of the enterprise. The Act will allow for action in this area without the characteristics of freedom and will ensure transparency of the contracts awarded. It shall also describe the requirements to be met by the applicant. The situation in Poland concerning ASF is specific and requires specific solutions to mitigate the adverse effects of this disease also in the economic sphere. These solutions will benefit both farmers and will mitigate the particularly difficult situation of food-producing operators from such meat, so they will bring tangible benefits for the economy and the labour market as a whole. The alternative in the event of excessive disposal difficulties, the destruction of meat from healthy pigs from restricted areas is, in our view, an alternative incomparably worse. With all these arguments in mind, the Law and Justice Club will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u139	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we received print number 793 and worked on the committee. This is, as the Minister claims, the first of the group of laws to not only counteract the effects of the virus, but also stop the virus. We're a little surprised to see that these big announcements, for a month that has passed since the virus spread so quickly, are only getting one piece, with which it's generally hard to disagree, but which doesn't solve anything at all. This is merely a statutory amendment concerning the fact that processing establishments will be able to freely sell pig meat products they produce from areas that are occupied by that disease. That's it. There is no guarantee of who will buy from farmers, it is not known whether the bets will want or not. These opposition questions raised in the committee only met with a rather arrogant answer that the previous governments had left unprepared laws. I thought you would prepare a whole package of laws - you had a month - that would help not only process, but also buy, give inspection tools and many other things. It's hard to disagree with the fact that you can sell. We don't know who's gonna buy it, who's gonna sell it, and what's gonna happen with African disease. I would like to ask - once again, since I did not get an accurate response at the committee meeting, because you did not explain this precisely - what areas, what zones, how long these zones will be in place. You said yourself that the zones are different, that from all zones you can buy. So here is the situation that in a given city, there will be a zone that has limitations, but after 30 days it will cease to apply, and then the farmer will no longer be able to sell in intervention. These questions come up and this is not clearly explained, because it is not a coherent material that shows how we will organise intervention buying-in, how we will process the meat, where we will sell it or where we will place it after processing. The next question concerns the lack of clear funding, because I understand that some will be financed. There is a danger of compensation. There are many questions to which this statutory amendment does not give us an answer. This is just, as I say, a very small piece of Lego, a very small piece of Lego in a really big building that needs to be created to deal with such a rapidly spreading virus that you, I dare say, have spread in 15 cases since 2015. That's a huge amount. This is the amount which can cause economic collapse in agriculture and which can cause the elimination of pig farming in Poland. We therefore receive a small document. Of course we will support this document. However, it is only a small clipping, and we expect the whole thing to be done. It was not anyone other than the Minister who claimed that he had all the possible instruments prepared for implementation and that he was able to control African disease. My question: Isn't it the loosening of many, but it's a lot of zone requirements, the loosening of surveillance that made it 18 out of two outbreaks where the virus was kept for two years? Explain to farmers what they will do in zones that will grow, what will happen to farmers from the next voivodships, and how long the incompetence will be the reason that the virus will spread towards the largest farms in Poland, that is, towards the western border. It's the farmers over there today who are trembling and begging to do anything here. And there's no more political discussion here. Here is a post-political discussion about what will happen to pig breeding in Poland and what will happen to farmers who based their entire achievements on the creation of Polish pig breeding. All these questions are of great concern to us. We would like to ask the Minister again from this speaker. We want answers, we want the Minister to clearly explain and show us, not a small part, and the operational plan of action, which should be a great programme, a great print showing changes in all the rules that must be brought in this dramatic situation. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are in favour of this bill as a club. However, I am very sorry that we have to proceed with this bill at all. The reason for its preparation and possible adoption by Parliament is the failure of the previous government to cope with ASF disease. The current government is taking a lot of action, but it is incredibly ineffective. Last year, the disease concerned boars and three small farms. Since the end of July this year, 15 cases of virus outbreaks have been reported on agricultural holdings. So far, 18 ASF outbreaks have been detected in Poland, and the disease has gone outside the Podlaskie Voivodeship, and has appeared in farms in Lubelskie and Mazowieckie Voivodships. The ASF problem, which was not solved in time, which was ignored and marginalized, today exploded with double force. On this occasion, it came to light how poorly the relevant veterinary services have dealt with it, which should have been fully prepared for such an eventuality for years. We have a lot of problems on individual markets, recently on the cereal market. If, as a result of ASF, we reduce even more and so low the pig population, farmers will have to grow tulips instead of cereals. Over the last few years Poland has become its importer from a powerful pig exporter. In 2014, 220 thousand cattle were raised. agricultural holdings, which means that their number decreased by as much as 71% compared to 2002. It is unacceptable for me to see the position of the ministry, whose representatives say that in Spain the ASF has been fighting for decades, suggesting that Poland is facing a similar scenario. If we can't deal with the disease itself, or wild boars, then the problems we have today are going to have to deal with for many, many years. The Polish state has not reached the level of the task so far, it has not dealt with this disease with proper accuracy, so I ask the government to prepare at an equally express rate a bill that will eliminate the population of feral pigs east of the Vistula in the current year, because the actions that follow ASF disease are very costly for the budget and do not produce any results. It is important to look ahead and not to propose ad hoc solutions. The ASF should not be chased, it should be controlled, and the only way to regain control of the disease is to eliminate wild boars. Otherwise, like Spain, it will be necessary to ban the general breeding of pigs, and the production of pigs will have to be transferred to several huge combinations. I am aware that it may be problematic for some Members to eliminate the wild boar's head because it will be necessary to hunt for more difficult game. But for me, and I hope for the majority of the parliament, the good of farmers, the good of the Polish economy is more important. The proposed law should be adopted, as at the moment numerous farms in endangered zones cannot sell farmed animals. But I would stress that it is not a very expensive solution to pursue ASF disease. A huge experiment is currently underway throughout the country. It is perhaps intended to find the art of wild boar immune to ASF at the expense of farmers and the national economy. I hope that this scenario does not come true and that the risk of ASF disease spreading in a short time will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u143	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Polish Parliamentary Club... Sorry, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, on behalf of the Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Since the onset of ASF disease in Poland we have 109 cases of ASF in feral pigs and 18 outbreaks in pigs, of which, already here, 14 appeared in the last period, the holiday period. This clearly shows that the situation has unfortunately gotten out of hand with our rulers. The current government and its policies are responsible for the spread of the disease. No one but just Law and Justice and Minister Jurgiel told Polish farmers during last year's election campaign that policy towards ASF is too restrictive and needs to be loosened. Today we have this effect, ladies and gentlemen. So the basic question that needs to be asked today is whether we want to continue Polish agriculture in such a populist way or take responsibility for the fact that the milk spilled and wanted to clean it up. It is true that the previous government did not kill, so to speak, the problem in the bud, did not put the problem out in the bud, but the current government unfortunately added oil to the fire. Unfortunately, it is true that the solution presented today, although the Modern Club will support it, will not solve the problem. In our view, the law proposed today by Law and Justice is a drop in the sea of needs and does not completely solve the problem. If today the Minister says that there will be further laws, I apologize, but at the moment we are here today, we should have a number of ready-made laws and a comprehensively-solved problem. What do we expect from the government? You have to take radical steps without looking at whether you lose a few votes in the country or not. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the experience of other countries clearly shows that only a comprehensive, radical and rapid action has solved the problem. In other cases, there is no pig production in the country today. An irresponsible government policy can lead to this. Mass wildfire must be carried out by organizing collective hunting in areas at risk and subject to restrictions. Pigs should be slaughtered as close as possible to the place where they are reared. Of course, we're talking about an area near the outbreak. The compensation should be paid to farmers and the low price absolutely cannot be an incentive to buy pigs and continue to process them. We need to introduce a permanent mark for pigs. The best method is earring, which worked well in Denmark, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom. [[It's a pig ring.]] Unfortunately, even if it costs a little, it must be introduced to monitor the movement of animals as well. Without this, we cannot control the further spread of the virus, ladies and gentlemen. The real isolation of farms must be enforced from farmers by applying mats before entering, which will ensure disinfection. Unfortunately, today we know what the controls show, which is also hidden under the rug, that it is fiction. There is also a need for rapid farmers' education at the moment. The recent cases were e.g. the result of the use to the bedding for pigs of straw by the winter stored under the forest in which wild boars wintered. A situation that shouldn't have happened. It is also worrying that, in the face of the spreading ASF PiS, it wants to reform the veterinary inspection and is unfortunately to be accompanied by a reduction in management powers. I have the impression that, unfortunately, once again, this is not about any reform of veterinary inspections that will improve the operation of this service, but simply about the exchange of party cards and the filling of stools by their colleagues. Making such movements today, when we have such a problem with ASF in Poland, it is completely irresponsible by the rulers. Ladies and gentlemen, ASF is not just a problem for farmers from Eastern Poland. This is the problem of the entire food sector in Poland using pork meat. If an export ban is imposed on Poland, all products containing pig meat, not only half-carcasses, will apply, as you know. As all producers will start pushing their products on the domestic market, the price will fall dramatically and farmers will lose even more. And you will be responsible for your irresponsible policy. This country will explain to the farmers why it happened. The irresponsible policy of Minister Jurgiel can therefore kill another agricultural sector in our country, and the Polish village cannot afford it, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Minister, we ask for concrete and comprehensive solutions, not a drop in the sea of needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u145	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of this problem and this debate today, I have immense humility and baggage of experience. I would like to remind you that the first outbreaks, the first sources that appeared in February 2014, were kept within their borders without spreading them for more than two years only in three counties, 15 km from the border with Belarus. As the Polish People's Party, we will not interfere with law and justice in legislation and in the creation of new laws. I just want to say that the current rules of both the World Health Organisation and the European Union, and those we adopted in the previous term, have allowed effective protection of farms against this disease and have also allowed for effective and substantial re-financing of losses in the event of outbreaks and the need to eliminate stocks on individual farms. All you had to do was use them. And if they are insufficient, just as Minister Bogucki tried to justify it today, we will support the bill and the bill of follow-up, but we would like them not to be a pretext and an excuse to justify a huge sequence of omissions, omissions from the scope of law and legislation. 'Cause if you hadn't relaxed your discipline, maybe there wouldn't be any more bonfires. So today it is really necessary to take radical action already in a much larger area, but it is also necessary to have funds in the budget, and it is worth that Minister Jurgiel finds such acceptance of the Minister of Finance, because without radical and rapid action unfortunately, here I look at Mr Ajchler - Wielkopolska, and Mr Ardanowski - Kujawsko-Pomorskie, they will be able to experience the same thing that the Podlaskie voivodeship has been experiencing for months or more than 2 years. I would also like to tell farmers that it is not true what happened today in the Signals of the Day that this disease only applies to the Podlaskie voivodship. She is already in the Mazowieckie voivodship, she is already in the Lublin voivodship and it is not worth relaxing discipline among farmers and inspection services, saying that nothing is happening. Yes, this disease is not dangerous for us people, it is not dangerous for consumers, but this disease is taken very seriously by the World Health Organization and poses a major threat to breeding, breeding in this animal production sector in Poland, which has been the weakest for years, so it would be good for today, without the political responsibility to take effective action and not faked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u147	Thank you very much. The questions were joined by MEPs, eight Members signed up. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for two minutes. Please, Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Farmers from Kujaw, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship are very concerned about this debate, and were even more concerned when they found out that the transport of 32 dead pigs from the Rębieszewo fire was sent to the rendering plant in Jezuicka Strude near Inowrocław, in the middle of Kujaw, in the middle of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, in which many farms and breeding farms operate, but also processing plants, and this is a very dangerous thing. It was probably the first of this type of transport, the second one was sent to Śmiłow, but the first transport was made to these areas, a transport which was very negatively assessed by specialists, because ASF is a disease that is insanely spreading and directing this type of transport of carcasses in the center of an area with a high degree of intensity of pig production is, let me put it simply, some kind of madness. And, ladies and gentlemen, how can you export such transport to Kujawy near the border with Wielkopolska just because the rendering plants on the eastern wall have no processing power? How was it secured, Minister? Who made the decision? Was it the only transport or are those pigs still being transported? Who will take responsibility for this if there is now any ASF fire in Kujawy or on the route of this transport? This is the end of pork exports, this is the end actually agricultural production, because to Wielkopolska it is really a stone's throw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The farmers from Kujawy are very concerned, and the farmers from Wielkopolska were also terrified of this information. That's why I'm asking the Minister to tell you whether any of the Ministry of Agriculture knows about this transport...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u149	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u150	...and who personally decided to put farmers and farmers in such danger...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u152	... Kujaw's in jeopardy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u153	The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Less than a year ago we heard, also from this speaker, that the previous government is taking very restrictive measures to combat the epidemic of African swine fever, and that this brings great losses to our agriculture. Today we have the beautiful effects of this relaxation that has appeared. This bill, I understand, is a specific, desperate gesture from you to save the day. Of course, we will support it, but we see a clear movement of the fever limit. Is this project the only proposal from the Ministry in this regard? Is there any comprehensive bill prepared to secure the Polish society in this regard, because it is not a question of the fact that it is only about farmers, it is a question of the loss of the Polish society? Please note: What funds and part of the budget will be allocated for intervention? Who's gonna decide which bets they're buying? If they do not want to lead it, how and who will decide that it must be carried out? Ladies and gentlemen, we are all happy about this today and we stress the fact that it is a harmless disease for man. Yes, it is a disease that is harmless to man. But, ladies and gentlemen, there are doctors in this room, and I'm a doctor. so-called. human, but there is also a veterinarian, a veterinarian - with viruses, and especially with haemorrhagic fever viruses, it is so that they unfortunately mutate and we never know when they will become dangerous to man as well. Therefore, with great caution, with great concern we should address this subject, not in a political way, with self-pretence, but, ladies and gentlemen, you have failed, give a concrete proposal, and we will really support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u155	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is serious. African swine fever, a bit like Egyptian plagues, can effectively destroy pig breeding in Poland. [[That's right.]] What was our great economic asset could end in front of us. Therefore, the discussion on the effective protection of Polish agriculture against ASF is absolutely justified. Of course, there are many questions. Why did the virus from the middle of black Africa appear in Eastern Europe during the Russian invasion of Georgia? What were the directions of movement? How did it turn out he was in Poland? There is also conflicting information as to whether or not to haunt borders, whether wild boars are vectors or not - there is conflicting information on this subject, some underestimate the role of wild boars, others overestimate the role of wild boars - whether the human factor, which could be a vector for the movement of the virus, was more important than the issue of wild boars. There is also comparison with countries that have managed to cope with the virus in some way. Examples of Italy, Spain or Belgium are not entirely transferable in Poland, even because there were no wild boars in some of these countries. [[The structure is different.]] So there are many questions, and these questions will also have to be answered. And I think if there were negligence on the part of the people, then the proper services must also explain these negligence. Now it is about how to prevent spread, and here we need both the activities of the state authorities, the Veterinary Inspection, as well as the awareness of farmers regarding the rank and role of bioinsurance, not to ignore it. It seems that we come to the conclusion that if there is no joint effort between the state and the citizens, then this is the problem. We can't handle it. The fact that this virus has been uncontrollably moving so far also indicates the weakness of the state. If it was decided to shoot off wild boars, why were we unable to do so? Do we not have opportunities as a state? Maybe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The wrong location of the Polish Hunting Union is also a problem here. There's a lot of questions. I would like this discussion not to focus on stating who is guilty, but on how to act together in this dramatic situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u157	Thank you. Now you are asking Mr Stanisław Żmijan, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is difficult to disagree with what Mr Ardanowski just said. However, during the debate different thesis were formulated, namely the questions of what the predecessors, the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL, were doing. I am the short answer: Yes, that is what Minister Sawicki said about it - he effectively protected against the spread of sources. Two sources of the virus have been effectively protected for almost 2 years. [[Three.]] It took eight months, we have 18 sources, which means the virus is spreading, and that's what we need to focus on today. And a request to the Minister and to the Presidents. This is the fundamental concern of the state, it is no longer possible to tell the public that the previous ones are guilty, it is simply your fault. My question to the Minister. Minister, this project is indeed the first step, but another one is needed, and it is very, very quickly done. Namely, that we effectively protected against the spilling of these fires, among others. the effective operation of local authorities involved in this process. But local governments have very modest financial resources for this purpose. Minister, more money is needed for protection and the advice given by one of the previous speakers to quickly take the next steps to the Minister of Finance is simply justified. And one more thing. If you believe that you will deal effectively with this problem through the Polish solution [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Hunting Union, I believe, and allow me to point out that you are completely not prepared to deal with such important matters as the African swine fever virus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u159	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! After today's proceedings, very turbulent, agricultural committees, I think you know that this situation is extraordinary and requires extraordinary decisions. The law we are debating today is needed, but in my opinion it is a shame with regard to the package of laws that we should adopt because of the gravity of the situation, you should adopt. I repeat: she's a disgrace, because she's exhausted only by a beam, let's call it a problem. What I'm trying to say, Minister, is that I have a document in front of me that shows that the transport of dormant animals infected with the virus has been transported by a boat container with a tarp. Minister, what if there was a traffic accident? This is extremely irresponsible. That's why I wanted to ask, Minister. I have a question: When will the Minister's regulations arise, which will give enormous powers to police, veterinary services, veterinarians, transport inspections? They're needed like air, like oxygen. When will the controls be carried out by the services that are already in place? The command issued and unchecked is as if it was not executed. Do you foresee prevention in areas where there is no disease yet? I'm talking about other parts of the country, like the Vistula. Prevention is always cheaper than the costs that need to be actually borne. You know very well that if you cross this disease, this Vistula virus, we will talk about 25 billion PLN [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the state budget, and I don't know if that's enough. The seriousness of this situation is enormous, because, although it is only part of a package of laws, we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u161	Thank you. The question is asked by Robert Telus, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In fact, it provoked me to ask Mrs Dorota Sunday, but... [[I'll be able to relate.]] ...it is precisely that I will not be provoked simply and will not respond to what you have said. I am just a little disappointed that, as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, and by profession, a veterinarian... [[Your veterinarian.]] ...instead of looking at this problem really humbly, like this Minister Sawicki... [[I look with humility.]] ...and not politicize this problem, because it's probably not the best time to politicize this problem, it's really a national matter, no... [[I'm not a politician. I'm a minister.]] ...any party of one or the other... I'm not going to refer at all to what's been going on so far, how many years, because that's not the point, I just want to say that the problem of this disease is very serious, so serious that we should go over political divisions here... [[That's right.]] ...only to fix it, because that's what the state's right-- our state's right-- the state's right-- the state's right. And this is my request from this speaker to all those who are trying to use this very serious problem for political purposes. I think anyone who tries to use it for political purposes will lose it. A question for the Minister. We know that one of the carriers of this virus is wild. Minister, what is the government's idea to limit the population of boars? What's the government's idea for next steps? This is one important step, this bill, special act, but what will be the next steps, it is important that we together prevent this great problem, as I said, because this is what our right state requires, the right national state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u163	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you, sir, for not referring to me. I'm not the one starting politically, I'm calling for us to talk not politically, but substantively. If, after a special team has been convened by the Prime Minister, full of concerns about what is happening, as you can see, in which the ministers have gathered, the people who are responsible for what is happening to this disease and how to prevent the spread of this disease, they will send us only and only such a proposal after a month's work, then I very sincerely congratulate you. I want to hear from the Minister what powers the services are getting, how these services will counteract those elements that cause the virus to spread more rapidly. I'm asking with great concern, and with no political gain, I'm very sorry. I am asking because I am also the president of the subcommittee, which is discussing the merger of inspections, the reform of inspections, and I am very concerned that the project that has been presented to us, which has already been presented to this government, is very dangerous because of the decline of competences. If, in this situation, this service continues to be subject to the Ministry of Agriculture, nothing good will serve it. It is to be a service that controls and protects us from this danger that we have, not a service acting on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, who should in good faith guard the production of pigs in Poland. So once again I appeal: think about a new bill that absolutely does not show... I mean, it best shows how dangerous it is in this situation that we have. I'm asking you to. And once again, I call for a complete set of actions to be sent to us, because if this is just one print that only talks about processing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't change anything in a situation as dangerous as we have. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u165	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. [[Leader.]] Leader.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u166	Ladies and gentlemen! African swine fever is a very, very serious matter. We can't leave the farmers alone, and that's what we've heard. [[Applause]] on the committee. Have you considered an intervention group that has extensive powers, including military, police, of course veterinary services, to have mobile sanitary columns so that it can be slaughtered and disposed of on site so as not to carry this virus? Have you considered the abolition of farmers who grow without notification? Because there is, as you know, a left turn of piglets, and not only, and that can be a very weak point in this state programme. Have you considered helping large producers financially to implement restrictive bioinsurance requirements? And my last question is, what about the manure and manure case? No one's mentioned it, and it could also be the source of the infection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u167	Thank you. The question is asked by Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today in Mazowsze there was a meeting of the crisis staff. It turns out that the virus has already reached Mazowsze, has taken over the districts: ostrłęcki, sokołowski, łosicki, węgrowski and Ostrowski, and is spreading further. This is a consequence, in principle, of the lack of consistency of our services. The set police stations are being run around by breeders, because the fattener is already oversized and no one wants to add to the production. I think that the government should think about how to help these producers, but also increase the controls, which are flying brigades, and don't let go of this control, because everyone is going to be looking for a way to sell to get rid of them, and because of that, the source of infection... [[It's spreading.]] ...reachs an increasing area. I therefore call on the Minister to introduce the situation here, I think, extraordinary, because the danger of breeding and the future of breeding pigs may have consequences... for years to come. Before we rebuild these flocks, before we rebuild production, it's going to be years. We're gonna have to bring it in. And I have a question: Is the government considering an emergency situation? Because the old folks don't have enough money for cold stores right now, for mats that are expensive. And I ask, will the government allocate additional resources to the elders and mobilize hunting wheels for wild boars? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u169	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Jacek Bogucki, Minister of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer the questions that arose during this difficult debate, difficult because the atmosphere is indeed - and here I will agree with Minister Sawicki - a serious one and we must be very humble about this situation. Spain was mentioned, which fought for 35 years and managed by killing more than 2 million pigs in Catalonia, banning any production on farms and creating large, powerful industrial farms that resumed this production. In this way Spain became an exporter of pigmeat. Poland ceased to be an exporter of pigmeat at the same time. We believe that such a direction, in the situation of Polish buildings in the countryside, is difficult to accept, threatens the environment and is not a solution that is possible under Polish conditions. Therefore, while continuing what has been done in this area so far, we believe that it is necessary to protect family farms, good farms, those which already exist in Poland, protecting the environment, but above all protecting the Polish breeding of pigs. And the whole package of actions since the first day that Prime Minister Beata Szydło formed, since Krzysztof Jurgiel became Minister of Agriculture, has been moving in this direction. Firstly, we have tried to fight effectively - and here I answer the question - with an excessive population of wild boars, and in areas where there is a threat of disease development, these actions would lead to a radical reduction of this population. Unfortunately, the solution adopted in the form of voluntary declarations of hunting circles and agreements signed with county veterinarians in the field of wild boar shelling did not result in this objective being achieved. Therefore, among the solutions adopted today at the government meeting in the package of actions contained in the second specialty is the possibility for district veterinarians to impose an obligation to fire wild boars. This should eventually lead to a situation where the wild boar population will be reduced. But we must be aware of how sneaky the virus is and difficult to fight, because surrounded by the sea of Sardinia, the island in relation to the territory of Poland is small, nor can it cope with this problem and even though it would seem that all animals carrying the disease could be killed there and can be recreated from the beginning of breeding, it did not happen. Poland is an open territory. East of Poland, this disease rages in a shocking way. Recent cases in Ukraine, near the Polish border, have caused extraordinary action by the European Commission, among which is the declaration of the European Commission helping Ukraine to counter the development of this disease. We do not know the situation in Russia, Belarus, because the services there do not inform the European services in this regard. The situation is much more difficult than in Poland in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, where stocks of dozens, dozens of thousands of pigs were slaughtered, so this number, which was in Poland until this year - in the case of boars there were about 100 cases, in the case of pigs 3 cases - is really, given the development of this disease in other countries, a small number. But this has led to the emergence of other, new secondary sources of ASF infection, because most of the cases that we are talking about at the moment have of course a primary source: the transfer from boars to pig farms, or actually to piglets, but then there was illegal sale of these piglets, disbanding them after a large part of the Podlaskie voivodeship and buying by farmers without certificates which were already mandatory during that period. So there was a spread of a road that did not exist in Poland before. There are many ways to spread this virus, and it was mentioned here: through straw, through various types of pets. It can also be carried out in some cases - in other countries - through feed. So this really is a very difficult fight because none of the ways will rule out ASF disease in pigs because the virus is within the reach of a given country or it can enter this country from outside its borders. That's what we all need to be aware of. There was no relaxation of discipline. The services have carried out their activities as they have done so far. But maybe over the past two and a half years our fight against ASF has run out of consciousness that it is such a dangerous disease and can so easily move to further herds. Maybe there was a little bit of a whispered information campaign among farmers, that's the problem. Wild boars only at the eastern border, maybe other factors worked. Nor do we exclude sabotage and such a way of spreading this disease, because the competent services are currently investigating this case and the final results are not yet known. It cannot be alleged that, when a large fire was found, an immediate decision was taken to slaughter this stock and to transport it to the nearest establishment engaged in such activities under full safety conditions. You can't accuse because for years, and not for the last 8 months, 10 months or 8 years, but for the last 27 years, the combs have been destroyed in Poland. The obligation to run them is the responsibility of the municipalities. There's no such place as this. And let me remind you that the mentioned Spain buried the animals at the place of slaughter. In Poland there is no basis for doing this. These foundations must also be restored and will be restored in the second project discussed today by the Council of Ministers. There are also no state-owned plants involved in such disposal, because the entire agricultural environment has been privatised as part of the wild privatisation process. This is also the completion of these twenty years of transformation in Poland. Establishments dealing with e.g. such activities should be owned by the State not so that the State makes money from them, but so that, in such difficult situations, there is a mechanism enabling it to execute such an order immediately by voluntary means without looking for a contractor through a tender. Indeed, comprehensive solutions are needed, and under the applicable law, all possible solutions for over one month of disease reappearing in pigs and for months since November. r., have been implemented and undertaken. The issue of animal records also needs to be amended. Here, in answer to further questions, I can say that also in this respect, the project provides for sanctions against farmers who do not mark or report their animals to the system, but on the other hand does not work backwards, and so allows the farmer to register his flocks by the date specified in the law, to arrange their status. Moreover, ahead of the law, we sent a request to all farmers with registered flocks in the area covered by any restriction to verify their data contained in this system, because it was indeed for years that the problem of lack of records and irregularities in them was growing, because in Poland it was up to 270 thousand. holdings declared in the register are 35 000. holdings which have a negative number of pigs. It's physically impossible, it's mathematically impossible, it's agriculturally impossible, but this condition has been tolerated for years and this problem has been getting worse, because every year after that, it's brought more irregularities, more differences between the facts and the records. These turbulent proceedings we have been dealing with today are only part of this storm that is already going on in the country. I've been going all month to meetings with farmers at processing plants. The meetings with the officials were really difficult, but they were substantial. Farmers pointed out these solutions, which they believe should be taken into account in order to resolve the problem, and which should have been taken long ago and without which we will not be able to deal with the problem. So this upset at today's committee meeting is also the result of the situation in which we have been actually in Poland for 3 years, because, as I said, alongside the internal threat, we also have huge threats from the eastern part of Europe, where the problem with ASF is even more complicated. As a result of the interministerial team set up by the government, all services have taken enhanced action in their area of competence. We try to fully control all markets, all possible routes of illegal transport of animals, but we must remember that we live in a democratic country in which moving around the country is not prohibited, is acceptable, and the history of Poland shows that even in difficult times when meat was banned, it was forbidden to raise animals without reporting to the occupation authorities, later the Soviet authorities, earlier the Nazi authorities, Poles dealt with this problem if they had to cope. Therefore, we must equip Polish farmers with support. In addition to the restrictions, there must be support for those who give up small farms, and at the same time support for those who should and must protect their farms because they want to continue breeding pigs, they still want to raise pigs. In this climate, we discussed these issues last Thursday with Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, Commissioner Andriukaitis. The talks were about support as well. The European Commission for Polish activities. There is full understanding, there is full respect for Poland, that Poland can so far defend Europe and a large, significant majority of its territory against the development of this disease. After all, scientific information indicated that the spread of this disease occurs at a rate of between 100 km and several hundred kilometers per year. After all, some scientists said a year ago that wild boars weren't meant to be blown away because those sick people were going to die out, I'm sorry, they're dying out, I'm already infected with correctness to a certain extent, they're dying out, and healthy animals are going to come to this place. Scientists learn to fight this disease not only in Poland, but also in the world, and so far the effectiveness is not so great. Professionals learn, servants learn, farmers learn. Unfortunately, Poland has got to learn from its mistakes, it has to learn from its own body. Among the actions that have already been taken and which have already been included in the legislation is a whole set of what you are talking about. In the bill, which I hope will be in the Sejm next week, and today has been or will be adopted by the government, is the solution to the problems of sealing the rotation and shooting wild boars. We are discussing the creation of a program, the principles of a compartment that would allow the separation of farms that would meet very strict breeding conditions, and regardless of what zone would have been created in the area, they would still be able to carry out their activities. It is important to remember that not only in the territory of the free part of Poland, but also in the area where the disease is already rampant among wild boars, and has also appeared among pigs, there are good farms, protected farms, large farms, there are farms which must produce pigs because they have borrowed for this purpose, because they have developed their farms, and they must get the support of the state. This is the set of actions that are being implemented. We have managed to persuade the European Commission to come up with a map. She's available, so if anyone hasn't seen her yet, she's available on the website. [[We do, we do.]] There are precisely marked zones here, but it must be remembered that this largest marked section, marked with stripe lines, is currently covered by the deadline until 15 October, and there are chances that the European Commission will agree to shorten this deadline. The most restrictive restrictions are in the blue zone, which is relatively small. In the red zone and then in the yellow zone there is simply increased care, bioinsurance, there are stricter conditions for animal breeding, but without commercial restrictions. The problem is really serious and the Government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the Ministry of Agriculture under Minister Jurgiel from day one, and from day one, they take him seriously. There has never been a statement by Minister Jurgiel indicating that restrictions need to be reduced, on the contrary, as an opposition, we demanded to increase the shooting of boars, to increase the protection of Poland against this disease. At a time when the disease was not yet in Poland, we demanded to fence the border, which are documents, just look at the transcripts of the 2008 committee meetings, because then information about ASF in the Caucasus arrived in Poland until the present year. So, by taking action against ASF, by taking action to limit its effects... Because this bill is intended to reduce its effects, but also to ensure that illegal trade in pigs in the territory of the voivodships covered by the zones is simply not economically profitable. As soon as we pass this law, it will not make sense for a farmer to drive his pigs out of the area and sell them cheaper if he can obtain a high average price in the region for legal sale from the farm, regardless of the size of the farm. These are solutions that could have been prepared earlier, should have been prepared earlier. But it is also not that farmers and veterinarians remained uninformed. They were, indeed, often confused, disoriented. It was during Minister Jurgiel's role as Minister of Agriculture that clear, decisive and concrete guidelines for the conduct of the services appeared, but also for the first time, leaflets were sent to farmers in colors - such cards as the farmer's behaviour is described if it is in a specific area. It's about how he's supposed to deal with his animals, but it's about what he can count on from the state, what kind of help he can get, what kind of support he's got, how he's got his animals. These actions are able to minimise the risk, but a huge awareness-raising action is indeed needed. We have 1300 thousand in Poland. holdings. We have farms of such varying size that the Polish state is unable to provide daily and permanent veterinary protection or daily and permanent police protection to each of these farms. We do not have such opportunities, therefore we need full awareness and cooperation of four factors: the state and its services, farmers, industry - which is already aware of the risks posed by ASF, for the future of this activity - and widely understood hunting in terms of reducing, minimizing the wild boar population. We also need statutory amendments to this cooperation alongside the actions we have already carried out. It is this change today and this change, which will be a change of several laws and which required a few days longer to prepare it, longer arrangements, longer verifications to meet expectations. That's why I thank you for your substantial work. I'm sorry if it's me sometimes. I raised my voice, but, as I said, the situation is so extraordinary, so much emotion has grown, we have so many problems that we should find a place to cooperate and stop one - attempts to politically exploit this situation. Unworthy are the questions to Minister Jurgiel, unworthy simply the question of where he is, asked publicly in the media, because Minister Jurgiel has not been on leave this year, and during the ASF he works several hours a day, as well as for the entire 10 or 9 months of his duties. All the services are working and trying to limit the effects of this... [[What about transport, Minister?]] [[We're very sorry for your loss.]] ...what happened as a result of the development of this disease in wild boars, because it has developed in wild boars throughout the whole period since the first bonfire broke out. There was not a time when Minister Sawicki said that the disease had been stopped. In the wild, there were more fires every few weeks, every few days. Another wave appeared in pigs, but it is such that definitely the original source had to come from wild boars, because there were no sick pigs in Poland, so it could not move between pig flocks, only a secondary transfer took place between wild boars. If emotions are directed towards cooperation on prevention, information, farmers' warning - but also all those who enter the forest, for example, to collect mushrooms, and then for example. they visit their cousin in the countryside, a pig farmer, because such a way of transferring this disease is also possible - as well as in terms of full protection in every possible source of the spread of this disease... In cooperation with scientists, we are currently developing a catalogue of possible routes for the transmission of this disease, a hierarchical directory: from the most likely to the least probable ones, because such a catalogue has not been developed over the years. This directory is necessary to protect yourself against this disease. [[Minister, he's famous in the world.]] But this catalog is expanding all the time. The experience of the next countries showed that there were much more routes than experts, professionals, and this was seen in other countries' experiences. Experience in the fight against this disease is long, but so far the effectiveness has been very low. In Poland, I am convinced, we are able to fight the ASF effectively, and as long as it is in Poland - limit its effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u171	Thank you very much. Are you the draftsman of the committee now? No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2015 and on the status of respect for human and civil rights (print No 580) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 801). Mr. Adam Bodnar, may I present your information?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u172	Dear Marshal, Dear Members, I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to present the annual information at the meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I have the honour to do this for the first time and I would like to do it with the signal of the most important human rights issues in Poland. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank my colleagues, my alternates and the Ombudsman's Office very warmly for their support, because what I will talk about would not have been possible if it had not been for the active and committed work of my office staff. The Ombudsman shall be the constitutional body which, in accordance with Article, shall be the constitutional body. 208 of the Constitution performs the tasks of upholding civil rights and freedoms, but these tasks are defined not only in the Constitution but also in other normative acts. In this context, particular attention should be paid to the obligations and tasks performed by the Ombudsman's Office under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Torture, Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment. These are tasks in the form of the National Prevention Mechanism, i.e. taking visits to check all places of imprisonment in Poland. Secondly, the Ombudsman is a monitoring body for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and thirdly, the Ombudsman also has equal treatment tasks, which result not only from the Constitution, but also from the Act of 3 December 2010 on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union on equal treatment - here the Ombudsman shares these powers with the government's proxy for equal treatment in accordance with Article. 18 of the Act, the scope of the Ombudsman's action on the grounds of constitutional and statutory competence is different from that of the Government. I would like to stress that I took office on 9 September 2015, so the annual information covers both the actions undertaken by my predecessor, Prof. Irena Lipowicz, as well as my own - from September to December last year. I would like to stress that I have adopted the principle of continuing the activities of the previous ombudsman. I believe that every other spokesman should benefit from the experience, knowledge and expertise of his predecessors and thus strengthen the institution that is intended to serve the citizens. This is particularly important in the case of cases pending before the Constitutional Tribunal. I have decided to continue with all the requests and cases brought by Professor Irena Lipowicz. It is worth noting that in the second half of 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal issued two fundamental judgments: one concerning open pension funds and the other concerning a tax-free amount. This second sentence is particularly important because it has not yet been executed and plans for its execution have not been presented. The sentence is relevant to the poorest not only because of what is contained in it, but also because of the definition of how the article can be interpreted. 30 constitutions on the principle of human dignity, especially in the context of the minimum necessary for existence. It is also worth pointing out that in 2016 the Constitutional Tribunal issued a judgment concerning the provision of a disabled car, which would be adapted to its disability when it comes to passing a driving test. This is a sentence that was also initiated during the previous term of office. Last year, the Ombudsman's office was visited by over 57,000. cases, of which more than 27 thousand. It was new business. The Ombudsman gave 38,000. telephone advice. 21 applications were addressed to the Court, the Ombudsman submitted 12 constitutional complaints, five legal questions and four requests by other entities. The Ombudsman's activities also consisted in directing general speeches, i.e. speeches addressed to the highest state institutions. These were 286 speeches. 60 appeals were filed to the Supreme Court, four legal questions were submitted to the Supreme Court for the resolution of doubts in case law, six actions before the administrative courts, and the Ombudsman joined 12 civil and administrative proceedings. Finally, as part of the action of the National Prevention Mechanism, the Ombudsman visited 121 individuals. It is a relatively small number, given the scale of detention places in Poland. Such places, i.e. prisons, arrests of investigators, police chambers of the child, sobering rooms, shelters for minors, correction facilities, social services houses, psychiatric hospitals, together we have ca. 1800, such a number of visits was possible within the established budget. The Ombudsman's actions focus on a number of different areas that concern infringements of individual rights. The Ombudsman shall cooperate with other bodies which deal with the protection of the rights of the individual. I believe that a real change in respect of the level of respect for civil rights can only be achieved through synergies between the activities of individual institutions, sharing experiences, seeking compatible solutions and convincing politicians to accept them. For example, a number of joint speeches to government bodies were prepared together with the spokesperson on the rights of the child. Mr Mark Michalak and I have called an expert committee on children's rights. non-alination problems. There is quite a lot to be said about the achievements of this committee. Recently, the Ombudsman also participates in the work of the panel on the System analysis, which operates in the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. The task of this team is to identify individual, important problems in the functioning of the state that require wider attention to them, perhaps also to make legislative changes when citizens are clearly affected by unfair rules. The Ombudsman also cooperates with the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions of the Senate. In this context, I am particularly satisfied that the speech by the general spokesperson concerning the amendment of the Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State has obtained the form of the Senate project, and is currently the subject of the Parliament's work, the printing of the Seym No. 665. This legal solution will extend the circle of people who may claim compensation for the use of repression against them during martial law. In addition, this solution introduces the principle of non-preventing such claims. I hope that the Sejm will soon adopt a bill according to a project proposed by the Senate. The Ombudsman has been attending regional meetings since the beginning of his term of office. This is the idea that the Ombudsman should be as close as possible to the citizens. It is based on the fact that every month it goes to one voivodship, where it holds several meetings in various cities important for the functioning of the given voivodship. I try to meet NGOs and identify problems on the spot. In 2015 I started with Zachodniopomorskie voivodship, in 2016 I held a number of meetings in individual voivodships. This is extremely important, because thanks to these meetings it is possible to identify a specific problem, take action, intervene. These meetings often lead to different actions being directed to different ministries. A number of problems and issues can be highlighted as part of the Ombudsman's office's work. I would like to stress that the annual information has about 700 pages and it would not be possible to discuss all general speeches or proposals. On the other hand, I would like to focus on the presentation of those issues which need to be regulated, resolved, rectified and not on the exchange of individual speeches by the Ombudsman. I understand, however, that it is the role of the Ombudsman to signal the most important human rights problems, i.e. the problems that need to be solved. I would like to start with various issues relating to the protection of property rights. Firstly, there are still problems with unclear cooperative law. A lot of citizens are complaining about this. Citizens also face the consequences of energy investments, complain about inappropriate modes or insufficient public consultation, as well as expropriation procedures, especially if expropriations are carried out in the so-called mode. Specialist. Many complaints concern the lack of realization of the right to live on the basis of our constitution, the problems of tenants, including debt, especially tenants of tenants who have been taken over by private owners, long queues to social premises or various kinds of problems connected with the operation of so-called. temporary premises. There is also no comprehensive regulation on reprivatisation in Poland. In this context, I would like to point out that the Sejm of the previous term of office as a result of your efforts. Lipowicz led to the adoption of an amendment to the Penal Code. On 10 September last year, an amendment to the Criminal Code and other laws was adopted, which introduced additional rules of responsibility for harassing tenants, i.e. the answer to the problem with the so-called. Cleaners of tenements. Finally, the issue of homelessness is a major problem. In Poland according to statistical information there are 33 thousand. homeless people. I've asked the government to appoint an attorney for the d.o.b. combating homelessness because it is a problem that falls within the remit of various ministries: the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, and finally the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Unfortunately, it didn't work out. The government did not appoint such a proxy. On the other hand, within the framework of the Ombudsman's Office of the Commission of Experts on the We are trying to take various kinds of action against Homelessness, interventions, and we are also sending proposals to the Constitutional Court on this. To appreciate this, I would like to emphasise that the Sejm deserves to regulate the distance between wind power stations and homes. A lot of people complained about this problem to the Ombudsman's office. Also during my meetings in Suwałki many people talked about it. It seems to me that this is a step in the right direction, that the German standard, because in Germany such a standard applies, was introduced into Polish law. Finally, I would like to point out that many of the problems that are related to the broader sphere of civil law and family law concern respect for rights in divorce proceedings. I would like to recommend that in Poland an institution of special proxy for a child be introduced in divorce proceedings, i.e. that the child should not be the subject of a dispute between parents or in a sense an argument in dispute, but that it should have its representative. The length of proceedings before family courts and the lack of systematic support for family courts are also a problem. If we're talking about the justice system, it's the length of time for everyone to act. It seems to me that one way to remedy this problem would be to regulate and fund judicial institutions. Prosecutions often cause many misunderstandings, many problems when it comes to judicial proceedings. It is also necessary to amend the Act on a complaint for the length of proceedings, a law which allows citizens to complain when their rights are not sufficiently respected as regards the right of an independent court to consider the case within a reasonable period of time. Finally, a lot of issues that are related to the functioning of the justice system concern respect the rights of persons affected by intellectual and mental disabilities. To a large extent, thanks to the Ombudsman's activity and the cassations brought before the Supreme Court, it has been possible to publicise and show the problem of the use of protective measures in criminal proceedings, i.e. a situation in which the court, due to the insanity of the perpetrator, is failing to act and decides to refer the perpetrator to a psychiatric hospital for the purpose of applying a protective measure. And the whole system would work properly if such a referral were to involve actually serious acts, or if, first of all, they had adequate defence support, and if the courts were to reliably verify the extension of their stay in a psychiatric hospital. And these two cases, which were particularly publicised by the media, Mr. Felix's case and Mr. Krystian's case, showed how the system could not work as it should. I am pleased that thanks to the Ombudsman's speech it was also possible to fix the act on the electronic surveillance system, i.e. the law on so-called. The bracelets, because there was a certain danger that this bill would not work as it should after the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure came into force last year. I would like to stress that in Poland the issue of the maximum period of application of the provisional arrest is required. The case of the supporter Maciej Dobrowolski, in whom I was also involved, showed very clearly what could lead to the lack of identification in the Polish almost maximum period of temporary arrest. The issue of health protection is an important subject of the Ombudsman's activities, which he takes up himself, but also in cooperation with the ombudsman. The problem of queues, the problem of medical staff shortages, the problem of doctors' working time, as recently revealed by your Whitegard anesthesiologist, these are serious issues. These are also individual problems, you can say, but they point to systemic problems. Such a problem is, for example, that in Poland we are not dealing with a systemic pain treatment program, that pain treatment is not considered to be a problem to be addressed, and that is also related to what I am requesting, namely the availability of medical marijuana. Here, from the very beginning of my term, my speech, I have recently presented... the last speech was due to the well-known case of Mr Kalita. There is a lot of work to be done in Poland when it comes to business rights. The particular problem that arises is the problem of applying administrative sanctions to entrepreneurs. Administrative sanctions are, in principle, an interesting instrument, because they allow for a high efficiency of administration, but often their amount, the lack of consideration of guilt, the lack of consideration of whether or not someone might have eliminated the causes of some kind of infringement, the lack of an assessment of the proportionality of sanctions - all of which raises doubts as to their overly widespread application. Moreover, there is also a problem of double criminality, namely that sometimes the same act regulated, for example, by the Road Transport Act, bears both administrative responsibility and criminal responsibility. In this respect, I have entered into some cooperation with professional authorities and legal associations, but I would also like to stress that some of the cases pending before the tribunal are concerned, including a rather fundamental case concerning the collection of a driving licence for speeding in an area built above 50 km/h. This case can only be interpreted as referring to the area of road traffic, but in fact its essence is based on the issue of administrative sanctions. Finally, as regards the problems of entrepreneurs, these are various tax problems, such as the application of the principle in dubio pro tributario, this also relates to the question of the competence of the tax authorities to interrupt the limitation period. Many issues that are addressed in the Ombudsman's office concern the protection of the right to privacy. Here it is still clear that we have a problem with the quality of control over special services in the field of billing, IT data, the use of wiretapping and the use of operational control. Unfortunately, in Poland there is no independent authority to control the activities of special services in so far as this could enter the sphere of civil rights and freedoms. The issue of the use of video surveillance is not regulated. This is also a big problem that NGOs and the spokesperson have been paying attention to for years. There are still problems regarding access to public information, but also problems relating to such political rights and freedoms as electoral rights, for example the availability of electoral premises for people with disabilities and voting arrangements for people who remain outside the country, national election observers, the institution of national election observers, and finally the collection of signatures for the European citizens' initiative. And these are the issues I have addressed to the relevant authorities. As regards the functioning of the National Prevention Mechanism and the standards of deprivation of liberty, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. First of all, standards in places of imprisonment. I mean overcrowding, especially in the therapeutic centers where the prisoners are staying, that's health protection, that's the issue. treatment of prisoners of category N. The question arises as to whether all persons who are in prisons and arrests should be there. For example, some of the cases that have been discussed in our public space have provoked the Ombudsman's office to identify all persons with intellectual and mental disabilities who are in prisons and detentions. We have managed to reach out to all these people and to see if they should actually be there, and in relation to some of them we have taken action, especially when those persons during the criminal trial did not have a guaranteed right to defend themselves or when we could prove that there was a suspicion that the person was not insane at the time of the act, and this was not identified by the court. Much attention needs to be paid to improving the functioning of juvenile correction facilities and shelters. And we are also looking forward to the changes announced by the Ministry of Justice in the case of minors. Finally, I managed to organise meetings and conferences in the Ombudsman's office, as well as a few speeches concerning the implementation in Poland of recommendations resulting from the Istanbul protocol. This is a document. The UN, which calls for appropriate standards for dealing with those who claim to have been victims of torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, and their research. I hope that these standards will be fully implemented in Poland. As regards the labour sphere and the right to work and freedom of trade unions, I would like to stress that many of the Ombudsman's demands have been met. It seems to me that a very important issue is that in Poland there is a clear change in the approach to civil law contracts. This was the case with one of my first speeches to Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz and I am glad that the government is taking this issue very intensively. I am referring here to both the minimum wage rules and the membership of persons employed under civil law agreements in trade unions or, finally, to the strengthening of the powers of the State Labour Inspection. I would also like to draw attention to the revision of the Public Procurement Law and to the increasing application of social clauses which force the employment of persons by public administrations on the basis of employment contracts. On the other hand, there are still a few issues to be met. This is, for example, a matter of regulating the status of a whistleblower, i.e. a person who informs about certain matters in the public interest, that is, an institution so-called. Whistleblower, or finally the issue of support for carers of people with disabilities. Here we still have two judgments of the Constitutional Court which relate to this issue and which have not yet been fully executed. I would like to draw attention, speaking of persons with disabilities, to the fact that they constitute, these persons and the problems of individual, different groups of persons with disabilities, an important part of the work of the Ombudsman's office. I am pleased that on 28 June this year, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a fundamental judgment concerning the placement of persons incapacitated in social assistance homes. Here I would like to stress that this is a case that has already been initiated by my motion, and the tribunal has already delivered a judgment. The sentence has also been published. The point is that it is not possible to place persons incapacitated in the DPS solely on the basis of a guardian's decision. There's gotta be a court order for that. On the other hand, I would like to point out that if we looked at individual groups of people with disabilities, it would be clear that each of them needs basically a separate kind of support, that in Poland we are still dealing with the fact that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is not respected enough, is not respected enough. I would like to mention, for example, the rights of deaf people, who in many different fields require support, whether in terms of access to work or academic education or social benefits, or the use of banks, or the use of sign language in contacts with public administrations. I hope that the Polish government will decide to ratify the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is an extremely important protocol, because it allows, gives the possibility to submit individual complaints to the UN external committee, which deals with issues. The Spanish and Hungarian experience shows that these are extremely important issues. The Ombudsman's Office also deals with the subject of national and ethnic minorities and migrants. Unfortunately, we are seeing a situation of racial and ethnic violence. It may also be worrying that there are cases concerning the application of the Article. 256 and Art. 257 Penal Code. I welcome the recent statements by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and President Andrzej Duda expressed in the context of the anniversary of the Kielce Pogrom that there can be no permission for intolerance, racism or anti-Semitism in Poland. It seems to me that these are very important words, and events in the UK show what such words lead to. I would also like to stress that, with regard to the events in the UK, of course, I did what I had to do in these situations, namely I sent a letter asking for an ombudsman of the United Kingdom to deal with this issue too, which is my counterpart, because in such situations this should be done. Besides, I believe that this is the role of the Ombudsman, in situations where the rights of Polish citizens abroad are violated, also to respond to this. I would like to stress that a large part of the activity was devoted to the problems of the Roma population, which lives in Małopolskie voivodship, where there is quite an important problem in the towns of Limanowa and Czchow. We also attended meetings of the Committee on National Minorities and Ethnic Minorities and a representative of the Ombudsman's office together with the members of the committee took part in a study visit to the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. It is also important that we dealt with the problems of the Roma who are Roma who emigrate from Romania, live on a nomadic nomad in Wrocław and in Poznań. Thanks to active cooperation, especially with the Poznań authorities, several very practical changes have been made in terms of the situation of these people. We also drew attention to teaching programmes and textbooks for the Ukrainian minority. Here, the Ministry of National Education has changed its approach to this issue as a result of intervention. However, what is still not realized in Poland is insufficient integration programmes for migrants and repatriates, i.e. people who come from other cultures and who must have access to work in Poland, must have access to language learning, to take into account their professional qualifications. As far as migrants are concerned, this is particularly evident in the context of doctors. There is quite a large group of doctors from Ukraine who would like to take up a job in Poland, but due to very difficult conditions regarding recognition of their qualifications it is extremely difficult. I would like to stress that the Ombudsman is tasked with addressing issues that concern equal treatment. This is an obligation that arises both from legislation and from Article. 32 and Article 32 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing It is a constitutional duty of the Ombudsman to deal with this issue. In this respect, particularly much is being done with regard to equal treatment between men and women, and in particular with regard to domestic violence. We observe that there is not enough rapid response from the police and the prosecution to domestic violence. The courts also do not always act as they should. For example, there is an institution in the Code of Criminal Procedure which provides that a woman, in general, a victim of violence, should be questioned as soon as possible after the incident, while sometimes it happens that even weeks, even months pass and only then the hearing takes place. In this respect, we are conducting an analysis. There are insufficient support centres for victims of violence, especially intervention centres. The problem is also the lack of availability of perinatal anaesthesia. Here it is worth noting that if we compare the voivodship, there are virtually no cases of perinatal anaesthesias that would be available to women, while in the voivodship of Mazowieckie it is much more common. Finally, there is a situation of violence, including verbal violence, which is motivated by hatred, and in this respect I have proposed an amendment to the Penal Code, in particular Article. 256 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 257, as regards conditions such as age, disability, sexual orientation and sexual identity. I also took action on health protection for non-heteronormative persons. There was a conference on this subject in the Ombudsman's office with representatives of many medical professions. The problem which I also raised in my application to the Constitutional Tribunal is the issue of the availability of in vitro procedures for women who started such a procedure before the entry into force of the Act. The law, in a sense, can be said to surprise these women, because in order for them to continue the procedure, they have to find a partner. On the other hand, at the time when they started the procedure, there was no legal obligation because there was no regulation at all. The motion awaits reconnaissance, and the previous Attorney General agreed with his thesis. Dear Marshal, Dear Members, I would like to point out that the Ombudsman is also undertaking research activities within the framework of equal treatment. There is a specific provision, a specific statutory provision which requires it, and in the last year three in-depth reports have been prepared: on the availability of lessons of minority religion and ethics lessons, the second on the availability of academic education for people with disabilities and the third report on reconciliation of family and professional roles, equal treatment of parents in the labour market. I am talking about this because there is a clear statutory requirement for the Sejm to present information on the Ombudsman's research activities. Of course, this is not only about research for itself, but also about taking specific measures later on. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the constitution contains a rich catalogue of individual rights and freedoms. The role of bodies such as the Ombudsman is to draw lessons from this and act for citizens. The Ombudsman should be active, see problems, look for solutions, wonder how to help. There are still many unresolved problems, which are my concern and concern, and which are also indicated during regional meetings, meetings with NGOs, citizens. A large part of my mission is to constantly meet, consult and talk, to know what and how to react, and to react quickly, if possible but professionally. I would like to stress that the Constitutional Tribunal is a key body for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual, which proves in its recent case law. I would like to point out here the judgment of 28 June 2016 on the incapacity I was talking about. The Ombudsman's annual information and reading shows how important this role is and why the independence of the Court and its effectiveness are important in terms of protecting the rights and freedoms of the individual. I am grateful for the positive cooperation of other spokespersons and public administrations, as well as non-governmental organisations. Cooperation, an attitude towards the protection of individual rights and respect for dignity can really solve a lot of issues. Human rights are, contrary to appearances, a rather complicated area. This is an area that requires really great expertise and commitment to carry out various changes. This cooperation is sometimes necessary. Unfortunately, many problems cannot be solved without legislative intervention. It is also important to make active use of the standards resulting from international agreements ratified by Poland. It is these standards that often show what our national system is failing, what could be solved, how to make citizens living better in different parts of our country. Dear Marshal, Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! Thank you so much for the opportunity to present your annual information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u173	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof July to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the Ombudsman's information on his activities in 2015 and of the status of respect for rights and freedoms in that year and held a rather interesting discussion. If the High House permits, I will address a few points that have been raised during this discussion, because the speech of the Ombudsman, whom we have just witnessed, as well as today at the committee meeting, has really focused on the written information that has been presented to us. On the other hand, this discussion, which took place at the committee meeting, referred to certain details of the Ombudsman's activities. Particular attention has been paid to the issue of the Ombudsman's mission, which is formulated as his active activity, the Ombudsman's office, to citizens in a situation where they have problems with public authority. And, of course, this report shows that such action has been taken. This was mentioned at the committee meeting, but Members also pointed out things that they did not necessarily believe had to be done. They were secondary activities, but they were too publicized. This is mainly about the activities of LGBT environments. And here was the issue of strategic litigation, which is being carried out by this environment. It is aimed at the constitutional standard, precisely in the article. 18 constitutions that sanction marriage as a union between man and woman. The actions of these communities as a result of a series of proceedings have led to the questioning of decisions by civil authorities, civil status offices, which refuse to issue the certificates necessary for the conclusion of same-sex marriages abroad. Here, particular attention has been paid to what is attributed to the Ombudsman. It concerns the question of a request to one of the courts for a preliminary ruling to the European Court of Justice in the context of precisely this activity related to the activities of the LGBT community, so that the standard resulting from the Article can be effectively challenged before the international institutions. 18 Constitutional Law. Another thing that was raised, Mr. Spokesman mentioned it, is also the thing that results from the care that hatred should be as little as possible in public space. There was a question to your Ombudsman about whether you were still cooperating with an important non-governmental institution, Amnesty International, in the context of the Polish branch of this institution of action, which consisted in protesting before the Presidential Palace, where there were very clear signals: Duda na Wawel. That's the point. so-called. hate speech. Here it is noted that one of the Members noted the lack of a firm response to this issue. The case, which was also identified with actions for LGBT environments, is a matter of Dr. Paul Cameron, who pursued his civil rights with LGBT environments. At first instance, he received a judgment that was beneficial to himself. Here was the request of the Ombudsman to the appeal court to take effective account of the appeals of those groups which opposed those views which he preached in Poland, among others. Mr. Dr. Cameron. The printer's case was also on the table. This is the thing that dealt with the issue of its consequences as a result of the Ombudsman's action in the context of his refusal to carry out certain tasks in favour of LGBT environments. It was about business. In the view of the Member who raised this issue, the matter also concerned the violation of constitutional rules on freedom of business. The issues of reprivatisation were also dominant in this debate. There have been specific questions about what the Ombudsman has done in this direction so that the problem of reprivatisation is not played in such a space and on such a scale as it is today. There's one more thing. The Ombudsman spoke about taking action in the context of her predecessor, Prof. Lipowicz, on the in vitro procedure. The current Ombudsman maintained its action in the context of the question to the Minister of Health as regards the cessation of funding by the budget of the State of that procedure. This case was put forward in such a way that the Ombudsman should have his activity in the context of the health care sphere to embrace everyone, without any, so to speak, the distinction between groups to whom the Constitution provides effective treatment opportunities in the public health service. There is another issue that has also been raised. This is a matter that could be called taking effective action to counter the disregard of the Polish people. This is a case that's written down as a misdemeanor in the Code of Offences. One of the Members raised a specific issue that was supported by the current Ombudsman by a request to the Constitutional Court for a declaration of non-compliance with the Constitution of those provisions which provide for a fine or detention for persons who, in public places, show disregard for the Polish people and their constitutional bodies. It is also worth mentioning here that the Constitutional Tribunal did not share the position of Ombudsman. He felt that these statutory standards were constitutional. High Izbo! In fact, in this report, I referred to these threads of discussion which stood in some opposition, in a sense, to the speech of the Ombudsman. However, in conclusion, as I said at the outset, I would like to say that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the Ombudsman's activities in 2015, as well as of the state of compliance with fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u175	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Waldemar Buda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u176	Dear Marshal, Dear Ombudsman, High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to present my position on the information submitted on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2015 and on the observance of human and citizen rights and freedoms. Although 2015 is the year of two people's work as ombudsman, Mrs Irena Lipowicz and Mr Adam Bodnar, our speeches or positions mainly concern Mr Adam Bodnar's four-month activity because he is a successor and still holds the position of ombudsman. The very extensive information provided shows one basic statistical fact, namely that in 2015 more than 56 000 came to the Ombudsman. conclusions. Seems like a pretty big number, 56,000. citizens were asking about their affairs, looking for help. Unfortunately, both in my experience, because I have read such answers, as well as information from other Members, shows that these answers are not satisfactory. That is, there are few people who would be satisfied with the intervention and activity of the ombudsman. I have a few examples of the most common answers that arise in connection with citizens' speeches. I would like to quote the most important one: the Ombudsman's actions must not affect the independence of the judge, the Ombudsman may examine the case after the final conclusion of the proceedings, whether there has been a violation of civil rights and freedoms in its course. If the case is already after final judgment, the answers are quite different, namely that the Ombudsman's position in the case would have no legal meaning and would not affect the binding force of the final decision and its decisions, and therefore the Ombudsman does not intervene either. Another answer that happens very often is that there is no appeal in the case. Another answer: The case has already been dealt with by an independent and independent court. Another very common answer: The Ombudsman does not carry out the individual legal analysis requested by you. And already such a completely original answer, which I myself have received: the Ombudsman has decided not to go into ongoing proceedings concerning parental authority and contacts with minors because of your representation in the case of a professional proxy granted of his own motion and the exercise by you without limitation of procedural rights. I wonder why 56 grand. people wrote to the spokesperson. After all, from these answers it is clear that they could not receive an answer, could not receive any help. This is a great profession for those who have written, a profession involving the whole institution as well. If this is the approach to those who ask for help, the Ombudsman will certainly not have a good reputation, for example in this part of the business. The quotation requires a statement and conclusion on why there are so many of these proposals, because as many as 56 thousand. The Ombudsman's view is that there is a large lack of legal knowledge and a deficit in the availability of legal assistance in society. It is precisely in this regard that we are fundamentally different in our positions, with the Ombudsman, because often people who turn to the Ombudsman have lawyers and have full legal knowledge of their affairs, while in their powerlessness they cannot break the wall, they are talking about official issues, improprieties, irregularities in judicial proceedings, and they expect such assistance. They do not expect legal aid, legal advice, because they are most often very well-oriented. Things in Poland last for several years, so they will be able to get acquainted with the legal state of the case, but they feel hurt, they feel hurt and in this case they return. Here the Ombudsman has no offer, no proposal to help such persons. The following statistics, which are contained in the report, relate to almost 60 cassations filed in the case of citizens who have requested assistance. 60 cassation cases - it might seem a lot, but this must be compared with the number of citizens who have requested such assistance. And it's getting much worse here, because there were almost 4,000 of them and 60 of them, which means 1.6% of them. the applications were taken into account and at that time the cassation was brought forward. This is a fraction, this is an element of a statistical error. It's a sloppy statistics and a terrible result. I understand that some of the proposals are in cases that are either non-casual or where the conditions for filing a cassation complaint are not met, but I certainly will not believe that only 1.6% the cases were simply suitable for writing a cassation complaint. At the same time as your spokesperson took up his business, I made several such requests by the end of the year. None of them were approved to file a cassation complaint. I would point out that these proposals were not very hasty because, having had some experience as a legal counsel, I turned to those cases where it seemed to me to be appropriate and necessary. The Ombudsman also pointed out in his report that he was an active participant in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. True, we all observe this activity, but it must be noted that it is a one-way activity, i.e. The vast majority of cases concern situations where the Ombudsman undermines the constitutionality of specific provisions. It is not practically possible to support the argument for the constitutionality of the rules already in force. The Ombudsman's assessment of the activities should also not overlook the appointment of Ms Sylwia Spurek's deputy Ombudsman and at the same time a little reprofile of the Ombudsman's activities and the distribution of various accents in the Ombudsman's activities. The person appointed as deputy has already directed the front of your spokesperson's activities. Of course, it was already known from the beginning that the Ombudsman intended and did so, to strengthen the defence of sexual minorities and LGBT environments, because there are statistics that indicate that it took him disproportionately long to support this kind of environment. He was their spokesperson, and all the affairs of the citizens, the inhabitants, had to go further, had to suffer a little bit, and there are many examples where these human cases have been affected. The thing with Niska stuck most in my mind. I remember this case because I was a proxy for a family from Niska who had three children taken away. At that time there was a battle about their return home. It's amazing. You are aware of the grounds on which this scandalous case took place, i.e. you know what the reasons for taking children were, and the position of the Ombudsman, which he made publicly after taking up his position, is significant in this case. Let me quote them at this point: When it comes to this particular matter, it is a delicate story, it is controversial. In the press, we can see a dispute about her actual nature, her independence as a judge. I would not like to comment on this matter now, especially since it is already being dealt with by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. It was to deal with the case of the Polish family, taken children. This is like putting an accent and the importance of cases in the first four months of the Ombudsman's activity. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman did not have time in the first four months to patronize honorary conferences supporting families of many children, disabled, while he managed to honor the LGBT Business Forum conference, where the Ombudsman had just had an honorary patronage. We managed to give lectures, we managed to intervene in LGBT cases, while participating in conferences devoted to family, families of many children, homeless people here just did not have time. There are also other examples of the Ombudsman's activities, which I would like to point out briefly which give a picture of his actual activities. I'll start with the Łódź case. I am a Member of Łódź, and I know this case very well. It's about a printer from Łódź who refused to print a roll-up, some advertising material for the LGBT environment. It met with the intervention of the spokesman to such an extent that the man, the printer [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's been punished. I hope, however, that this punishment will be lifted by the efforts of the Minister of Justice. It seems that this was part of some good cooperation, because this conference under the honorary patronage of the Ombudsman concerned this institution, which I understand is some closer cooperation and in the event of any difficulties this environment will be supported by the Ombudsman and these problems will be solved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u178	I would also like to mention one thing about intervention, such a rather significant ombudsman, in relation to civil status offices, where the Ombudsman requests the liquidation of the certification required for the conclusion of single-sex marriages. So, in fact, it opens the way for the import of single-sex marriages into Poland, which are not sanctioned in Poland, but after all there was probably a great history and epating of this kind of relationships made abroad. So this is an overview of the activities and for these reasons, and many others that I did not have the opportunity to discuss today, because there was too little time for this, Law and Justice negatively evaluates the activity of the Ombudsman. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u179	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Consequences, diligence and determination... [[That's ridiculous.]] ...this is how you describe the first year of impressive activity of the Ombudsman, a spokesman who not only impartially and competently defended the victims and the weaker, but became a defender of constitutional order. He has proved his activity and diligence that he wants to be and is the spokesman of each of us. I will remind the High House because some Members forget: the Constitution states that everyone is equal to the law and that everyone has the right to equal treatment, no one can be discriminated against for any reason. The Ombudsman is exemplary in fulfilling his statutory obligation to defend those discriminated against, including minorities. It is common opinion that during the last year of the office Dr. Adam Bodnar has well deserved Poland, numerous emails of citizens sent to parliamentarians within the framework of the Action of Democracy are additional confirmation of this opinion. High Izbo! It is worth noting the new style of the Ombudsman's work - close to people, at numerous regional meetings throughout the country, in newly opened offices of the Ombudsman in the field despite the shameful reduction of resources for his activities in 2016, which he carried out the current arrangement of power. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe intervened personally on an unacceptable interference in the Ombudsman's budget. High Izbo! In 2015, we witnessed and participated in a civic experiment, which was that 69 NGOs issued a candidate for ombudsman rights. You have chosen the best candidate, recognized academic lecturer, longtime activist of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, known for his commitment and passion to help others. Dr. Adam Bodnar has publicly presented an ambitious agenda. With determination and courage, he convinced him, gaining the trust of parliamentarians. The last year is a consistent implementation of the priorities presented before the election of the Ombudsman of his programme. I am proud of the decision of my political environment - the Civic Platform and its then president Ewa Kopacz, that we listened together to the voice of the citizen Poland, appreciated this social initiative and gave support to the citizen candidate. Today we admire his interventions on various issues, such as children's rights in orphanages, elderly people, people with disabilities, women molested in the army, discrimination against sexual minorities, and even the case of a supporter held in custody for too long. We admire his defence of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal and our rights, including the right to privacy. It is therefore absolutely astonishing that there are unjustified attacks on the Ombudsman by environments that do not understand the constitutional role of his office. In this attack is dominated by the extremely conservative Ordo Iuris Foundation, which in the justification of its petitions suggests the cancellation of Dr. Adam Bodnar, accusing him of acting in defence of the rights of minorities, which he calls specific interests of subcultures. In their ideal arrangement, according to these extreme conservatives, the Ombudsman should protect the public from aliens and control the sexual behaviour of citizens so that unwanted preferences do not disturb their peace. In the past, inquisitors have performed similar services. We believe that the attack on the ombudsman was because he was exemplary in fulfilling his statutory duty to protect the rights of minorities, and that the ombudsman's critics could only satisfy such a situation if he did not fulfil his obligations. Ladies and gentlemen! The Ombudsman, in preparing his ambitious programme, probably did not foresee just one thing - that he would have to focus his activities on defending constitutional order alongside other constitutional bodies, such as the Constitutional Court, the National Council of Courts. High Izbo! We know which Poland we have been living in for almost a year. It is not easy to act for human rights, for civil rights, when the ideologist and demiurge of the power camp Jarosław Kaczyński makes such words, and he gave them on May 2nd: We will not adopt any laws on hate speech, any such inventions that serve to eliminate freedom. Poland should be an island of freedom. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] We were once an island of tolerance, now let's be an island of freedom. [[Voice from the room: Well, here we are.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today is curiosity. Today, three Polish ministers are sent to the island of freedom to address the British language of hatred. Polish Kuriozum 2016, an ideologist who tolerates hate speech in Poland and wants to teach British people when they are discriminated against when they are beaten and killed by Poles. This view is then adopted by the parliamentary majority and the government, including the proxy for equal treatment. It is not easy to live in Poland, where people of the present power authorize and affirm extremely nationalistic environments, such as the ONR association, which hate speech is inscribed on their banners. Their presence does not interfere with the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Home Affairs, who participates in mature, responsible citizens from the Committee for the Defence of Democracy at the funeral of state national heroes called provocation. When history is falsified, including the most painful for us Poles, the crime on Jewish brothers in Jedwabne, the Minister of Education just fucks stupid. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that many actions deserve special attention. These are topics related to house cleaners, anti-homelessness - here the Ombudsman has concrete achievements and is directly implementing his programme, which he had previously presented - the issue of health protection, the issue of medical marijuana, the issue of the rights of entrepreneurs, the case of people with disabilities who are placed without the consent of the DPS court, very positive, exemplary cooperation with the spokesperson of children's rights and the establishment of alimony committees, assistance for victims of repression during the period of the Polish People's Project Centre - here I would like to stress very good cooperation with Mrs Barbara Imiołczyk as vice-president of the Senior Policy Committee. I would also like to thank the Ombudsman for his commitment, with the passiveness of the Polish government and the proxy for equal treatment, to act in favour of Poland's accession to the group of countries initiating the UN Convention on the Rights of Elders. Ladies and gentlemen! This activity of the Ombudsman would not, of course, be possible without the team that he has constructed, the team that has combined experience and the new people that he has invited to cooperate with. I would like to thank spokesperson Stanisław Trociuk, with whom we have already had the opportunity to cooperate, when he assisted Prof. Irena Lipowicz in the exercise of his office. I would like to thank Dr. Sylvia Spurek, who is a substitute for equal treatment and deals with this important area, which belongs to the statutory duties of the Ombudsman, which some Members of the current authority do not remember. I would also like to thank Mr Krzysztof Olkowicz, who deals with the affairs of those deprived of liberty. The fact that the spokesperson has chosen this person who has such excellent experience in this area is a great support for those who are deprived of freedom. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to mention the Ombudsman's programme, the programme of judicial strategic proceedings - a little bit of this point mentioned by Mr PiS. 54,000. cases that go to the Ombudsman, these are not cases in which the Ombudsman can go into very detail, in any case, but in the implementation of a programme of strategic proceedings, selecting those judicial proceedings which are relevant from the point of view of the scale of the phenomenon, the gravity of the infringement of our rights and the complexity of the legal problem, the Ombudsman is, as a matter of fact, affecting those decisions which are relevant to the citizens. Mr. Spokesman! You've earned your country well for this past year. You've got four years of good cooperation ahead of you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have partners among Polish parliamentarians. We want to work together for human rights and civil rights in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u181	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of us had the opportunity to read and listen to the Ombudsman's written report. I and many of your fellow Members would probably say with a smile on their lips: it is good. Paper will take it all. It's so good it can only get worse. The Ombudsman cannot be judged only by this report or by the peons proclaimed in his honour by his former colleagues and employees, and today sitting in this House. These are commendations bought for jobs, expertise and commissioned work. [[Lie!]] There are concrete examples. Listen to me. [[Lie!]] [[Voice from the room: Slander!]] There are concrete examples. I, like everyone sitting or sitting in this room, meet people not only from my constituency, but from all over Poland. With regard to the Ombudsman's activities, I hear words from everywhere that allow me to say that it is not good to protect and uphold the rights of Polish citizens, with their protection. Mr. and Mrs. Messengers! The Ombudsman takes a vow which shows that he is to protect the freedom and human rights of every citizen of the Republic of Poland - not only the chosen group. And what does it look like in practice? Paweł Kukiz proposed the original and fully civic qualification of candidates for Members during the 2015 election campaign. Several thousand people came forward, but they could not exercise their passive electoral right in accordance with the elected authority. Paweł Kukiz therefore filed a complaint with the Ombudsman against the current electoral order, which discriminates against citizens on the basis of passive electoral rights, denying them that right. The Ombudsman took a stand on the partiocracy side, Petrifying, cementing the current state of electoral practice, the dominance of party hacks. The practice of the Ombudsman's office, regardless of who was in office, was as follows. The party who requested assistance in the ongoing proceedings was consistently answered: the Ombudsman has no legal instruments to take part in the ongoing proceedings. Such answers were received from the Ombudsman regardless of the case and as a term recognised in the world of law professors whose names I will not mention at the moment. But I will cite an example from the recent activities of the predecessors of the current Ombudsman to then move on to the current Ombudsman and his activities. A few years ago, when this office was held by a person today commonly mentioned in the context of a reprivatization affair in Warsaw, it was a coincidence that your uncle of a commune in the south of Poland decided to get rid of the opposition councilman, checking him out of that commune, against the will of himself, who declared that there was the center of his life, having also property elsewhere, and the will of the owners of the house in which he was registered. How did the Ombudsman react to whom the councilman addressed him? And as I said before, he said, "I don't have legal instruments to defend the rights of a wronged citizen. However, these shortcomings in the legal instrumentarium do not prevent the current Ombudsman from dealing with matters which are media-bearing. This is proved by Mr Adam Bodnar, who breaks out of this peculiar tradition due to a lack of regulation. But the question is, what kind of things? First of all, in matters of strong media. The example of a printer who refused to print LGBT materials has already been cited here. In this case, the Ombudsman denied constitutionally guaranteed economic freedom, freedom of contract and freedom of conscience of the printer at the first stage of the proceedings. Indeed, the involvement and increase in the Ombudsman's activity are unprecedented here. To me, a Member of the Republic of Poland asked for intervention a group of voters concerned about the existing, in their opinion, discrimination on the grounds of their so-called. traditional values. It goes straight: During the year of his office, Adam Bodnar has repeatedly been identified as a biased spokesman for the ideological demands of the LGBT, whose interests he has placed above the rights of other citizens. Another appeal is provided by the theoretically appointed authorities on the way in which the aid is provided in practice. This time it is about petitioning Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It describes the scale of injustice in Poland. They raise a great number of polemic and wrong judgments. They add that the chronicity of proceedings and the lack of the right to defend and the real control of the state deprives many people of the chances of praesumptio boni viri. They add that judicial officers often abuse immunity from independence and sovereignty of judicial authority, stamps and power. The authors of the above. petitions, which will soon enter the NAP, also strongly assess the Ombudsman. There are no organisations in Poland that are effectively fighting for human rights and the Ombudsman is poorly functioning. Applications for emergency cassation are rarely taken into account, very often because of the employees of the Office of the RPO or prosecutors sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office. They also do not function properly by law enforcement authorities. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the legal building of the Republic of Poland is judged by the public, and an element of this building is the RPO, that is, the Ombudsman. We, Members, have to deal with society, because we represent only a sovereign - a nation, and not a professional lobby that has the right to do so. So if some part of it feels discriminated against and accuses the Ombudsman of pushing only one ideology, my task, as a Member, is to clarify this charge. If citizens accuse the Ombudsman of working poorly and protecting the citizen from the self-will of badly acting authorities of the state, whether it be the first, second or third power, is illusory, then it is a sign that something needs to be changed. Since we will not change the nation, although it was tried twice in the 20th century, we will be sedated. you should be. The examples I have cited show one thing: an ombudsman is an institution that is unnecessary from the point of view of social interest. I will also remind you that it was established in a time of deep communism to protect the interests of the communist party. She was supposed to be a fig leaf for Jaruzelski's actions, and she was. It cannot be left behind by the interests of certain groups. It is a costly institution. It is unlikely that a change in the ombudsman will do any good here. A fundamental change is needed - the liquidation of this institution. The half solution may be the election of an ombudsman in the general election, which will make the ombudsman no longer dependent on the parliamentary majority and dependent on and accountable to citizens. This is another argument for amending the current Kwasniewski Constitution. Unfortunately, we do not vote on the information, which is why we cannot reject this information, but we can evaluate the Ombudsman's activities and we are doing so now, judging this activity negatively. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u183	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer will now speak on behalf of the club, and I will then announce a vote break. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Mr Ombudsperson! High Izbo! Institutions such as the Constitutional Tribunal, the courts or the Ombudsman are the basis for the functioning of the rule of law and for the observance of the civil rights enshrined in the Constitution. After the attack on the Constitutional Tribunal, after an endless series of attempts to reduce the authority of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal first, and now also the entire judicial community, it is time to attack part of the right hand, especially the right hand gathered around Ordo Iuris, but also some Members of the PiS, as well as, I hear, from Kukiz, the Ombudsman. Each of us wants to live in a country where we respect the law and respect the dignity of every man, where every citizen knows that there are institutions that will defend his rights, such as property, personal freedom, freedom of conscience and religion, the right to justice or access to a doctor or education. All these rights are defended, among others. the institution of the Ombudsman. In 2015, until 9 September 2015, the Ombudsman's duties were carried out by Irena Lipowicz, and from that date, i.e. from the day on which the oath was taken before the Sejm, to this day you are Dr. Adam Bodnar. Ombudsmen of civil rights shall carry out their basic duties as defence against the weaker, the minority against the majority or the citizens against the rule of law. People attacking the Ombudsman, I have the impression, often do not understand the idea of the Ombudsman and often criticize him precisely for fulfilling his duties. In addition, it surprises me, to be honest, to be obsessed with certain Members of the Law and Justice, as well as Kukiza on the LGBT environment. These really aren't the only ombudsman's job. Note that the current Ombudsman Adam Bodnar is the first spokesperson proposed by NGOs, a man who fully understands the tasks of the Ombudsman. Nor is he a person associated with any political force. Adam Bodnar fully fulfills his vows, let us remind you: he is faithful to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, he is committed to upholding freedom and human rights and the rights of the citizen, following the laws and principles of social life and justice, and fulfilling his duties impartially, with the utmost diligence and diligence. This is demonstrated by the number of interventions undertaken, but also by Adam Bodnar's activity in contacts with people, which has not yet been seen by the Ombudsman, the number of trips and meetings. The number of applications to examine the constitutionality of the laws to the Constitutional Tribunal was also significant. It's a proof of that. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of activity in violation of the Constitution and civil rights. The Ombudsman's educational activity is also important. In conclusion, in 2015, a total of 57,627 applications were submitted to both ombudsman and ombudsman, including 27,376 new applications. In addition, the Ombudsman's office adopted 5656 persons as well as 38 074 persons in telephone calls. For many of these proposals, this was often the last chance for citizens to make a positive solution, to defend their rights effectively. The Ombudsman was their last resort. In 2015, the Ombudsman took 506 cases on his own initiative. The Ombudsman's 144 contributions concerned the need for a legislative initiative to remedy these various alleged infringements. Using its own capacity, the Ombudsman addressed 21 applications to the Constitutional Court, joined 12 proceedings initiated by constitutional actions, as well as five proceedings initiated by a judicial question and four proceedings initiated by other entities. Following the disclosure of discrepancies in the case law of the general courts, the Ombudsman addressed four questions to the Supreme Court in 2015, as well as other courts, e.g. the administrative court. The Ombudsman shall also carry out tasks relating to the implementation of the principles of equal treatment entrusted to him under the provisions of the Law of 3 December 2010 on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment. As part of these tasks, reports and analyses have been issued, such as: The availability of lessons of minority religion and ethics in school education, the availability of academic education for people with disabilities, the recognition of family and professional roles. Equal treatment of parents in the labour market. The Ombudsman appointed a substitute for equal treatment and the Equal Treatment Team was separated from the office's organisational structure. In addition, the Ombudsman's office continues the work of expert committees dealing with the implementation of the principle of equal treatment: the Committee on Elders, the Committee on Migrants, the Committee on Persons with Disabilities and the Committee on Homelessness set up in 2015. Adam Bodnar also launched a programme of regional meetings - he drives around Poland to meet with citizens and help them solve their problems. He has had more than 30 visits since November 2015. The subject matter of his intervention was very diverse and it is not possible to mention the whole spectrum of issues he dealt with. Among other things, he helped a person who was hit by a car who did not receive an accident pension, intervened on acts of chauvinism, intervened on the minimum wage, and the largest number of cases that the Ombudsman dealt with concerned the rights of disabled people and the issues of NGOs. He was also involved in protecting those who were discriminated against and rejected - seniors, homeless people, disabled people, people with non-traditional sexual orientations or Muslims. He fought for the defense of homeless people. After Adam Bodnar's position as an ombudsman in the office, an organizational unit - the Centre for Social Projects - was also established in order to cooperate with civil society organisations. As part of this cooperation, regional consultations are organised in individual voivodships - meetings of the spokesperson and office staff with organisations and social leaders. It is not my goal to summarise 740 pages of the 2015 report, but it is worth noting that Dr. Adam Bodnar is a very active advocate of civil rights, and at the same time he is an advocate of civil rights close to the citizen, and the information presented to us about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 and the state of respect for human rights and freedoms shows these features. I must say that so far, the Ombudsman has rarely met people so often, met people in the field and traveled all over Poland. Despite these obvious evidences of the ombudsman's full oath by Dr. Adam Bodnar, we see at the right hand the temptation to attack the ombudsman, not a fair criticism to which everyone can always be exposed, but just attacks. Modern is clearly against this and will always oppose the attack on all independent institutions of the rule of law, as will all attacks on the Constitutional Tribunal or the judiciary. Thank you, Mr Spokesperson, for this year's work and we hope for further work until the end of our term of office, and let us remind you that the Ombudsman's term of office is only three years from now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u185	Thank you. This is where we stop the procession at this point. We're about to start voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 54 hrs. 18 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is 821. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We are returning to the review of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission on the Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification. The additional committee report shall be in print No 754-A. We proceed to the third reading. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, to present to the High House an additional report on the Government's draft law on trust services and electronic identification. 17 amendments were tabled during the second reading. All the amendments were welcomed by the committee, which was presented to the ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's printing No 754-A. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u187	Thank you, sir. As we have heard, the committee in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose among others. delete Article. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 5 the applicant in the added paragraph. 4a propose, inter alia, that copies of the documents referred to in paragraph 1 may be attached to the application for entry in the register of trust service providers. Point 4 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 Point 1 and paragraph 1. 2 applicants propose inter alia. a provision concerning the entry in the register of an unqualified trust service provider. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 425, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and into paragraph 1. 4 (4) applicants propose that this provision should concern a qualified trust service provider and its qualified services. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 14 applicants propose e.g. delete paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 419 against 4 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 15. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 28 applicants in the added paragraph. 3 propose, inter alia, that the decision referred to in paragraph 3 be taken. Point 2 (5) was immediately implemented. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. Article 3 41. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 43 the applicant in the new wording of paragraph. 2 propose a different wording of the criminal provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 44. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 48 (3) applicants shall propose an editorial amendment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment of the applicant in the following article. 60a propose amendments to the Law on notariat. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment of the applicant in the following Article. 84a propose an amendment to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment of the applicant in the following article. 88a propose amendments to the Customs Law. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 95 applicants propose a different wording of the amendment to the Act on the informationization of activities of public entities. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment of the applicant in the following article. 103a propose amendments to the law on cooperative savings and credit banks. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 136 applicants propose a different wording of the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 754, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on trust services and electronic identification. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on works concession contracts or services. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission proposes the adoption of a draft Print Act No 752. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 752, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 431, 1 Member voted against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the contract of works concessions or services. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on government departments and some other laws. In the discussion, a request was made for the exclusive referral of the bill to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is that the draft be sent to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm only referred the bill to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of sending the draft law in print to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 422 against - 9, 1 Member abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Social Policy and Family Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Law on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Act on Municipal Government and some other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate proposes, inter alia, to extend the catalogue of units with which the entities referred to in these regulations cannot be located on one land property or in one building. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 1 to 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 8 votes against - 425, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the Special Rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed by the budget of the European Union or by the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local government units. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Point 2 of the Senate proposes that the provision should also cover the criteria set out in the implementing acts issued on the basis of specific laws. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 2. Amendment of the Senate to Article. Point 5 is editorial and legislative. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 3 and 4 The Senate proposes to delete the provisions setting out the dates for the tax settlement. This amendment is combined with the 12th amendment to Annex 1. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. One Member voted against - 428, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes that certain organisational units may benefit from the exemption referred to in that provision until the day preceding the date of the joint settlement of the tax with the local government unit. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. One Member voted against 434, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 6 The Senate proposes to delete the time limit for the use of a specific exemption. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. Four Members voted against - 425, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 10 The Senate proposes that the provision be applied if certain measures have not been reimbursed before the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 70 Members voted against - 362, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. 7th Amendment of the Senate to the Rule. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is editorial and legislative. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 15 The Senate proposes a different wording of the first sentence in paragraph 1. 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. 1 Member voted in favour, 433 against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th Amendment, by adding a new amendment, the Senate proposes to delete the reference in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Public Finance Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 25 The Senate proposes that the Act should enter into force on 1 October 2016. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the annexes from No. One to the number. 3. The Senate proposes to replace the statement with the instruction formula. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments to Senate 13 and 14 to Annexes 2 and 3 are editorial and legislative. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 14 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 30f paragraph. Point 3 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. One Member voted against, 434 Members voted against, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. The 7th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes that the application referred to in Article be made. 3 could be submitted no later than 31 December 2020. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. There were 404 Members voted against - 31, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 799. The questions are raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a very important problem with ASF in Poland. The previous government didn't crush the problems in the bud, the current government put oil in the fire. Yes, Minister, none other than you and Law and Justice in the election campaign have you persuaded Poles that the laws and regulations concerning ASF are too restrictive and need to be loosened. And today, unfortunately, we have this effect. But ASF -- you have to say it out loud -- that's not a problem. Only farmers from Eastern Poland. This is the problem of the entire food sector producing pork meat in Poland. Should an export ban be imposed on Poland, all products containing pig meat in their composition will be prohibited. This could kill an important agricultural sector in our country, which the Polish village cannot afford. So I have a question. What the Minister has proposed today is a drop in the sea of needs. When and if the government plans to present comprehensive solutions quickly, how is it going to master ASF in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u189	That question, I understand, is for the government. Thank you very much. [[Africa.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: What about the minister?]] [[Good answer. Targeted, point-by-point. It's a little exhausting.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 799 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Voting on the motion to reject the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development's information on: - the current situation on the basic agricultural markets, - the arrangements of the EU Council on Agriculture and Fisheries concerning the situation on agricultural markets and planned support measures, - the development programme of the main agricultural markets in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 (print No 760). In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15. Time... One minute is enough, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u190	That's enough. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ministers! We are committed to fighting for Polish agriculture and the Polish economy. We have to take care of these markets. We must demonstrate maximum responsibility and take the example from countries such as France, which have declared their willingness to label dairy products and processed meat products, and have actually been authorised by the European Commission. Lithuania, Italy, Portugal followed France and also reported a desire to mark meat products and dairy products. Therefore, my question to the Minister: Will Poland also request permission from the European institutions to introduce mandatory labelling of meat products processed and milk products, as well as Have they made other countries? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u191	Please. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u192	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Minister! High Izbo! We know that the situation in many agricultural markets is very difficult, but the information presented by the Minister does not show the ministry's actions to solve farmers' problems. After almost a year of government and supposedly a ready idea for the Polish village, the idea with which PiS went to elections, the problems of the village are still unsolved and these solutions are not visible on the horizon. The measures taken by the Ministry are random and the State cannot be managed on an ad hoc basis. No strategy has been presented for the development of difficult industries, and African swine fever is flooding Poland. In this situation, we cannot vote in favour of the information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. My question is, is it true that the government doesn't have an idea for a country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u193	Thank you, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. One more question, Minister. [[Another one?]] Another Member will come forward to ask the Minister a question. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the minister can't hear what I'm saying. [[Another Aychler.]] One more question. There you go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u194	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you know this, but... [[Voices from the room: No...]] ...reading this document, we need to answer questions about whether we will have food in Poland and what, as well as how much. I would like to say that the Minister and his services are causing such a situation that we will have to forget about the pork shingle in a moment. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So, you're reconstructing... [[Okay, well, get better.]] ...the state of pig population still does not exist, and if there are symptoms, then there are symptoms of the type: discrimination, i.e. only an individual farmer. Now, ladies and gentlemen, another case. This information, which was passed on by the Minister, is not his merit, because it is such a reflex, let's call it, inertial of what was going on in previous governments. [[Pavlov's dogs.]] I've been wondering all along, Minister, if you've been in the army, because I don't have that knowledge, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But if you were in the military, then you shouldn't have slept through the ASF information, [[Applause]] I didn't talk about. So that the Civic Platform Club will vote against this information material because it wants to eat a shingle. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u195	I thank the Member for this statement. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I would appeal for seriousness, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] because we are talking about problems that should be treated in the category of seriousness, and I see that the Minister is willing to answer the questions that are being asked - this is not often the case, Minister - I would like to remind you of October 2013, here you were thundering like Fidel Castro for 6 hours to the then Minister... [[Seven!]] ...farming with PSL Stanisław Kalemba, by all cases changing the word "activity," "active action," "quick action," and ask what has happened during these 3 years with this fighting attitude towards active action, to create agricultural policy. I would very much ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Six hours, Minister, six hours!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u197	Thank you, sir. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, will speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I want to tell you from PSL that I'm maintaining everything I said then, and now, after almost a year of government, I'd give you even more facts, but maybe there's an opportunity, and I'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen! No party sitting here, except for the PiS, had a show before the election. We have an agricultural program, [[Joy in the Chamber]] it is posted on the website. [[A voice from the room: True!]] You can laugh. Two weeks after my appointment as Minister of Agriculture, I presented an action programme for a four-year term. There are assigned tasks and objectives, and consistently, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we do. As far as dynamism is concerned, ladies, within six months we have arranged five agreements with China and this would allow, if not for this case of ASF, which seems strange to me, because since on 22 June we signed an agreement with China on the possibility of exporting pork, which now costs 11 PLN per kg in China, and in Poland it is 5,50, then someone... In my opinion, it wasn't a coincidence, and the other cases that were, aren't... are to be explained, and I think the organs will explain it. That's the kind of program we're doing. I have a question for PSL Members: What have you done with the food chain? We have filed five laws which are in parliament, the first law on contractual superiority and the second, as was mentioned here, the labelling of food. We've filed a bill that's in the Sejm. I hope after your vacation you gentlemen will consider this. We are introducing a label for the Polish product, where the composition will be controlled, recipes for each product. So that these actions are, ladies and gentlemen, very much. As for the crying that I hear from PSL about prices, I would like to say that today the price of pork is PLN 5.50, sir, that is profitable production. The milk is 1,10 zł, 1,20 zł, unless in your cooperative, then... So that, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is improving, we are taking action and I think we are still supporting the Polish village. Besides, I had a meeting with farmers yesterday, but they believe it's good, what we're doing, so I'm really asking for patience. As far as African swine fever is concerned, it is not true that we have loosened the action. In January, I issued a regulation on the early detection of African swine fever, which provided for a number of actions that had been implemented. So that a little peace, a little seriousness, rather cooperation than criticism. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u199	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the information contained in print 760 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 168 votes against - 262, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 821). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 821, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 420, no one voted against, seven Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 41 hrs. 18 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights presented its position on information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. The committee's position is 802. We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: Information on the Ombudsman's 2015 activities and on the status of respect for human and citizen freedoms and rights (print No 580) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 801). We continue the discussion. Please, you have the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Spokesman! I have the honour to present our views on the Ombudsman's activities in 2015 on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the activity of the Ombudsman's office, as it happens, in 2015 held by two people. Over 57,000. adopted proposals, 5600 stakeholders accepted in the Ombudsman's office, 38 000. telephone advice and 286 problems, educational activities and wide international cooperation - this best illustrates the scale of the institution's activities and deserves to be highlighted today when we sum up its achievements last year. The report that the High House is discussing today shows how much further to do, how much to improve in the field of human rights protection in our country. The right to the judicial protection of individual freedoms and rights, the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, the freedom of expression and the right to information, the rights of persons with disabilities, health protection, consumer rights - in all these areas, the Ombudsman correctly identifies our weaknesses and shortcomings. But for us in this House, the greatest problem should be the quality of the law, because that's all that comes from, High Izbo, starting. As the Ombudsman states in his report, the quality of the law was not improved in 2015. The establishment of ambiguous and undefined unclear rules is unacceptable in the rule of law and defective legislation poses an important threat to the constitutional rights and freedoms of the citizen. It is right for you to urge the adoption of laws in a hurry, which raises doubts about the quality of the law. Let this be a memento for all of us working in this House on the legal system in Poland, especially in the context of the process of law in the VIII term. I am convinced that in this year's next year's report, you will mention much more to the legislator than today in this 2015 report. The majority of the Parliament at each next session, unfortunately, regrettably, gives further reasons for this. The institution of the Ombudsman is an integral part of the democratic rule of law in the modern sense of the word. The importance of this institution is special in a country such as Poland, where we see today consistently that the majority of the Sejm is still looking for pretexts and opportunities to expand their competences at the expense of citizens, local governments, both professional and territorial, and any institutions that do not fall under it directly. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this has not happened before, to the great activity of the ombudsman in the international arena. I'm going to point out two aspects here. The first, I think, which will unite us, because many of the threads of the report, I have had this impression, and the people in this House are divided. On the other hand, Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to mention your continued initiative at the European Union Civil Rights Summit, the Eastern Partnership and this year at the Western Balkans. Somewhere it is well written that these meetings serve not to teach each other, but to teach among the ombudsman groups representing the European Union and the Eastern Partnership countries. One could say that this initiative is to a large extent fulfilling the idea of the Eastern Partnership. This is undoubtedly a very good initiative - here I will address the representatives of the PiS Parliamentary Club - launched many years ago by the sleeper. Professor Janusz Kochanowski, continued by Professor Lipowicz and today by Dr Bodnar. This is worth paying attention to. It is also worth noting in this report the very well-established relations between the Ombudsman and the European institutions on these initiatives which the European institutions have outlined in recent years. I am primarily concerned with the social responsibility of business. This requires great efforts, which the Ombudsman in Poland takes together with numerous institutions, such as labour inspection. It is worth noting today, because it is the best moment for this. Thanking the Ombudsman for the past year's service to uphold our civil rights and freedoms, I do not hide the fact that we as a club count on your active and irreconcilable attitude in defence of these rights, unfortunately I regret to say that we are at risk from today's parliamentary majority. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of accepting information about the Ombudsman's activities in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u201	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Constitution, Poland is a democratic state of law - art. 2, in which the legislative, executive and judicial authority is to be in balance - Article. Ten constitutions. The Ombudsman should respect these findings and not respect them. In the conflict of the Constitutional Tribunal with the Sejm, the President and the Government of the Republic of Poland, the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar is constantly on the side of the Tribunal, in particular disregarding the article. 197 constitutions ordering the tribunal to proceed in accordance with the applicable law. In this way, the Ombudsman takes the side of that part of the citizens who, in this dispute, are behind the Constitutional Tribunal and is against the other part which is behind the parliamentary majority. In view of such obvious lack of impartiality, in the absence of respect for the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and involvement in the current political dispute, the Free and Solidarnia Circle negatively evaluates the report submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u203	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Sejm listened to Mr Adam Bodnar's report. Unfortunately, under his direction, the Ombudsman's office became the Ombudsman's office, or rather the spokesperson of the interests of the extreme left. Mr. Adam Bodnar's way of acting shouldn't surprise anyone. He is determined by his way of life and his ideological choices, which have been known since the 1990s. What may be astonishing, defining itself as a centre party, the Civic Platform has appointed such a figure as an ombudsman. It is not only that Mr Adam Bodnar is not only a graduate of a Hungarian university founded by anyone other than George Soros, not only a collaborator in the old days Robert Biedron, Rafał Pankowski from the extremely left-wing Association.Never again, he is not just a man in whose term the vice-president of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights turned very hard to the left, he is not just a man who was very hard at work, he was strongly involved in the killing of unborn children, among others. In the case of Alice the Thousand, it is not only a man who, of course, was honored and very strongly involved in supporting violent sexual minorities in 2011, being honored, among others. The Tolerance Award by Lambda Warsaw and the Campaign Against Homophobia is not only a coworker of Wanda Nowicka's extreme left. He is the man who vowed first and foremost that he would take his position, that he would perform his office impartially, so it is in the corner of the vow of the Ombudsman. And he doesn't actually perform this function for a very long time, because just a year, and yet for the last year we've been dealing with Mr. Adam Bodnar's spokesperson, in many cases with a very one-sided ideological commitment resulting from his past, his ideological identity. Just to give you a handful of examples. From the very beginning of his office, on the first day of his post, Dr. Sylvia Spurek, a woman who is among others, called you Dr. Sylvia Spurek. The professor of gender studies at the University of Warsaw is ideologically involved. I will not quote her quotes and wisdom, among others. on the subject of the Holy Family or motherhood, but they are extreme, these are views which are not shared by the overwhelming majority of Polish society. During this year's office, Mr Adam Bodnar, as we can read, among others. involved in the case of a Łódź printer who refused to produce materials promoting the LGBT organisation. This printer was sentenced as a result of this intervention by a judgment of the district court. In short, Mr Adam Bodnar engages in ideological disputes, violating the rights of Polish citizens, violating the right to conduct economic activity in freedom, violating the right to freedom of conscience. Last year, contrary to the rules of Chapter I of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, Adam Bodnar intervened against civil status offices refusing to issue marriage certificates to persons who wanted to enter into single-sex partnerships. A few months ago, in breach of the essential role of the Ombudsman as a defender of the citizen against illegal State action, Adam Bodnar intervened in a civil case between private parties, challenging the decision of the District Court in Toruń, supporting the LGBT bound by the judgment of Dr. Paul Cameron. He intervenes in vitro, talks about multiculturalism. Here we have to be clear: there is a majority in this Seym until Mr. Adam Bodnar is dismissed from the role of Ombudsman. I would like to ask Members of the Law and Justice to sign this request, to the Kukiz Club15, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as the majority of PSL Members who, mostly in the previous term, did not vote in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Bodnar and I even appeal to the Civic Platform. Yeah, because it's the leader of the Civic Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u205	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u206	...has recently announced the chadecks, the conservative return of his party. So how can you tolerate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u207	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u208	...extreme left in this function? [[Applause]] [[Don't insult people, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u209	Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't have much time, so I'm gonna cut right to the chase. Having heard the report and the debate that followed this report in this Chamber, first of all, I am very impressed by the enormous work done in just four months by your spokesperson, Mr Bodnar and his team. Secondly, I'm absolutely... Although that is a bad word, I am not surprised, I think it was even possible to expect those words of criticism that fell on both the part of the Law and Justice, Kukiz.15, and in this perhaps the most unpleasant and unwise version by Mr Winnicki. Well, sir, if the printer you are asking for has been convicted by the court of the Republic of Poland, that is, he has broken the law and not his rights have been violated. There are also courts in the Republic of Poland which determine whose rights are being violated. [[Applause]] And now I want to say yes, Doctor: Don't worry about the criticism, don't even pay attention to the banging that you're going to be canceled. Perhaps you'll be canceled. These people do not understand that they represent the majority here, secure the interests of the majority, and your role is to ensure that the citizens' rights of minorities are not violated by this aggressive majority, especially by such aggressive ones as we saw last week, 10 days ago in Gdansk, where Poles were denied the right to participate in the state ceremony, to which Mrs Szydło had previously called everyone in her spot. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Prime Minister invited her to the Church of St. Brigades, and some representatives, today translated by Minister Błaszczak, did not allow Poles to take part in this, the civil rights of these people were also violated and remember that, and fight for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u211	Mr Robert Winnicki, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u212	Mr Protasiewicz did not understand what I wanted to say in my speech, namely that Mr Adam Bodnar interprets Polish law and bends it according to his ideological beliefs. What's more, he says it straight, and he says it, among other things. at the editor of Piasecki at RMF, that we have a problem - yes, this is a quote - with organizations such as ONR, because they have learned to act within the framework of the law because they have learned not to break the law. What are we gonna do? [[Calling fascism isn't breaking the law? That's interesting.]] It is because organisations operate within the framework of the law and the Ombudsman regrets that they cannot be delegalised in this connection, that nothing can be done about them, that this is an absolute scandal. It means that the Ombudsman wants to do ideological actions from his office against the law, and that's why he needs to be called off. [[Applause]] [[Calling hatred is breaking the law.]] [[Can I have another one, then?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u213	Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u214	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, please. Dear Ombudsman! I listened very carefully to the speech, which was information about the Ombudsman's actions, and I remembered one sentence. In order not to be mistaken, I will quote them: Courts do not always work as they should. Here I agree 100% and I propose on behalf of myself, but also of the voters whom I represent, that the ombudsman take care of those who are actually wronged, for example by the justice system, and not by media matters, which may actually be popular, politically correct, are being reported by the media - that he should just focus on those who have been wronged, for example, by the justice system. My question is about the Ombudsman's activity. As the PSL representative said, 57,000. the case was received by the Ombudsman, and from this 700-page study we learn that only 1,500 cases were handled positively. Such efficiency at a 30 million-dollar budget, with an army of officials, I really congratulate you. [[You've effectively reduced it.]] Once again, I ask you to increase this effectiveness and deal with matters that actually affect people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u215	Thank you. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! The press has repeatedly reported cases where parental authority is reduced and children are taken away from parents because of poverty or on the basis of unwarranted opinions of social assistance officials. As a spokesman, you are the guardian of human rights, against violations by public authority. What specific actions have you taken in these matters? In how many court proceedings, you have acted as a party on the basis of Article. 14 point 4 of the Ombudsman Act and what were the effects of your actions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u217	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! In 2008, you wrote in connection with the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the case of Tadao Maruko: homosexual relationships will probably be able to successfully assert their rights before national and international courts and thus gradually define their legal status also in Poland. As an ombudsman, you intervene in court cases by ordering civil status offices to issue certificates for marriages by single-sex couples abroad. I have a question for you, Mr. Spokesman. Is the purpose of your intervention to bring about judgments by international tribunals contrary to Article? 18 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which defines marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman? Finally, the Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u219	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Wilk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Protasiewicz speaks of aggression. I remember him in the lead role as an aggressor at one of the airports, but I don't think it's that aggressive. [[I'm sure it's not about this one.]] That's a good one. The Ombudsman took part on the side of LGBT activists in the ongoing civil proceedings in which... [[Obsession.]] ...the obligation of the heads of civil office to issue the certificates needed to enter into a marriage abroad. [[Can you elaborate on the shortcut?]] My question is... [[Extend the shortcut!]] ...how do you agree to intervene in order to allow single-sex couples to enter into marriage abroad with the promised fidelity of the Constitution of the Republic, which in the chapter defining the Republic defines marriage as a union between men and women? Are you consciously participating in a process strategy announced by LGBT activists aimed at leading to the issue of... [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ……]] ...international bodies of judgments contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? [[But read it until the end of the article. 18.]] Take it easy. [[Please read this article until the end.]] [[It's okay. You'll be able to speak up.]] [[But please sign up for the vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u221	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I will refer to the case of the Łódź printer who was convicted after your explicit intervention for refusing to print materials promoting the LGBT organization. You clearly considered that the printer could not, has no right to choose customers at his own discretion, in particular, cannot refuse to print materials which he himself considers to be socially harmful. So please answer the following questions. Do you think it is the duty of every citizen to promote the LGBT organization? Do you think it's acceptable... [[What does that even mean?]] ...proclaiming the view that marriage and adoption of children should be reserved for heterosexual couples? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u223	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! From the extensive information provided to the Sejm on the activities of the Ombudsman in 2015 and on the state of respect for freedom and human rights and the citizen, an image of the high activity of the Ombudsman and his office, the rapid response to irregularities and threats, the search for solutions and the establishment of extensive cooperation to solve problems emerges. However, my question today relates to the tasks of the National Prevention Mechanism, i.e. preventive visits to places of imprisonment, among others. in prisons, arrests of investigators, police detention rooms, youth educational centres, as well as visits to welfare homes and juvenile facilities. Such places to visit are 1800, a year a team of spokespersons conducts visits to 120 institutions. It is therefore very important to ask how the Ombudsman, on the basis of his visits, evaluates the situation in such places. Is this situation improving, or is it not improving? How does it actually look? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u225	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for preparing a comprehensive report on the Ombudsman's activities. Although your work lasted only 3 months, you can see good trends in this work and continue the good traditions of the Ombudsman's activities. I am particularly close to the topics of health protection that you also address in your report. What specific actions did you take? I would ask you very much to provide information in view of the fact that you have stated what we all know, that the National Mental Health Programme is unfortunately not being implemented in the form of the previous one, although we have maintained funding as in the previous term, and within the framework of the National Health Programme, where 140 million PLN is suspended in the vacuum and probably will not be used. Second thing. You drew attention to the training of young medical professionals, access to professional specialisation. I understand that you have dealt with the issue of secret specialization questions, which, according to many young students of medical art, but also of us practicing doctors, is unacceptable, because all questions on public exams are public, only in this one area, ours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The field, the medicine, they're classified. Mr Ombudsperson, I would very much like to ask for further intervention and a report on the impact of this action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u227	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland restricts parental authority only on the basis of a final judgment of the court. The constitutionally conflicting provisions of the Anti-violence Act in the family give social officials the right to take their children away from their parents before the court decides to do so. Both Members and, among other things, Members of the Constitutional Tribunal have requested that these provisions be declared non-constitutional. the municipality of Zakopane. As your spokesperson, you vowed to uphold constitutional rights and freedoms. Do you participate in these proceedings and did you defend the constitutional principle of protecting family life from public intervention? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u229	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Elections are a celebration of democracy, and in his report, the Ombudsman did not agree to address this issue. The current electoral codes violate citizens' rights in matters of passive electoral law. In Poland, no one can run to the Sejm alone. Someone who wants to take part in the election in Koszalin and has a slight chance of choosing, has to put up letters all over the country or sell the party's soul. That's why I have a question. Why didn't the Ombudsman take any action to fully implement the passive electoral right? Question two. Article 11 (1) The Ombudsman's Law states that when it comes to cases relating to equal treatment between private parties, the Ombudsman can only indicate to the party the means available to protect its rights. So why did you take further intervention in favour of the LGBT organization in the case of the Łódź printer? On the basis of which you intervened in the Łódź police force in order to convict the printer on the basis of the article. 138 misdemeanor codes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! On 9 September 2015, you called on Poland, without indicating any specific public authority, to agree to an unlimited number of refugees. On the basis of which provision of the law and to whom specifically you directed Is that a subpoena? Do you think Poland should accept an unlimited number of immigrants from Africa and the Middle East? Do you consider the introduction of restrictions on this matter to be a violation of civil rights, and if so, what? Do you think that unconditional opening of borders is not a violation of public authorities' obligation to protect citizens' safety? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent weeks, public opinion... We'll get back to the subject of the printer who refused the LGBT organization... [[What does that mean?]] We'll explain what it is to you from Modern City soon. ...printing the materials that promote it. It was your office that pointed out to the police the possibility of using the article. 138 of the Code of Offences, which provides for a fine for refusing the benefit to which it is liable, without a legitimate reason. According to the Constitutional Tribunal, no one must be forced to conclude a contract or forced to choose a specific counterparty or to impose specific provisions on it - the judgment of the Court of 29 April 2003. On what grounds did you consider that the printer was obliged to provide services to the LGBT organization? Is it not in your opinion sufficient to justify a citizen's exercise of constitutional economic freedom, freedom of contract and freedom of conscience? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm gonna try to tell you the subject, because I think your report doesn't have it. That's one topic, and it's 500,000. families in Poland. $500,000. it's easy to multiply by 4. What kind of people is this? It's about the franchise. We are talking about a group of Frenchmen, a group that is deceived and forgotten by the Polish state... [[Through the PiS.]] ...where Polish law - Polish Constitution, Civil Code, Bank Law - has been broken and an institution such as the Ombudsman's Office is silent. Question: "How many times have you had contact?" With the franchise demonstrations? I will suggest that next Saturday such a demonstration will be in Warsaw, and I invite you there. You will have the opportunity to clash with the real problem, here and now, of Polish citizens who are fighting not against alienity, but with your own country to ensure that the law is respected, the problem of people who are fighting today for dignity, for home, for health and existence for their children. I invite you, sir, because it is good for the Ombudsman to really lean on the issue of citizens and their rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also start with the case of the printer from Łódź, because it is extremely shocking. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: LGBT.]] In cases such as the case of this printer who refused to produce materials promoting foreign values - but this is not the only such case that you dealt with - or the case of Dr. Paul Cameron, a recognized scientist who published in the most important scientific journals in the world, e.g. The British Medical Journal, you have intervened on the side of the LGBT organization against individuals, and I will remind you that art. 1 The Ombudsman's Act indicates that the Ombudsman's activities should be focused on examining whether it is not the public authorities that are responsible for the violation of human and citizen rights, the principles of coexistence and social justice. In this connection, I have a question: if you are not called off, do you intend to concentrate your actions in the future on defending citizens from violations of their rights by public authorities, or continue to intervene in civil law relations between citizens of different views by engaging on the side of those with whom you agree or identify more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! On 19 August you asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also the Polish Consul in Munich about violations of the rights of Polish citizens by German officials Jugendamt. As you yourself pointed out in your speech, your attention was drawn to the press reports of 17 August 2016 describing the history of the Polish woman, who was received by officials at the Esslingen hospital and then placed under the care of a foster family. At the same time, you stated in your speech that for a long time there have been similar complaints in the RPO from numerous Polish citizens. As a result of these complaints, did you make a request on the basis of the provision of the article. 17a the RPO Act to the ombudsman of the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as to the European Ombudsman for intervention in these matters? If so, what were the effects of these speeches, if not, then why did you limit your activity to intervention by the Polish authorities, which have limited capacity to operate in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I have a simple question, Mr. Spokesman: Are the courts in Poland objective? I'm asking you this question because we've known each other for a long time and you know how many years I've been fighting courts, you've still been at the Helsinki Foundation, and I'm asking you this question in the context of your position and your speeches at an extraordinary reunion of judges. Today, at the Justice Committee, I have already asked you the question from which you escaped, whether the nation exercises authority over judges or not, whether it has the right to choose whether the judges are elected in accordance with the Constitution. You answered me exorcisingly that today we cannot talk about this because the constitution says otherwise, but I do not ask you what the constitution says, because you know, I knew the constitution faster than here the CODEs waved this constitution, and I ask you what you think about it, so that there would be more representatives of social organizations in the National Judicial Council to socialize justice. Therefore, I have a question because I know more or less the content of the letters in which people complain to the Ombudsman, which the Ombudsman answers when it comes to the trial. The Ombudsman shall reply, in accordance with his competence, that he cannot, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I have one question: Can the Ombudsman be an observer of the trial and how many of the Ombudsman's employees were observers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I will refer to the case of the Łódź printer, to the pleasure of the Members of the Modern... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[No, there's no other subject?]] ...convicted of your intervention with the article. 138 misdemeanor codes. I would like to know if, in this action of yours, in this attempt to restrict constitutional freedom to enter into agreements with who you want to be with, you are as objective as possible. I would like to ask if you would have taken a similar intervention if a Syrian printer had refused to deliver an order on leaflets calling for immigrants not to be admitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr Ombudsperson, you are the one who, in presenting a report here, described very widely his activities in order to uphold civil rights. I wanted to thank you from this place and appreciate this, especially since this activity is carried out at a very difficult time, because it is not normal when the majority of the governing and the nearest satellite - the Kukiza Club thinks that everyone is equal, but they are equally and equally equal, that the Ombudsman is to uphold civil rights, but not all citizens. Do you remember that in history? You remember how we did it, not with us, but you remember how it ended. Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens are equal regardless of who they are, what they do, what their beliefs are. If you want to understand how the ombudsman should act, why he is taking such actions and not other actions, you should get to the bottom of what the ombudsman is doing. If you do not understand, this debate here will be absolutely incomplete. I'd like to ask your spokesperson if there's any restrictions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial resources in the budget...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u247	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u248	...allows the Ombudsman's office to conduct more in-depth analyses of the cases reported and to increase the time spent on... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...one-on-one cases reported by citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u249	Thank you very much. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I have a question about crimes, hate speech, and motivated crimes... against racial, xenophobic background. This is not only a Polish problem, but also a European problem. Finally, Minister Błaszczak left for Britain today, fearing that Poles are being discriminated against and that racial crimes are being committed in the UK. How is it working with the Ministry of Home Affairs, Minister Błaszczak in Poland, here, on the spot, regarding racism offences, xenophobia against persons of other origin? My second question concerns the elderly too. The subject of discrimination against older people in Poland is not often discussed, it is not often monitored. I wanted to ask you what actions have been taken by your Ombudsman, including in cooperation with the government, regarding violence against the elderly. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[In Poland, older people are respected.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u251	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! As a citizen, I also wanted to thank you very warmly for this year's work and for this very comprehensive activity report over the last year. To the rapporteur from Law and Justice, Mr Lipc, I would like to clarify that Article. 18 Constitutions that refer to marriage as a relationship between men and women do not conflict with Article. 32, which says that all citizens are equal to the law. In contrast to my colleagues in Law and Justice, I do not intend to present my obsession with this mysterious LGBT - I hope that one of the Members of Law and Justice will develop this shortcut. [[Are you obsessed?]] I have two specific questions. Because the Ombudsman spoke about the problems of violence in families - it is indeed a very serious problem - I wanted to ask what your Ombudsman's cooperation in this area looks like with the police, with police headquarters and with city social services centres, with social services centres, and whether there are any legal proposals in this respect. The second thing I wanted to ask you is the issue of Ukrainian migration. I am not talking about the Ukrainian minority, which, according to the treaties, has its rights, but about immigrants who live in Poland. Do you monitor matters related to the education of these people? Because they often point to problems related to education, when it comes to Ukrainians living in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u253	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u254	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, I have a question about child support. Non-alination is one of the forms of economic violence. About 1 million children in Poland do not receive alimony, which means that they often live on the border of poverty, poverty and their lives are really very difficult. What action have you and your team taken on this matter? And I have this reflection after listening to the extreme views of Mr Winnicki and Mr PiS, and Kukiz15. I think that in a moment, human rights, yours, dear Members of the PiS, and your constituents will really be at risk. You're mentally ill, you're deaf, you're seniors, you're also... [[Think about what you're saying.]] ... They needed an ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We just need a spokesperson.]] [[I want you to really think about what you're saying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u255	Thank you, Member. [[I've been thinking.]] The Kukiz15 is not changing, or Kukiz15, not Kukiza15. [[Okay.]] Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mr Spokesperson, for your work so far. I have one question. I'd like to know if there are any plans at all, or maybe there's already surveillance, if we're talking about hate crimes. I'm talking about monitoring with the police. Is there such a thing or are there plans? And using the time left to me: Dear Members of Law and Justice and Kukiz15, you have some phobia and obsession that has revealed itself here in this Chamber today, and it is very disturbing. Let me say this: I was surprised to hear it, because are you not aware that these LGBT people, these homosexuals, are also in your environments? Do you know how these people can feel right now? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Macierewicz.]] [[You're absolutely wrong.]] Do you know? No, you're hurting them. And I would like to draw your attention to one more thing - the state here has shown a lack of knowledge about what the Ombudsman is doing at all. [[Doesn't he take care of these things?]] The Ombudsman protects all persons, all of them. [[But he often does it against the constitution.]] And in Poland there are 38 million people. And among these are women, men, disabled, homosexual, non-homosexual, believers, disbelievers, older, healthy, sick, all of them. [[These people were born in the family, in the right family - men and women.]] That's what the Ombudsman does. And I would really ask you to read instead of speaking like that, because it's really [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's embarrassing you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why all the attacks on the ombudsman? Adam Bodnar as a spokesperson defending civil rights and interests, but PiS politicians dream of someone who will defend only and exclusively the interests of Jarosław Kaczyński's party. The announcements of the PiS appeal of the Ombudsman can be treated as an act of hypocrisy. For months now, the President and the Prime Minister have been breaking the constitution and remain unpunished. PiS would like bodies, institutions to be controlled by one person, simply from Nowogrodzka. And the ombudsman doesn't listen to political commands or wishes, so the PiS simply tries to undermine his position at all costs by saying that he is a spokesperson of one social group. And this 700-page report says something else exactly. Annunciation of the Ombudsman's appeal is the revenge of the PiS for the fact that the Ombudsman dared to submit applications to the Constitutional Court concerning the laws on the Court, on the police, on the counter-terrorism and all those so scandalously violating the rights and freedoms of citizens. The role of the Ombudsman is to defend citizens, whether they voted for the PiS or the Modern, whether they go to church or to the Catholic Church and whatever sexual orientation they have. And the Ombudsman, which is important, has his powers so constructed that he cannot take action in a situation where the citizens of the Republic no longer granted their right. So, the states are calling for the [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cancel the spokesperson because he's taken action...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u259	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u260	...in defense of the group...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u261	Thank you so much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u262	...which defends LGBT rights, that's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u263	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u264	...calling for discrimination. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u265	Please, Mr. Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very impressed by the work done by the Ombudsman last year for eight months by Mrs Irena Lipowicz and Mr Adam Bodnar for the next four months. I wanted to refer to what was said here about this printer who refused to print LGBT materials. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if someone disagrees with someone's views and refuses to serve the public, we will hear that someone refuses, for example. public service, I don't know, Calvin, because I'm Catholic and I have different views, or I refuse to print material to the Roma, because the Roma have different values than I do, or they refuse to be disabled... [[It's not like that. Don't compare it like that.]] ...because I'm in favour of the cult of strength and I like the strong. There's a contradiction between economic freedom... [[What do you think you're doing, sir? We're not talking about that.]] ...and discrimination, but the spokesperson must stand on the side of those discriminated against, on the side of the weaker, the old, the sick, the disabled, the national minorities, the sexual minorities, the religious minorities... [[The unborn children.]] ...and that's his role and his job. It is also necessary to get used to what the governing camp somehow does not understand, that the Ombudsman is supposed to defend the citizens from the stronger ones, from the offices, officials and cannot please the officials or officials, because he will always act in defence of the citizens. [[Then let him defend the printer of Łódź from the office, from the court.]] That's his job, that's his job. [[Game in the O.R.]] Nor can I... it is difficult to understand why the Ombudsman is angry that he has taken a position similar to that of the Venice Commission in the dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Lawyer's council, Supreme Court. So that I express my great appreciation for the Ombudsman. The spokesperson must be a person...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u267	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u268	...unhappily...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u269	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u270	...and annoying to the rulers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u271	Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the spokesman is so hardworking, why did he not take the task of defending Polish families in Germany, England and other countries of the European Union where children are kidnapped and mothers do not have access to these children? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: After all, he has just begun.]] What did you do? What have you done in this regard? Answer me. Not like the spokesperson for the rights of a child who said, "I was, I was talking, but I didn't do anything. Is that what your business is supposed to be? Sir, I have a lot of business in my office. People wait years for answers, and if they want answers, I can't do that, I can't do that. You're sending someone else. Then why do we need a spokesperson like that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u273	Thank you. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have two questions from a few different areas. First question. We have recently learned the assumptions that aim at compulsory, compulsory and compulsory vaccination of adult refugees living in camps in Poland. I'd like to hear from your spokesperson about this. The second question is a little deeper nature, but I have to ask it. I have read your report carefully. You do not write anything about parental alienation there - something with which many organizations came to you, including mothers' forum, and you promised to help. I would like to ask you specifically: What have you done? What have you done in this area where, of course, you have the tools to make the world a better place? Only in the first half of the year about 35 thousand. couples got divorced, it's going to be about 70,000 this year. A lot of these people will come to you for help. What are you gonna do? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The debate is inter alia. on human rights and the understanding of human rights. This understanding of human rights is, of course, not clear. The development or creation of human rights will be divided into three stages, taking into account what human rights mean and what has been defined over the last 40 years, especially in Western Europe and the United States. These three stages are the emergence, development and distribution of human rights. Because if it's human rights, and that's how he interprets it, among other things. Mr Adam Bodnar in his business is a right to kill unborn children, if human rights include, let's call it, non-traditional models of the family, that is, of course, an ideological interpretation, this is an ideological dispute. Here there is a very important question about the request for the cancellation of Mr Adam Bodnar, about which the National Movement is beginning to collect signatures among the State in the Seym, among Members of Parliament, i.e. The question arises which Members in the Polish Sejm are in favour of the traditional family model and whether there really is one. Conservative wing in the Civic Platform, who are in favour of a gender model, for the cultural Marxism in the family represented by Adam Bodnar as the Ombudsman. We will collect these signatures and it will be the verifier of those who support cultural Marxism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the gender model of the family, and who are traditional. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: You insult me as a mother.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u277	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u278	Thank you, Marshal. Since Mr Jerzy Wilk of the PiS was willing to refer to me in his speech, I will join you, I will use these 1.5 minutes for some kind of polemics and questions. The polemics are about that. Well, I don't know where Mr Wilk gets his knowledge of past events, perhaps just tabloids, and I feel sorry for him, but I have a question for him that tests his ability to think logically. If it were as Mr Wolf said it would be... [[An interview.]] ...that I was an aggressor back in Frankfurt, then the German justice system would have given up on this case? A call to a friend is not an option, so I'll answer Mr. Wolf. No, it would end as it ended with your former colleague, Mr Wolf, Przemysław Wipler from the PiS Club. It would have ended the same way. So there's so much truth in this question, in this suggestion that Mr. Wolf formulated. [[He wasn't at the PiS Club back then.]] On the other hand, I have two questions for Mr Bodnar, also referring to the words of Mr Winnicki in his previous speech. If it is true that ONR will learn to act in the law, then I have a question for Mr Winnicki, but also for your ombudsman: Is it in accordance with Polish law to demonstrate and chant: and let Zionists hang on trees instead of leaves? Is that legal? And whether it is lawful to poke and push people who participate in the state ceremony, as I said, at the invitation of Prime Minister Szydło, because there was no way to say it: come only these, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who have always been behind the soldiers cursed, come all of you, so that the police must protect them?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u279	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u280	Is this legal action? [[In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u281	Mr Robert Winnicki, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say about the delegation of national organisations in which Members of the Platform here today collected signatures, as he mentions and what Mr Protasiewicz is accusing of. [[And he's asking.]] And he asks, yes, Mr Protasiewicz. It must be shown that specific slogans, specific ideas are included in programs, in the operation of such national organizations, and this has never happened. What happened, on the other hand, is such a precedent that in the last term the SLD wanted to solve all-Polish Youth and ONR, that they announced out loud that they would make such proposals, probably even making such proposals. The problem is that the All-Polish Youth and ONR will act and act long after the Civic Platform disappears from the Sejm, just as the SLD has disappeared, when the state will no longer be on the political stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u283	Thank you very much. [[Ad vocem, Mr. Marshal. Short, ten seconds.]] No, sir, no, no. Please take the floor of the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar. [[Mr. Marshal, you're walking into Mr. Marshal Kuchciński's shoes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u284	Dear Marshal, Dear Messengers, Dear Members, I thank you very much for presenting the report on the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, as well as for the speeches of the various parliamentary clubs and the parliamentary groups, as well as for the numerous questions addressed to me. I will try to be as honest as possible about them. I would like to correct a few sensitive issues with regard to the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, all the more so because there were issues that I explained in this committee, and which I believe should not be left unnoticed. One of the issues concerned, for example, cooperation with Amnesty International Poland in the context of the slogans that occurred during the demonstration. Once again, I would like to stress that Amnesty's leader has cut herself off from those words. It is difficult for the organizer of the demonstration to be responsible for all the passwords that are preached. I believe that the slogans that were chanted against the President should absolutely not have happened, and I will always protest against the language of hatred. I would like to say that I personally experience a very massive wave of hate speech at my address. Well, as a civil servant, I'm gonna have to wear thick skin, and I'm gonna have to take it on. Why am I talking about this? Because Poland owes much to Amnesty International. In the '80s. Amnesty International acted in defense of political prisoners, in defence of people such as others. Kornel Morawiecki, Zbigniew Romaszewski... [[This institution has evolved.]] ... Zbigniew Bujak and Henry Wujec. You could multiply the names of all those people who were in prison at the time. I think this is an organization that needs to be respected as much as possible. [[Now he's promoting abortion.]] There was another issue concerning the involvement of the Ombudsman in the Article case. 49 misdemeanor codes. This was a request made by Prof. Irena Lipowicz, a motion that speaks of this provision of the Code of Offences, which is about showing disregard for the Polish people. I would like to stress that this was a case that was taken. I still remember how in the times of the Helsinki Foundation - by the way my commitment to various topics - I took action on defending Jagiellonian Białystok fans. It was related to the slogan that was chanted: Donald, dumb-ass, your government's gonna knock the kids down. I felt that this was within the limits of public debate and that this kind of chanting should not be punishable by the Code of Offences. It was Jagiellonian Białystok fans who received fines on this basis. [[What about the one fan of the Legion of Warsaw?]] I'll talk about it in a second, okay? I would like to point out that that password was very important, because it didn't just happen, it was just a reaction of fans, rather spontaneous, to closing stadiums. It was a moment when Prime Minister Donald Tusk did not particularly support the various movements that appeared at the stadiums, and that's where the demonstration came from. As for the supporter of the Legion, Warsaw Maciej Dobrowolski I will say this: here were mentioned my various actions on 9 September and later days. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, that on 9 September 2015 I had a vow before the House, before the Sejm and on the same day I had a working meeting with my colleagues on the matter of Maciej Dobrowolski, the Legion's supporter Warsaw. This meeting led us to take different actions. We were one of those bodies that, I have the impression, caused the release of Maciej Dobrowolski from custody, but I wouldn't want to take all the credit, because there and there President Duda intervened, and Attorney General Andrzej Seremet changed his position, so that I think it had an impact. As far as the question of the Member is concerned about the 'Old Man' case, I believe that this is a person who should not have been deprived of freedom, and that the whole context of this process before the Euro 2012 had an impact here. The fact that he was acquitted after so many years, however, in a way confirms my words. You can find on the Internet what I said at the time about you... Sorry, I forgot my name, you remember the nickname. About the mission... It rained here many times, in many questions. Let me not answer every question in detail to each person - but I believe that this is one issue, one block of such questions - referring to the Ombudsman's involvement in the strategic litigation to undermine the institution of marriage as set out in Article. 18 constitutions. Here were the slogans for supposed strategic litigation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, and I would like to emphasise this once again, that Article. 18 Constitution does not allow marriages to be made by same-sex persons. If anyone wanted to make it possible in Poland, they would have to change the constitution. That's what I've been saying for a long time, and my view hasn't changed. On the other hand, if we have Polish citizens - and there are some - who want to marry outside the country, for example in Spain, Belgium, the Netherlands, with their partner from that country, in my opinion according to the provisions of the Treaty on European Union and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and with the freedom of movement of persons and with the institution of citizenship of the European Union, the Polish state should not make this difficult. Only in this respect I have taken action and I do not believe that these actions are in any way contrary to the Constitution. Polish Constitution... [[But these people do not cease to be Polish citizens.]] Yes, but they are not considered married in Poland. They are people whose marriage is recognised only and exclusively by the country in which it is... [[But they're citizens who have a constitution.]] [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: You do not listen to what the spokesperson says. Listen to me and think a little bit, really.]] [[You'll think...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can send a more comprehensive answer to those who have asked the question. Now I would like to stress that the Ombudsman's office is dealing with a really large number of cases. You can operate in different ways with numbers. I would like to stress that the office is working with the utmost care on every case brought here. There are many outstanding specialists working in the office. If there are situations where people have exceeded procedural deadlines and such situations occur if they do not have any appeal and we are not even able to come up with any that could be possible if the case concerns a proverbial dispute about copper, not a question that falls within the scope of civil rights and freedoms, if citizens simply ask us for advice and not for intervention, then, I assure you, we are doing everything in our power to deal with these matters. Of course, I realize that a certain level of dissatisfaction arises if someone gets a negative response and is convinced of their point of view, while we in the office are professionals and really try to deal with all matters as well as we can. The same applies to cassation complaints. In fact, there are a lot of these proposals. I repeat, I would like to remind you that I have requested that the Ombudsman's budget be increased and that additional staff resources be granted to persons working in the criminal law team, in that unit that handles the cancellations. I didn't get that money. Within the capabilities we have, we are doing everything we can to deal with these matters. Now please note that the cassation action is not simply an appeal or an appeal to the Supreme Court. We need to show a flagrant violation of the law or a flagrant violation of the procedure. In order to do this, you need to download the files, sometimes the files in private proceedings. Sometimes these files are multi-volume. This is why this is the case, not the other efficiency in terms of our functioning, but I would like to stress that each of these deletions... Surely they cannot be objected to in terms of substance, and each of them has certainly helped citizens. I'm gonna try to keep these things as busy as I can, and more. The kind of topic I want to deal with in particular, these are cassation cases relating to the settlement of the past. There are still quite a number of people in Poland who have different kinds of sentences from communist times and these cases have not been properly cleared and cleared by the justice system. These people are turning to the office, too, so I'd like to talk about it. As regards the comments made to Dr. Sylvia Spurek, I would like to stress that Dr. Sylwia Spurek is a doctor of legal sciences, she is a specialist in the fight against domestic violence. In the Ombudsman's office, he serves as a substitute for equal treatment, but also because of his many years of experience in government administration, I stress: long-term supervision of the Administrative and Economic Law Team. These are different issues in the field of business rights, health protection, and economic regulation, various topics that we are trying to deal with as well as possible, and I think with quite good consequences. Now I'd like to refer to... Aha, in some speeches there were statements on and responses to previous ombudsman rights. It's hard for me to react without knowing the answers. On the other hand, Mr Brynkus of Kukiz's speech15 raises issues relating to the petition, which I understand will be addressed soon at my address, but also at the Office of the Prime Minister's Office in respect of the right of defence and the right to appeal. Now I would like to introduce you to what my work sometimes looks like, because I think I have such a very good illustrative example. Last year, several Senators of Law and Justice asked me to intervene in such a situation that, when an appeal is made for a judgment of 800 and 1000 pages, and such judgments occur, the right of defence and the right to second instance is infringed, since the proxy does not have time to prepare such an appeal. 14 days. I thought this was an important topic, because I can't actually imagine how a professional attorney is able to prepare such an appeal, e.g. on a comprehensive economic issue or on the functioning of special services. I wrote to the Minister of Justice, referring to this intervention, and the Ministry of Justice replied that he did not see the problem and that there would be no amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's my job to take up another topic, but it's not like sometimes you... Every such voice I try to take seriously and take professionally if I see constitutional arguments. So here I think it's an important issue to talk about. As regards the allegation of involvement in the defence of the Constitutional Tribunal, I would like to stress what I said at the end of my speech that the Constitutional Tribunal is fundamental in terms of protecting the rights and freedoms of the individual. Without the Constitutional Tribunal, Chapter II of our Constitution will not be able to function as it should be, so I think independence is very important. The Constitutional Tribunal. Many institutions, legal organizations, parliamentarians also support this vote, and recently Kazimierz Ujazdowski from Law and Justice agrees with this view, which I personally welcome. Mr Winnicki said about me that I am a spokesperson for the rights of the extreme left. I do not agree with that statement. There are many issues, perhaps I will surprise the Member - I don't think there is a Member - where I think the government is taking very good action. For example, I think that the 500+ programme, and I have said this many times, is a great way to redistribute national income and support the poorest. The only point on which I have doubts about the 500+ programme is the question of availability, perhaps to a limited extent, of this programme for children from a child's home. I'm not saying that to the full extent, because I am aware that these children are dependent on the state, but if there was money for these children to have an extra course in English, in gymnastics, even to save up for some future, right, studies, I think that would be an interesting solution. But, as a general rule, I think that the 500+ programme is a good and useful programme from the point of view of eliminating this scale of poverty in Poland. More than that. I spoke here about the fact that I took action to extend the right to compensation for victims of martial law, people who had, for example. decisions made on internment. These decisions have never been made, but they have lost their jobs, they have been expelled from the university, they have experienced various kinds of consequences. This subject is being addressed and it is difficult to say that it is a subject Somehow extremely left-handed. I also made a request to the Constitutional Court, which I very much care about, because I believe that in a democratic state it is necessary to account for the past, concerning the limitation of communist crimes, i.e. those crimes, so-called. minor communist crimes, which were punishable by a sentence of less than three years imprisonment. I'm hoping the tribunal will take care of this. About... Mr. Robert Winnicki mentioned... he pointed to my education. I would like to stress that my basic place and employment, and education is the University of Warsaw, where I won both a master's degree and a doctor of legal sciences. I do now. Mr Andrzej Gawron's question referred to the issue, the opinion that the courts do not always work as they should, and the Member pointed to these statistics, which means that only 1,500 cases have been handled positively. It seems to me that this is a great science for me to start wondering how accurately it is to describe what is happening, what is the fate of the average complaint that hits, and what is happening with it. Because it's like some things aren't so-called. Spokesmen and we pass them on, for example. to other organs or generally concern e.g. Dissatisfied with the situation in the country, not about any specific infringement. Some of these are cases where we are merely instructing, what are the legal means, what can be done and who can be addressed. In the case of some cases, we undertake to identify them in substance, but, ladies and gentlemen, these are numbers that go into thousands, into large thousands. Of course, there are also cases where we are behind, and these are above all cassation cases, which I said, unfortunately, these arrears appear. As to Mr Milewski's question as regards the taking away of children because of poverty, I would have to look very carefully at what specific matters came to our Civil Law Group, and you will allow me to answer this in writing. On the other hand, I would like to point out that here in this House, in his time, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child presented his report on the analysis of these cases, which showed that it was not really the case to receive from the poor. There are situations where we have alcoholism, domestic violence, addiction, pathological situations, and this poverty is somewhere in the background, but it is not the main or the one or the other. Mr Buda spoke about the family from Minsk and quoted my statement on this matter. I later, after that speech - because it's sometimes Also so that the man is asked by journalists and must give some answer - I have done a comprehensive analysis of everything that has happened in the Ombudsman's office in connection with this case, I have received full information and I will try to send it to Mr Buda. Now, as far as the printer issue is concerned, I think there were a lot of topics here. A few points about the explanation. Firstly, in Polish law, and here I would like to make this very clear, we are prohibited from discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. It's an art. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution: No one can be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. There's no doubt... [[But you discriminate against the printer.]] Wait a minute, that's the first thing. The second point is that in almost many places in Poland there is a condition of sexual orientation as a prohibited condition of discrimination. It is not that Polish law is kind of silent about this and it is a discovery that various kinds of situations arise. This is the Labour Code, Chapter IIa, that is the Law of 3 December 2010 on the implementation of certain European Union laws on equal treatment, that is, the Temporary Labour Agency Act, that is, very few people know, the Radio and Television Act which prohibits, among others. discrimination based on sexual orientation in commercial communications. I agree that the provision of certain services is an economic activity. The provision of certain services falls within the freedom of economic activity. In my opinion, freedom of economic activity is not absolute freedom. She's in accordance with the article. 22 Constitutions and Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution has different limitations if they are in the public interest. And in my opinion, regulations that, for example, they relate to whether to the regulation of working hours of commercial establishments or to the prohibition of child employment, these are the different types of restrictions that fit in what we agreed to as a restriction on freedom of economic activity. And now for me, art. 138 of the Code of Offences is also the constitutionally acceptable, compatible and within the limits of Article. 22 Constitution with a restriction that serves an important public interest. I believe that organisations that have applied only for the printing of roll-up, i.e. such a large sheet, with the inscription LGBT Business Forum, cannot be discriminated against simply because the logo of the legally operating organisation was to be printed. And now I would like to stress that if we had a different situation, that the National Radical Camp, a legally functioning organization, is being called upon to print such a roll-up, then neither could any printer providing public services refuse to do so. What is more, one more thing I would like to add is that the Ombudsman came forward earlier that we had this type of case before. This is the most serious case in which such an application was addressed to the police concerned the refusal to sell shoes to a disabled person, to a wheelchair driver. Shop salesman, shoe company owner, shop owner, didn't want to sell shoes like that. So that such cases have happened, but in the past I was dealing with cases, e.g. That the Roma weren't allowed into the restaurant or that they were asked out. Finally, there are a lot of things in my opinion that are particularly difficult, which is difficult for me to understand, namely not letting people who use guide dogs into different places. There are restaurants in Warsaw where such people are not allowed in or refused benefits, i.e. blind people. In my opinion, the constitutional principle is that if a person chooses to offer services to the public, he should not discriminate in such a situation. I do now. There was a question about the marriage of homosexuals and the adoption of children. I would like to reiterate my view here, which I have expressed many times before, on the subject of the article. 18 constitutions. In my opinion, it should be changed if anyone thinks about allowing same-sex marriages under the Polish legal order. I've done this kind of thing... I believe that it is not the role of the Ombudsman, and I have said this on several occasions, to take action to amend the article. 18 constitutions. I do now. As regards the question on the National Prevention Mechanism, I may draw attention to one thing, because Members of the House pointed out why the Ombudsman is dealing with media matters, why certain matters are exposed. I'd just like to stress that I'm not the one who's exhibiting specific topics. I would love it if the media dealt with the latest report of the National Prevention Mechanism, if the crowds of journalists were interested in the functioning of the reform facilities, the youth shelters, if they were interested, as we wrote in the report on the functioning of social assistance houses, if they were analysing general speeches. Sadly, it is often the case that many of such speeches are ignored by silence, or perhaps by some minor mention. I am really making a massive effort to expose these issues, because I believe that they are crucial in terms of protecting the rights and freedoms of the individual. I can't help it if some of the media are interested in exposing other topics. Is the situation improving or not? I believe that on some minor issues, the Ministry of Justice, the Central Board of the Prison Service, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy can be persuaded to make minor changes, while, in principle, we are still at the same level as regards various places of imprisonment. For example, in the context of older people, we see new social phenomena. Such a new social phenomenon, which can be seen in individual situations, is private, eluded by the DPS system of nursing homes for the elderly. The Voyeur doesn't have enough mechanisms to control their functioning. They often function as if they were slightly better hotels, but there may be violations of the individual's rights. In the media, such a story was presented, about the history in Trzcianka. So are youth education centers. The problem is that the so-called. privatisation of care, privatisation of deprivation of liberty may result in the individual's rights and freedoms being violated. As regards the question about the National Mental Health Programme, it is indeed a problem with its implementation. I'm still in constant contact with this environment. I'm also trying to visit psychiatric hospitals. My expert committee on people with disabilities are taking care of this. But I have one dream. I have this dream: the next four years to devote to it, first - I mean I would like to do it, I could say that I take responsibility for doing so - to create a comprehensive report on psychiatry and human rights in the context of human rights violations, because it is about the law on mental health protection, the application of protective measures, all the action of justice, judicial-psychiatric observations, the competence of psychiatrists, whether the courts are taught to cooperate well with them. And I would like to prepare such a report and then try to convince all possible factors - doctors, psychiatrists, politicians - to adopt a new comprehensive model of mental health protection in Poland for the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Mental Health. I think that from a human rights point of view, this is one of the most important things to do. But you can't do that, I think, in six months. This must be accompanied by such deep thinking, analyzing Western patterns in dealing with these people. Unfortunately, our system is based on the fact that people close more, isolate themselves from society than invest in environmental care, provide adequate support so that these people can live with us and function normally, and problems, as we well know, are growing. As regards access to specialisation in the context of access to public information, we recently had a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which was published. Now, in fact, there is a discussion about its implementation. I am, of course, in favour of being transparent in such situations, but I would like to draw attention to one point that may raise some doubts. I think we just have to discuss it. There may be some specializations, such as neonatology, where, on the one hand, it is quite difficult to find specialists who would be willing to prepare a new set of questions every year, and secondly, it is a narrow enough specialisation that this range of questions is quite small. Wouldn't such a comprehensive disclosure at the same time mean that, in the case of neonatologists, we would have an insufficient level of verification of medical knowledge in terms of obtaining this specialisation? There was a question about Zakopane. In our view, the Family Violence Act requires changes in support and assistance for victims and in the protection of victims. On these issues, we have asked for a legislative initiative. In this way, we want to make the necessary changes and we believe that the way through the Constitutional Court is appropriate here. That's all I can say right now. If Mr Małecki were to allow it, I would have given a broader written opinion. There was a question about electoral rights and why the Ombudsman did not take action with regard to passive electoral rights. Here I would like to stress that the case with which the Kukiz club referred15 concerned the placement, you can say, of all the people on the electoral lists. In this respect, we have both made correspondence with the Chairman of the State Election Commission and obtained the opinion of Prof. Krzysztof Skotnicki. After our analysis, we also found that this is not the material that would be suitable for the Constitutional Tribunal at the request. On the other hand, I would like to point out that electoral rights and the availability of different electoral rights in general are an issue that arouses my interest and I am taking action. In addition, I have sent several letters to the Kukiz Club15, Mr Kukiz, to Mr Kukiz. A conference will be held shortly, which is organised by us, by the Ombudsman's office together with the OSCE, on these various aspects, including the State Election Commission. I think this will be an opportunity to discuss this issue. As far as I am concerned about migrants, I am very keen to think - as far as migrants are concerned - Francis I. Namely, in a situation where there is trauma, when there is human harm, it cannot be considered that this problem does not concern us at all. I would like to stress that for two years I have had the privilege of being a member of the UN fund for torture victims. I know what it means, I've talked to a lot of victims, I know what it means to be tortured in the context of war. I know the activities of organisations in Jordan, organisations in Turkey, Egypt - those to which immigrants from the area of Syria go. On the other hand, I am absolutely unable to agree that I have ever said that I am in favour of the unconditional opening of borders. Absolutely not. The State has a duty to guard the borders and the State has a duty to control the influx of immigrants. On the other hand, I would like to stress that Poland cannot afford - this would be contrary to the general idea of human rights - to denounce the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugee Status. If someone comes to the Polish borders and says that he is a victim of torture, for example in the context of the Syrian conflict, and demands refugee status, Poland is to consider such a request. As regards the franchise group, I honestly acknowledge that I considered this matter to be of interest to three institutions: firstly, the financial spokesman, secondly, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, thirdly, the President of the Republic of Poland, who has taken action throughout the year and prepared draft laws on the solution of this problem. If the franchise group considers that these activities are insufficient for them, if they believe that the role of the Ombudsman is to engage in this matter, then I am a professional, I am a lawyer and absolutely, if I can, I will help. As regards the Ombudsman's involvement in civil law relations, I would like to stress here that the Ombudsman must occasionally engage in such matters, especially if these are family matters and these are civil law relations. On the other hand, referring to the case of Mr Paul Cameron, please note that in this case the Ombudsman was involved in the stage of the second instance when we had already dealt with the judgment of the court - the judgment of the court which has already assessed Mr Paul Cameron's action against a non-governmental organisation. My speech was aimed at presenting the standards of freedom of speech. I believe that in this case - and that was my position - there may have been a reduction in the freedom of the NGO and its representatives, who were trying to limit Dr. Cameron's criticism. Mr Masłowski's question concerned the activities of Jugendamt. In fact, on August 19th, there was information that the case would be taken care of. Let me put it this way: I am glad that President Zbigniew... sorry, Mr. Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro was very effective in this case and has actually managed to solve it, because after all, the child was returned to her mother, and I think it was right. That is why here, one can say, it is difficult for me to write to the European institutions, since the problem has been solved in this particular and individual case. The letter I sent was a letter to the consul. I would like to stress that in cross-border cases, in cases where the rights of citizens of the Republic of Poland exist, the Ombudsman can in principle do two things: the first is a letter to the consul, what is going on and what is the situation, and the second is, in fact, a letter to the spokespersons of individual countries. There is no ombudsman in Germany, and there is only ombudsman. The rights of soldiers, however, I would like to stress that in family matters there have been interventions concerning the United Kingdom, regarding Norway, concerning Sweden, and in principle we have managed to achieve quite a lot of success, in terms of, you can say, increased sensitivity or sensitivity of the Norwegian and Swedish authorities to these matters. If you allow me, we are at a stage - because I know that this intervention has aroused a great deal of interest - to prepare comprehensive information in this area. Mr Jachnik's question: Are the courts in Poland objective and are the judges elected? I would very much like to apologise to you for not having answered this question in detail, but, as you well remember, it was already 12:15 and Mr Peterowicz was pushing us to conclude. I think socialising justice is a big asset, and that would be useful. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to one institution which allows this, and which has been ignored for years or perhaps, I would say, is not respected. It's about the jury. Please note that, due to such thinking in terms of efficiency of the court's operation, jurors were gradually eliminated from the Polish justice system. And there are probably two procedures -- employee matters, if memory serves me, and family matters -- where these jurors are still sitting. After all, if we consider a proper regulation of the juror's function, if we think about how to select them, how to educate them, how to institutionally strengthen them, then without a change of constitution we could make big changes, but this too should be accompanied by such a feeling that being a juror is the most important civic mission that it is not a way to make up for the fact that this juror is not making extra money somewhere for retirement. It's about the civic duty that when the justice system asks you, you quit everything or most of your duties and move on to serve Poland. I think this debate is waiting for Poland. On the other hand, with regard to the National Judicial Council, it seems to me that greater transparency should be put in place. Unfortunately, the Constitution establishes a certain boundary framework. I think that if there was ever a change in the constitution in this area, perhaps we could think about how to expand this share of the social factor. Can the spokesperson be an observer of the trial? Let me put it this way: the problem is that the Ombudsman's Act states that the Ombudsman must not violate the independence of the judge. Being an observer is such a form of being a little sidetracked, but in some way affecting the court. In criminal matters, it is recognised that the Ombudsman has the right to be erased and that is why these previous interventions are often very limited. I'm afraid that the appearance of a spokesman as an observer could be read as such. Here, in fact, the spokesperson may be less than e.g. non-governmental organisations which often use the observer institution of the process. As regards Mr Kulesza's question about a Syrian printer who refuses to accept an order for immigrants, I would not like to enter into the assessment of individual facts, because it seems to me... There was such a very good statement by Professor Andrzej Zoll, who referred to the printer's case, in the recent issue of the Sunday Guest, where the professor said that if it were an organization, it would be discrimination, and if it were a matter of assessing the content, we are already entering a very dense field. I think these are the cases that need to be assessed in relation to specific situations. Mr Suchoń asked for a reduction in cash. Yes, unfortunately, a reduction in the budget has made it impossible for the Ombudsman to address everything he could, and here I am referring in particular to the National Prevention Mechanism and the cassation cases. However, I would like to stress that the Ombudsman's office is one of those institutions, which has not received funds for employee increases for many years, while the entire administration has received these increases. This raise request was very modest, it was 5%. Unfortunately, this makes it difficult sometimes to get good workers, and sometimes also good ones leave. As regards Mrs Rosa's question about hate crimes, the latest statistics that have been presented jointly by the Police Headquarters and the Government's representative for equal treatment show that the number of hate crimes is increasing, not only in speech, in words, but also in physical acts. It seems to me that what would be necessary in Poland is a determination to fight hate speech similar to that determination that accompanies the visit of our ministers in the UK. [[Applause]] With regard to the United Kingdom, I would like to stress here, also referring to the question of one of my fellow Members, Mr Masłowski precisely, that you can look at the side of the Ombudsman on which the speech to the UK ombudsman hangs, the call to address this issue. Of course, I will try to monitor the fact that he will actually pay particular attention to this, which is that it is about government pressure on the one hand, on the other hand my emphasis, because it is also his responsibility to protect the rights of Polish citizens. As far as cooperation with the government on violence against older people is concerned, it would be very important here to put in place a 24-hour call for victims of violence and such a special allergy to the fact that older people are victims of violence. Here we are taking general speeches, but we have not yet managed to bring about lasting changes. As far as co-operation with the Police and ILO Commands is concerned... Here was Mr Snapshot's question, but unfortunately I do not remember the context. [[Violence in the family.]] There's still a lot to do here, I mean. It's about emergency intervention centers, response rate, isolation of the perpetrator from the victim. These are still issues that require particularly careful action. How I drive in Poland, e.g. When I was in the Enjoyment, it was over there. you can just see that everything works perfectly until the joy realizes that it is well solved, but it is not a standard that dominates all over Poland. Ukrainian migration and law. This is a very interesting problem, because on the one hand we have the rights of the Ukrainian minority, that is, the minority that traditionally lives in our territory. And here I took an intervention addressed to the Ministry of National Education to solve, for example, the issue of textbooks for teaching Ukrainian language and other textbooks that are required. However, please note that the influx of migrants, mainly economic migrants, because we have 200 refugees from Donbas and from Crimea, makes these people need support, they need access to education, especially their children, but they cannot be treated as a national minority, while our right is adapted to the needs of national and ethnic minorities. It seems to me that this is a problem that needs to be resolved systematically, and it may be necessary to come out of the belief that if someone is a person of Ukrainian nationality, another, then you have to prepare different approaches to these people. The problem of not alimony. In the Ombudsman's office, an expert committee on non-alimentation was set up. I believe that this is a problem that can only be solved by taking very concrete, even precise, surgical actions. This applies to solutions that sometimes simply don't work in the world. The bailiffs complain, for example. that when someone volunteered for the Social Security Office because he suddenly became a payer, the bailiff may find out once every six months that this person was suddenly insured and therefore get alimony. It is also a question of what penalty to apply under Article. 209 The Penal Code, because the sentence of imprisonment does not serve anything, or the question of what to do with the maintenance debt that grows while in prison. Now, for example. We are writing an opinion to the Minister of Justice on a very interesting idea on how to increase employment in prisons, but an increase in the percentage of the amount that is spent on the activation fund will reduce the amount of child support that can be paid by prisoners. This needs to be calculated very precisely. It seems to me that the most important aspect of this activity is the conviction of the Minister, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, that in Poland a comprehensive campaign for the problem of non-alimentation is needed, because without explaining that this is a social problem, that children suffer from it and that they do not have enough support, we can only achieve other results through an increasingly better execution, i.e. it should be, I think, two-way actions. As far as the issue of monitoring hate crimes is concerned, it seems to me that the police are doing their monitoring tasks quite well. Both the representative of the Central Police Command for the protection of human rights and regional plenipotentiaries These cases are very eagerly monitored, but this is not so much the problem of monitoring, but, first, the scale of the hate crimes of those words, because there are so many of them that sometimes they can not even be identified, and a quick reaction from the prosecutor's office as well, and then a quick judgment of the perpetrators. Here it is, I think, a big field for showing off, as far as these issues are concerned, and this is something to pay particular attention to. As regards the question of Mr Oldakowski concerning the taking of children abroad, I spoke about it in the context of Norway, so that I think I have answered this question. [[You didn't answer.]] No, I said... [[What did you do and what were the effects of it?]] Oh, okay, maybe I'll tell you what the problem is, in my opinion. The problem is that in Poland we are used to a certain standard of education of children, relations with children, sometimes, I would say even, perhaps an increased tone in relations with children. If a Polish marriage goes to Norway, which is particularly sensitive to these problems, and there are situations that maybe the child is uncomfortable or not feeling well, then the security authorities enter there a little too quickly. We managed to achieve this - among others. thanks to our interventions - that the Norwegian authorities act much more, so to speak, cost-effectively in such situations, they do not intervene immediately. That's all I can answer right now, and I'll answer you in writing in more detail, if you don't mind. Mr Skutecki's question about the compulsory vaccination of adult refugees living in Poland. I don't know the project, and I don't want to respond to it at this stage, because I don't know exactly what this is supposed to be, what the scope of vaccination is supposed to be, and exactly what it's supposed to be for. When I get to the bottom of this, I'm sure we'll be on a case like this, because this is a fundamental issue, and we're preparing a position. Parental alienation. I believe that one of the biggest problems in Poland is relations, i.e. contacts between parents and children after divorce, but also during divorce proceedings. There are a lot of things to do here and it is worth taking care of the high efficiency of the courts, the high efficiency of the diagnostic centers that were created in place of the RODK. I recently held an internal meeting in this area with associations of family judges, all associations, to discuss this problem and to reflect on the actions. Later it resulted in speeches, while it is very important to create a guardian institution in Poland for a child, who would represent the child in divorce proceedings. This is not in Poland, and this solution is accepted e.g. in Germany. If we had introduced this solution, the child would not have been the subject of the game, but would have been the subject in itself in divorce proceedings, and thus perhaps this sphere of conflict would have diminished. Unfortunately, with us, if there is a divorce proceeding, it is all part of the market: property, wine, child, contacts, it all takes place and the child is unfortunately part of the game, not the subject itself. The second point is, of course... And this is where I answered Mrs Czarnow, I apologize. I was talking about the issue of parental abduction and the need to amend the article. 211 Penal Code. Mr Winnicki spoke about the understanding of human rights. For me human rights are understood as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the international agreements which Poland ratified, and the interpretation of these agreements by specialised bodies such as the European Court of Human Rights or the UN Human Rights Committee in the case of the International Covenant on Personal and Political Rights. It seems to me that going towards defining human rights as nice, colorful terms like cultural Marxism or gender model does not serve to understand reality, it is much easier to refer simply to the language of our constitution. And I would also like to say, because here were words relating to the national and radical organization, also from Mr Winnicki's mouth, that after the events in Bialystok I conducted quite a comprehensive analysis of everything that happened, what the demonstrations were like, what the words were uttered during these demonstrations, how the police behaved, whether the city authorities fulfilled their duties. It seems to me that when there are major controversy over the conduct of various demonstrations, it should be the standard of the Ombudsman's office to prepare such a report. Moreover, I also saw representatives - not me personally, but my collaborator - ONR and Youth of All Poland. There is a comprehensive report on these events on the Ombudsman's website. Dear Marshal, Dear Messengers, Dear Members, I hope I have answered the vast majority of the questions. If I haven't answered one, I'll still try to analyze the transcript to give this reply in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm has read about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2015 and the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 39 hours 20 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015 (Print No 577) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (Print No 802). Mr Dariusz Zawistowski, President of the National Judicial Council, would like to speak in order to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u286	Dear Marshal, Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My task is to provide information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. I would like to inform you that in May of this year the National Judicial Council prepared written information about its activities, which was sent to the Sejm. I would like to present this speech today in a more brief form, focusing on those issues which seem to be the most important for the activities of the National Judicial Council. In the title of introducing brief information about what the National Judicial Council is dealing with, what its cognition is and how technically it looks, because I think it will explain a lot of issues that may be questionable. The National Judicial Council is a constitutionally empowered body and has the task of upholding the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. As we remember, the Constitution also defines the composition of the National Judicial Council. It consists of 25 members, mostly elected members, judges and parliamentarians. This significantly affects the functioning of the National Judicial Council, which acts as a collegial body through the adoption of resolutions. In our current activities, we must take into account that the members of the National Judicial Council continue to carry out their duties as Members, senators and judges, so that limits us to the possibility of holding meetings of the National Judicial Council. They are organised well in advance so as to give the possibility for individual members of the board to perform these functions at the same time. However, there were a number of meetings last year, a total of 17 meetings, took 57 days, so on average it is more than one meeting per month. Nearly 1400 resolutions were adopted at these meetings. I would like to stress that all members of the Council are involved in the work that is being done in the Council. In these plenary sessions, we usually have about 20 members. In addition, all members of the Board shall participate in the work of the teams which shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Board. Statistics show that such teams were designated about 500 last year. They deal with both the preliminary assessment of the candidates, which later the National Judicial Council presents to the President for appointment as judges, as well as the preliminary opinion of the draft legislative acts which are presented to the National Judicial Council for opinion. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the National Judicial Council has limited legal cognition and therefore does not address all issues which relate to the functioning of the judiciary. He has only those tasks and powers that come directly from the bill. Such fundamental tasks of the National Judicial Council are to present candidates for free judicial positions to the President, and this takes the most time to act in practice. In 2015 they applied to serve as a judge in various competitions almost 2 000. people, and the National Judicial Council recognized almost 5 thousand. Notifications. For the sake of clarity, this involves the fact that last year there were still some competitions which took place according to the old rules, where it was possible to submit their candidacy simultaneously in several competitions, as well as new ones where restrictions were introduced. Currently it is possible to apply for only one competition until the end of the competition, so the number of those submitted was higher than the actual number of people who took part in these competitions. In 2015, there were a little more than in 2014, as it was then 1860 people. Mr President, the National Judicial Council has appointed more than 500 judges, exactly 516, so if we take into account that there are about 10,000 judges in Poland, we can say that this is a significant number of people to be appointed every year by the President, but some of them are judges who are appointed to higher courts, and some are appointed for the first time to serve as judges. I would like to draw attention to this, because this is quite important for the functioning of the courts. We must take into account here that this nomination process takes quite a long time, and that means that about 500 judicial posts are de facto not in place during the year, because that's more or less how long this nomination process lasts. If we still consider that a large number of judges These are young people, including recently dominated by ladies, who often benefit from maternity leave later, this problem of the smooth filling of vacant judicial positions seems to be very important. The National Judicial Council attaches great importance to this. Here I would like to stress that in terms of the time when this application was processed by the National Judicial Council, this time has, fortunately, been quite meaningfully shortened over the last few years. In 2014, the average duration of one notification was just over 80 days, in 2015 - on average 65 days, i.e. there was quite significant progress here. At the same time, it can be seen that the duration of this competition for the casting of a free judicial position at the moment is actually not related to this stage of proceedings before the National Council of Courts, but to the earlier stage, i.e. the announcement of a minister of the free judicial position and the subsequent execution of a procedure which is pending before the competent court, where the candidate submits his/her person. Here, we would see as the National Judicial Council some more scope for speeding up this procedure. As I said, we attach great importance to this issue. This is not only about selecting the best candidate in the competition for a free judicial position - we also pay attention to this because the problem of the cast of judges is also a problem of a systemic nature, because it is assumed that the method of appointing judges is one of the guarantees of independence of judges and independence of the judiciary. As far as these resolutions are concerned, they have it to themselves that, as we know, they are not final at the time of their adoption. Any person who is a candidate for an open judicial position shall have the right to appeal to the Supreme Court in the event that the resolution disputes. As regards statistical data, it follows from them that in 2015 these appeals were not much, they were brought in for resolutions concerning the appointment of a judge of not much more than 50, and the Supreme Court repealed seven of these resolutions for re-examination. So we see that here the challenge of these resolutions is small and there is also a small degree of consideration of these appeals by the Supreme Court, so at this stage there is no specially blocking this procedure of appointment of a judge. In the event of a resolution being passed, it shall immediately be submitted to the President, who shall decide whether or not to appoint a certain candidate for a vacant judicial position. As regards the tasks of the National Judicial Council, it is also important to assess the legal acts. In 2015, the National Council assessed a total of over 200 draft laws and regulations, namely 95 draft laws and 117 draft regulations, so it is a significant number of legal acts to which the National Judicial Council referred under its responsibilities and competences. Here I would like to stress that, in principle, we do not benefit from outside assistance, these opinions are rather drawn up by our own forces, using the fact that among the members of the National Council of Courts are judges of all levels, there are judges of administrative courts. So it seems to us that here, to a large extent, we have the opportunity to make a substantive reference to the projects concerning the functioning of the judiciary, which are assessed by the National Judicial Council. The issue of disciplinary liability of judges is also an important issue. This is one of the important issues that the National Judicial Council is dealing with. I would like to remind you that this is in such a way that all decisions which are given by disciplinary courts are presented to the members of the National Judicial Council by the committees on disciplinary liability of judges. They are examined in plenary and the National Judicial Council decides whether those decisions which are unlawful and subject to action would be challenged by the National Judicial Council because the National Judicial Council has the power to file such appeals. With regard to disciplinary judgments, their number has remained approximately constant for several years. For example, in 2014, the disciplinary courts of first instance issued 84 judgments, in 2015, 72 judgments, so here there is no significant difference, but the number of those judgments fell. The 2015 National Judicial Council challenged 12 such judgments, including 10 against and two against the accused judges. As regards the important issue addressed by the National Judicial Council, this is also the decision to move the judge to rest. In 2015, the Council The National Judicial Council issued 31 resolutions on the transition of judges to retirement. In practice, as I said earlier at the committee meeting, this applies to situations where judges have experienced severe, serious diseases. The procedure thus appears to have the opinion of experts drawn up in such proceedings. If it appears from these opinions that the judge is unable to continue to exercise his office, that is the basis for his retirement. Fortunately, there are not many cases, but I would like to stress that unfortunately this is often the case for younger and younger judges, which is probably associated with a lot of stress and work overload, because in some courts the situation is that the judge has as many as 1,000 judges. keep it up to date in his paper. So it is such a burden that some judges have a problem dealing with this burden somehow meaningfully. I would also like to signal that the National Judicial Council is also a member of the founder of the European Judicial Council Network and participates in the work of the ENCJ. This year there was even an annual meeting of these delegates in Warsaw, which was in some way an appreciation of the role and importance of the National Council of Judicial Affairs in this institution. Maybe so much basic statistical information for the state. If there was a need to fill in some data, I am, of course, prepared to present them to you. I didn't want to refer to all of these statistics, because it wouldn't have given us an idea of the basic tasks and what the national council really does. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] If there are no questions, I'm gonna let this speech end here. [[They'll be here soon.]] Oh, they're gonna be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u287	The questions aren't gonna happen yet. Thank you very much, Mr President. Please take the floor of Mr Daniel Milewski in order to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. This information, which the President mentioned, dated 31 May this year. It was addressed by your marshal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 7 June and the committee took note of it today. The KRS was represented by the President, Judge Dariusz Zawistowski. Of course, this information contains what was mentioned here just now, as well as the general characteristics and main tasks of the National Judicial Council. It presents the priority objectives of the National Council, how to ensure the selection of the best candidates for the appointment of a judge - it was the judges who included in their information. The procedure for appointing judges has been described, requests for appointment of judges in 2015 and those data mentioned by the President, which are worth mentioning. In addition to the fact that the National Council held 17 plenary meetings, which lasted a total of 57 days, in order to present candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland to serve as judges in general, administrative and military courts and in the Supreme and Supreme Administrative Court, the Council recognised nearly 5,000. applications to serve as a judge who came from nearly 2 000. persons. The National Judicial Council has submitted requests to the President for the appointment of 516 persons, which means that on average four persons have applied for one judge's position and an average of 10 applications have been submitted. The Law on the System of General Courts allows the candidate to apply until the end of the procedure resulting from his application in the competition for only one judge's position. The President of the Council appointed 495 Boards of Directors for opinions on the application of candidates for vacant judicial positions, reservations of candidates for judicial positions on leaving their applications without consideration, requests for the transfer of the judge to rest and requests for the return of the judge to the previously held position. Representatives of bodies representing other legal professions have often been actively involved in the team's work. In order to prepare individual cases for plenary sittings of the Council, 495 meetings were held in order to discuss in detail each of the candidates submitted and to draw up a list of recommended persons. The members of the teams of the National Judicial Council held discussions with 287 candidates for the office of judge, visitors, court presidents and faculty presidents in the form of video conferencing and hearing at the seat of the board. The candidates submitted 32 illustrative statements and 317 information on the previous submission of the illustrative statement. In addition, this information from the activities of the KRS in 2015 included information on the activities of the KRS in matters related to the threat of judicial independence, such as the opinion of draft normative acts concerning the judiciary and judges, and the presentation of key opinions and positions of the KRS in matters of the system. In addition, the judges have included in the information data on disciplinary matters of judges and professional ethics. There is information on the recognition of complaints, requests and petitions, as well as on conferences and meetings, national seminars and other events, as well as the activities of the Council on the international stage. Members of the committee today noted in the discussion, among others. increasing the activity of the KRS after the beginning of the current term of office of the Sejm as regards the process of further amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Act, as well as some Members spoke of the lack of interest in the amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Act adopted in June 2015, which was later declared incompatible with the Constitution and the resulting election of judges whose term ended in November and December 2015. Thus, during the committee meeting, some members pointed out that the Constitutional Tribunal - according to you and your Members - of the judges' environments in political conflict. In the same spirit, there was a discussion on the role of the President in the appointing of judges, during which Members also presented their votes on the different points of view of the matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u289	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on information on the activities of the National Judicial Council for 2015 contained in print No 577. The information was, of course, submitted in writing and presented today in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It also includes this broad, descriptive part, and the statistical part. As a constitutional body, the Council is primarily called upon to protect the independence of the courts and the independence of judges and to carry out many of the tasks described in this information. The great extent of these tasks has been presented by the President and here actually and respect and recognition for these works, but it is also difficult to talk about the activities of such an authority as the National Council of Judicial Affairs in isolation from the context, because this context is always there. This is the case with the information that relates to the previous year, and in some way the current events later influence the assessment of what has already happened. Of course, the context for assessing the functioning of the National Judicial Council is the ongoing dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, that is one thing. The second thing, more recent, is a Saturday congress of judges organized by the National Courts Council. Indeed, as in the Committee on Justice, it was rightly pointed out that the current work on amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act or the new Constitutional Tribunal Act was interested in the present work, namely the statutory law of the National Court of Justice Council, in order to assess such acts. It is only a pity that there was no such clear vote against the National Judicial Council last year when the Sejm passed a law in June which allowed the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to be selected and became a source of the whole conflict. That's the thing. Another is connected with the congress of judges and opinions which were delivered at this congress and which are difficult to leave without comment, since from the mouth of the participants of this congress there were words about the alleged threat of Polish democracy, also a threat to the independence of courts or independence of judges. I want to emphasize very clearly that in the Republic of Poland there are no such threats and that it is true that the courts in Poland, absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, are independent of any authority, whether executive or legislative, and judges are free from any pressure, even political. But in no way are they independent and independent from the assessments formulated by the sovereign, by the nation, and it is worth sometimes listening to these opinions, even if they sound bitter. Today, for example. in the portal inPolityka.pl is suspended the statement of the Association of Dignity of a grouping person, who about Polish freedom, independence, among others. The independence and the courts, and the independence of the judges, fought. I will quote a few quotes from this statement, because I think it is worth listening to, and perhaps another way to the judge's environment it did not reach: on 3.09.2016 in Warsaw there was a congress of judges. As former political prisoners from 1981 and 1988, associated with the Dignity Association, we consider the debate at the Congress and its resolutions to defend our positions and attack the state authorities elected in democratic elections. That's one quote. Since the elections in 1989, the judicial community has not attempted to assess its activities in the Polish People's Republic. Many participants of the congress were silent when there was lawlessness in the Polish People's Republic, in which judges participated. The apogee of lawlessness with civil and military courts took place after 13 December 1981 and lasted until 1988. As being repressed and convicted by the courts, we know from our own experience many judges and the socialist achievements of then. Later in this statement there is among others. the complaint and the case of Józef Raszewski, which was sent to the National Courts Council at one time. Next, the case of the national verification commission, which was to verify the judges ruling in the Polish People's Republic in breach of the independence of the judiciary, is referred to. They remind the oppressed that over the last 27 years, everything has been done to ensure that judges who zealously apply socialist law fight against enemies of the system do not become harmed. We also know some courts from the trial of former prisoners for compensation for repression in the state of war. In some courts, judges who have tried politically today are looking at claims for damages. And the bitter question is: Is it moral in the state of law? I purposely quote this voice, because it is a kind of a symbol of treating, among others. it was because of the courts of people who fought for Polish freedom. On the other hand, I would like to say that in the introduction to this information, two conflicting messages came to my attention: one message is positive, the words of the former chairman of the Council of Prof. Roman Hauser, who was quoted on the 25th anniversary The KRS stressed good cooperation in the work of the Council of Judges and members of the Council not judges, i.e. Members, Senators, representatives of the President. He stressed that the Council was indeed a forum for cooperation between the representatives of the various authorities, and stressed that the constitutional guarantees of judicial authority as separate and independent from other authorities were an undoubted achievement of a democratic rule of law. As I understand it, by 2015, because there is another sentence later that, however, the legislative and executive authorities still do not see the judiciary and judges as an equivalent segment of constitutional power. I would like to reassure you, Mr President. This is how the legislative and executive authorities perceive judicial authority as independent, independent, as regards judges, a segment. But maybe it's vice versa, maybe it's just that the judicial community of the legislative authority denies the law - even though this authority has social legitimacy, it has the approval of the sovereign, the nation - to shape the system of both the Constitutional Tribunal and the courts. [[Changes to the constitution...]] Because I will remind you that the judicial system is governed by law, and that is what the legislative authority has the right to do, and after this congress that took place on Saturday, I have the impression that this right is denied to us. Of course, like Prof. Roman Hauser, I would like the National Judicial Council to also be a forum for opposing the views of the representatives of both the judiciary and the legislative and executive authorities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like it's been over the past 26 years, and just like it was. I'm sure there's a place in space...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u292	...last year 2015. Because the balance of the work of the National Judicial Council, taking into account the whole scope of the tasks carried out, should be assessed positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u293	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present our position on information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. I would like to start by quoting: The regime of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of legislative power, executive power and judicial authority. The legislative authority is exercised by the Sejm and the Senate, by the President of the Republic of Poland and by the Council of Ministers, and by the courts and tribunals - art. 10 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The balance between the different types of government, underlined in its content, enables a democratic state to function properly. Moreover, the same basic law in the article. 173 says that courts and tribunals are separate and independent from other authorities. The guardian of the independence of the courts and independence of judges in the Polish legal system is the National Council of the Court of Justice. The Constitutional Tribunal is also, as stressed in its judgment of 12 December 2012, a constitutionally empowered representation of the judicial authority. It can be said that it is obvious, but in recent times, when these threats to the independence of courts and independence of judges are increasing, and the division, balance and independence of power are increasingly disturbed, this becomes particularly important. All the more so as we hear more and more very disturbing, emerging information that the Polish justice system was waiting under the pretext of reorganisation verification of judges. One of the most important tasks, if not the most important task placed before the National Judicial Council in the Constitution, is to examine and evaluate candidates for the judicial office and to present applications for the appointment of judges to the President of the Republic of Poland. It is the KRS that points to people worthy of this office, both in terms of professionalism, knowledge and integrity, i.e. the guarantee of maintaining the principle of independence. The selection procedure for the judge's office is based on a competition and the procedure is multi-stage. So first, the candidacy is evaluated by a team consisting of both judges and parliamentarians and a representative of the President of the Republic of Poland, appointed from among the members of the Council, and the final election is made by the whole board in plenary. It is also worth noting that the resolutions of the Board taken in individual cases, whether positive or negative, must be duly justified, whereas the applicant has the right to challenge them. In addition, where several persons apply for a post, such justification must include information on what criteria have been taken into account when comparing candidates. The point is that there is no doubt that the Council has considered all the circumstances relevant to the resolution of the case comprehensively. Therefore, while remaining on the subject of the examination and evaluation of candidates for the performance of the judicial office, it is impossible not to refer to the current situation, i.e. the refusal of the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda to appoint 10 judges elected by the National Judicial Council. As I have already mentioned, candidates for judicial offices, and in particular their knowledge, skills and predispositions to pursue this profession, are carefully checked in the framework of the competition procedure. It is attended by a representative of the President of the Republic of Poland. The refusal of appointment, and without any substantive justification, raises concerns that the decision is politically based and bears the mark of an infringement of the independence of the courts. It seems that those who wish to become judges or who are seeking a promotion to a higher court must not only pass a transparent competition procedure, which is obvious, but also an assessment on the basis of which criteria are made by the President's officials, and it is the President, in fact a politician, who makes the final decision to appoint. Such conduct can also be seen as an attempt to pressure that, in the event of judgments being taken, such a person has no chance of engaging in activities that are not necessarily governing the career of a judge. It has already been mentioned - among the most important competences of the National Council of Courts is also the opinion of normative acts concerning the judiciary and judges and the request to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland as regards the independence of courts and independence of judges. This is not just about the final legislation already adopted, but about the projects that have been created throughout the legislative process. This right entails the obligation for the Council to propose amendments to legal acts relating to the judiciary so that it can comment on them. Statistics have already been cited here. As I said before, in the catalogue of competences belonging to the National Judicial Council is among others. the right to apply to the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the constitutional compatibility of normative acts in so far as they concern the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Last year, the National Judicial Council exercised this power, among others. In the context of the Act of 19 November 2015 amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, as well as the Act of 22 December 2015 amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, indicating that it is wholly incompatible with a number of articles of the Constitution. The arguments cited there were inter alia: that the legal arrangements put in place prevent the Constitutional Court from acting in a manner independent of the legislative and executive authority and constitute an obstacle for the Constitutional Tribunal to carry out effective and reliable control of normative acts as regards their compatibility with the Constitution, leading to the... The Constitutional Tribunal. I can't agree with the views that the National Judicial Council is somehow blaming. It is difficult to have any comments on the National Judicial Council for exercising its constitutional powers. If there are any doubts on the compatibility with the constitution of a given legal act, who is more entitled to resolve these doubts than the Constitutional Tribunal? I have the impression that these statements by the representatives of the Law and Justice are trying to involve the National Judicial Council in a political dispute and they are not going to discuss with the judicial community about important problems affecting it, and this is expressed in the absence of an invitation, the non-participation of any representative of the President or the President himself, the Prime Minister or representatives of the government in the congress held on Saturday, and the saying at present that there were opposition representatives, and the banishing of this invitation, while the invitation itself was not accepted. In conclusion, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to address the requests raised in this report. A proposal to organise an appropriate discussion forum prior to the drafting of specific legislative proposals is reasonable, so that the quality of the legislation is as high as possible. It seems worth introducing a solution to allow the President of the court to apply to the court of superiors to refer certain cases to another less burdensome court, and to include judges at rest, of course, if their health permits. An important issue is certainly the issue of initial training preparing for the profession of judge and continuing training for judges and referenda. Those demands that concern the staffing needs of courts and the provision of modern technologies to improve the work of courts should be considered very seriously. Finally, I would like to address the following point. Although the President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights did not comment on the law amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws which we will probably be discussing shortly, I do not think that the proposal to put out the term of office of the existing members of the National Judicial Council before the expiry of their four-year term, which, in my view, is in line with the principle of continuity of constitutional action by the state authorities, or the proposal to change the function assigned to the President in the Constitution to appoint the President to serve as a free judge in the event of the application of more than one candidate, consisting in the presentation by the Council to the President for the election of at least two candidates, is not a good solution and they agree to the foundations of a democratic state. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I would like to say that according to the Civic Platform Club, the National Judicial Council has properly implemented its constitutional powers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear Izbo! This is how I listened to the PO Member at the moment, who spoke about the threat of judges, and I will ask the opposite question. I'm afraid and I think, on behalf of the citizens, that they're afraid of the threat from the judges. I thought that after today's Justice Committee meeting, I had to say, in a rather substantive way... Mr President, in translating certain complexities and problems, was quite convincing, but he did not convince me on a few points. The first issue is the transparency of the selection of judges for judicial positions at the first stage, i.e. at the stage of the court. Here, practically speaking, there is no transparency beyond the announcement of the contest for the judge's position. Stage two - I'm not gonna go in because I don't know him. But we still have the third stage of the market. The market is going on in a simple and obvious way. Well, the state and the Platform, and the Modern one, believe that the President of the Republic of Poland, who was elected in the general election, is obliged to act as a notary or, even worse, a secretary and sign the nominations prepared by the National Council of Courts. Today I have asked the President twice because, first of all, he has told us very diplomatically that, as the legislator has adopted the matter, such a position will be adopted by the National Judicial Council. And I could even agree with that position, but it cannot be without prejudice to the opinion of the National Courts Council, an extraordinary national reunion of judges. First of all, what hit my eye, and let me quote it, was on the board of this reunion I saw art. 45 Constitutions: Everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. Well, I have this basic question: In what percentage of this article. 45 is implemented in Poland? Because it seemed funny to me at least that there was an art on the main board of the national reunion of judges. 45 constitutions, when trials in Poland last after 15, 20, 29 years. What kind of constitutional observance are we talking about? I am returning to the case that made me smile today, but it is not funny, and I think that you partly shared the comments of Mr Janusz Sanocki in this respect with the chairman of the National Judicial Council, although he aroused the smile of lawyers, because lawyers think in a drawer, they cannot think openly. Because the nation is sovereign and the question arises as to why the nation has no influence on the choice of judges. If we take it and combine it with the fact that we want to force the President to play the role of notary, at this point we have no public participation in the election of judges at all, because this is basically one valve that allows today to say that there is a public participation in the election of judges - through the President and he is elected in the universal election. If we reverse these roles, we cannot claim that there is any part of the nation, and the sovereign is a nation that should elect judges through its representatives. This is the first case. Second thing, responsibility. The main topic, which is very little included in the report outside the statistics, and there was no mention of it at the extraordinary national reunion of judges, is the matter of disciplinary responsibility of judges. Well, the National Judicial Council... The choice of spokespersons, deputies in courts, i.e. judges from a given court, is hardly convincing, and society does not trust those spokespersons. Any complaint against judges ends, in fact, in the same way. I think at the club, we think that just a judge can't be completely unpunished, can't be irresponsible. If he committed a crime, he must be held accountable. The question is whether it's civil responsibility or going further. It already depends on whether immunity is lifted or not. In any case, 26 years have passed and judges are becoming more and more self-righteous, more and more unpunished, more arrogant, little of that, the system of training these judges is also wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a little bit of a pebble for us, too. Well, we are also guilty of this, and this is because for 26 years sick laws have been passed in Poland. Set the system... I am surprised that no one from the Modern Platform is talking about how the law is created in this Seym. Isn't that happening to you? You're just criticizing, making adjustments, and we're going crazy about this legal mess. What does that mean, that the law was created... And it's not about the PiS right now. As it turns out, the law was created all the time. The point is, we have to change the rules of the Sejm. What do you mean we don't have a separation of executive and legislative power? Projects so called It's a fiction. It is the ministries that establish the projects and it is the ministries that implement them to process them as parliamentary projects. The general rule in the Sejm is that every party that is in power pushes the bill, the knee pushes it, the committee doesn't listen to anyone at all, it goes through most of it, because every committee has a majority, and then we'll see, and if something comes up, we'll correct it. We've been improving everything for 26 years anyway. How many times have we had an amended law on the system of common courts? Probably a few dozen. How many times have we had a revised Vata bill? How many other laws? How many years are we gonna do this here all the time in the same way? And your marshal smiles and she's happy. So do I, Marshal, but I'm not happy. Let me put it this way: if we do not change the working principle in this Seym, we will not create any proper law, all institutions in Poland will be... They're still gonna be sick. It's not funny. The National Judicial Council was quite unnecessarily involved in the organisation of this convention, and in this, I will tell you frankly, the Hucpa with the Constitutional Tribunal and the worship of Prof. Rzepliński, because it wrongly affects the opinion of the National Judicial Council and wrongly affects the opinion of judges in Poland at all. The National Judicial Council has its tasks and should take care of these tasks and not put its fingers where it should not put them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dolniak, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's not a lot of people left at this hour. It's important because it concerns the justice system. Most of the Sejm is screaming about how bad and bad this justice system is, and there are two people, and probably not related yet. [[Voice from the room: bound.]] The main role and primary task of the National Judicial Council is to uphold the independence of the courts and independence of the judges and this has been expressed directly in the content of the Article. 186 constitutions. The National Judicial Council appeared in our public life in 1989 after a round table. It was created as a guardian and guarantor of the independence of the courts and independence of judges and found its constitutional basis already in 1989, which the 1997 Constitution significantly extended. Legal meaning of the formula used in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Constitution consists, first, of emphasising the axiological rank of both principles mentioned therein. Using the term "guard stand', actually reserved in the Constitution for the protection of values of fundamental importance to the existence of the State, not only was the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges given special importance, but also the obligation to protect their environment. Secondly, the term "guard" cannot be understood only in its defensive aspect, i.e. as an integral part of the Board's task only to counter the violations of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. In practice, it is important to ensure that the Council participates in decisions concerning courts and judges in order to remove the possibility of such infringements. This is particularly about personal decisions concerning judges. Today's understanding of the principles of independence and independence precludes leaving the executive authority free to decide whether to appoint, promote or transfer judges. That is why the rank of this body has been elevated to constitutional level. The concept of a threefold division of power into a judicial, executive and legislative body is intended to ensure the mutual balance of the authorities and prevent the exercise of judicial functions by the executive and legislative authorities. The division of power and the principle of mutual balancing and braking prevent abuse of power. The principle of three divisions of power does not eliminate the links between the judicial authority and the executive or legislative authority, although the separation and independence of the judicial authority must be preserved. The existing links must not interfere in any way with its essence, must not deprive the courts of independence and the judges of the quality of independence. Such separation of judicial authority results from the assignment to the courts of a specific task of exercising justice. The selection procedure for judges is strictly defined and has statutoryly clear criteria for the Council to select the best candidate in this selection process. And this is one of the main tasks and main tasks of the National Judicial Council - presenting applications to the President for appointment to serve as a judge. However, the election of these persons shall be made by the Council, presenting the candidates for their appointment to the President. It is up to the National Judicial Council to be responsible and responsible for the choice of persons as judges. Such a person may not be chosen by another authority, in particular it may not be an executive authority, because there is no such authority. The President does not have the authority to choose the persons to become members of the judicial community, but merely appoints the judge of the persons elected by the National Judicial Council. All the more incomprehensible is the last refusal of the President to appoint candidates for the judicial position presented by the National Judicial Council. This is not the exercise by the President of the Constitution of the right to appoint a candidate elected by the Council, but an arbitrary refusal without any justification. Thus, the candidate, without knowing the justification, does not even know why he was not appointed. What if he wants to appeal his decision? He can't even make an argument to the court to justify his position and to refer to the position of president. A well-functioning judicial system and independent of the executive and legislative authorities, the judiciary is the foundation for protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. This is the basis of the state on which our democracy is based. Today we consider information, listen to information about the activities of the National Judicial Council for 2015. While upholding the independence of the courts and the independence of judges, the National Council of the Court of Justice calls for a stable system of the judiciary, as well as for an appropriate discussion forum, which will precede the preparation of legislative proposals, that is to say, the discussion will begin and continue before the draft is prepared, because then there is a chance to hear comments, including the judge's environment. The National Judicial Council calls for the adoption as a principle that the process of judicial reform will be preceded by comprehensive consultations, not only with the parties involved in the legislative procedure, but also with the judicial environment. The Council also calls for the cessation of the treatment of law as a tool of current policy and for the recognition that courts and judges are apolitical and not ours or yours. The Council therefore calls for substantial changes to the current administrative oversight system of the Minister for Justice in the courts. The National Judicial Council, but also judges want to reform the judiciary, but the draft laws in this area are now being prepared by the rulers without any consultation, as if the judges knew nothing about what they were doing, and yet they have been ruling over the years, knowing what direction changes should take place, and they are in favour of them. The draft democratic rule of law also includes the principle of correct legislation, i.e. the creation of good law through a transparent and legible procedure. Let us read into the content of the information provided by the National Judicial Council so that it is clear that the courts are independent and the judges are independent, as well as in the requests for judicial reform made by the National Judicial Council and the judges themselves. Today, at the Justice Committee meeting, the President presented a report on the work of the 2015 Council, pointing out that the subject matter was not only to direct the elected candidates to appoint a judge, but also a large part of the work on the conferences to be convened and the opinions of the drafts, unfortunately, after they were drawn up and not when they were drawn up. But I must say, Mr President, which was very pleasant to me during the committee meeting that a member of the National Courts Council, Mrs President, said about the positive, good working atmosphere of the National Courts Council. I don't think it's that bad, since it gives such opinions to judges, because there are mainly members of the National Council of Courts, they are judges. So as negative as just talking about judges maybe not quite, or maybe mostly, it's real. The judges are talking about the need for justice reform, but they want to participate. As far as these draft laws and procedures are concerned, Mr President, you are also a Member and participate in this process. I don't see you talking about your projects or the amendments that this process or the procedure itself would change in a special way. By the way, we are actually talking about the National Judicial Council and the 2015 report. During this meeting, the President also spoke about the fact that we should proceed with new laws, amend or adopt full legislation, discuss the subject before the draft is drawn up. We had a broad public consultation with people who were involved. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a given area of law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u299	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present our position on information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. The National Judicial Council is a specific constitutional body upholding the independence of the courts and independence of the judges, having also the right to apply to the Constitutional Court for compliance with the Constitution of acts in so far as they concern the independence of the courts and independence of the judges, and to submit applications to the President of the Republic of Poland for appointment to serve as a judge. The 2015 report, which was presented by your President, describes the main aspects of the activity, the activity of the national council last year, showing the various areas of its activity and its weaknesses, but also proposals for changes to be made. It is important to appreciate the care the council has shown in the selection of candidates for the judge's position. The past quarter-century activities of the KRS have made very good progress in this matter. In 2015, the Council The National Judicial Council examined the candidacy of a total of 1949 persons for judicial positions, i.e. 85 more than in the previous year. Of these 516 candidates, i.e. 74 more than a year ago, the President was asked to appoint all levels and types of judges. The National Council also gave an opinion on a number of draft normative acts concerning the judiciary and judges. She gave a total opinion in 2015 on 216 draft normative acts, including 95 draft laws. The National Judicial Council maintains its repeatedly expressed position regarding too frequent amendments to legislation, including unacceptable, according to the Council, the frequency of changes to which the Codes Act is subject. This is a negative practice that undermines the stability of the legal system and should be a challenge for the High House. The efforts of the national council to create an appropriate model of training, professional improvement of judges are another area where the national council was very active. Unfortunately, the KRS has no real impact on the functioning of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This institution is subject to the Minister of Justice, which does not meet European standards. The need to build the seat of the National Judicial Council is often raised. The body of this constitutional rank certainly deserves its own building, its own headquarters. This right call deserves attention and should finally be met. At this point, I would like to thank the National Council for its clear and unmistakable position on the ongoing country of the constitutional crisis. The National Judicial Council, in its positions, which we very often quoted during the debates on the Constitutional Tribunal, expressed strong opposition to unprecedented attempts to intervene, influence judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and stressed the importance of the independence of the Tribunal. In this critical state of the state of the moment, the National Judicial Council has shown a respectable attitude, defending constitutional order against the temptations of the parliamentary majority. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to declare our vote in favour of accepting information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2015. The National Judicial Council is a specific constitutional body of the state authority functionally associated with the judicial authority, upholding the independence of the courts and the independence of judges. One of the most important tasks of the National Judicial Council is to assess candidates for the positions of judges and to submit applications for their appointment to the President of the Republic of Poland. As we can read in the information provided: The Council selects those candidates who, in its opinion, give the highest guarantees of proper office. This concerns both the guarantees of professionalism and the possession of the so-called. "incorruptible character" and such qualities that allow, inter alia, to be accepted, that as judges, they will be guided by the principle of independence. In this context, I would like to refer to the order of the President of the Republic of Poland of June this year. the refusal to appoint 10 judges designated by the Council. The spokesperson of the KRS, Judge Waldemar Żurek, commented on the case, expressed the view that it was the KRS who chose it, and the President merely appointed the judges. Such an approach, which cannot be agreed with, would lead the president to the role of a certain notary, the master of the ceremony, which celebrates the choice of judges. In the meantime, the appointment of judges should be regarded as a prerogative of the President of the Republic. He has every right to refuse his appointment. The question is whether a refusal should involve a statement of reasons. This would certainly avoid suspicion of arbitraryness. The fact is, however, that the essence of the three divisions of the authorities is the control system between the different authorities in accordance with the check and balance principle. The judicial authority is not excluded from this mechanism and cannot become a specific state in the State. The Council's approach to the presidential prerogative of appointing or refusing to appoint judges is all the more surprising when we recall another piece of information. We read that: The implementation of the most important KRS competence was hindered by the fact that most people aspiring to the judge's office did not have an independent legal practice. Therefore, there was a lack of a very important element to assess their suitability for judicial functions, which is the ability to apply law in practice. Furthermore, the Council was not able to verify the personality and character of candidates for the judge's office, to verify their decision-making or to treat people with regard to the parties to the proceedings, the judges' composition or the employees of the court, as this possibility can only be given by the court and the courtroom. In addition, the Council refers to problems in the operation of the IT system serving applications for free judicial positions. In the light of these observations, the active role of the President of the Republic in assessing requests for appointment of judges is therefore particularly justified. However, it should be borne in mind that the role of the National Courts should not be reduced to assess the suitability of candidates to serve as judges. Taking into account the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Constitution, it should be necessary to create the conditions for the Council to co-form the process of preparing candidates during the judicial application at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as to supervise the lifelong learning process after the nomination. It is also necessary to prepare an amendment to the Law on the System of General Courts, especially as regards precise rules concerning the supervision of the Minister of Justice over the administrative activities of the courts. In conclusion, the Council's requests for advice on current problems and the needs of the justice system, mentioned on pages 57.59, should in most cases be considered justified. In particular, it should be considered necessary to ensure that a lasting system solution is put in place, which will allow for an increase in the level of remuneration of auxiliary staff in the general courts in the coming years, in particular the assistants of judges. Unfortunately, the report lacks information on cases of breaches of the principles of professional ethics by judges in the context of their involvement in current political activities and on the actions taken by the National Council of the Court of Justice as a result of its statutory obligation to ensure compliance with those principles, as well as the reasons for the Council's failure to react to the non-constitutional actions of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, which makes the report part-time. In addition, it should be pointed out that the involvement of the board in organising the Congress of Judges is a commitment to the current political dispute, which should not be the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo, it's a little deserted at this hour! Judge Zawistowski, the chairman of the national council seems to be a very intelligent, kind man, competent. Besides, as we heard from Mrs Pawłowicz, she repeated this relationship with Mrs Dolniak, the atmosphere in the national council is very good, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are not a business trip to mushrooms so that we can enjoy a good atmosphere somewhere out there. We are citizens' representatives and we are to judge the institution fairly - in this case an important institution of justice - and this assessment cannot be limited to statistics only, that 500 judges, that 5,000. issues, etc., but we need to assess this in the context of how the Polish justice system works, how the judiciary works, whether these noble slogans of independence, efficiency, etc. are implemented. Well, ladies and gentlemen, they're not. We all know that. They're not. The Polish judiciary works badly. This is pathology. Here, in this Seym, the parliamentary team: me, Mr Jachnik and Mr Gawron, organised two conferences of victims: 16 January and 25 June. There were over 1200 people from all over Poland who were injured by the justice system, by courts unjust judgments, deprived of property. It's a trial that lasts decades. This isn't about us fitting in with a political dispute, who to put in or who to defend, it's about us finding the reasons for this state of affairs. That's the job. also for the National Judicial Council, not only for us and for citizens. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I have here... There were times when a lot of people showed their constitution. I brought the constitution, too. Since the scale of this pathology is so great, the reasons cannot be that this judge or that judge is a bad person, but these reasons must be of a systemic nature. The reasons for which the Polish judiciary does not work are the causes of a systemic nature. What are the reasons? I am really surprised - I have been a Member for less than a year, for the first time - that a country that has been sitting here for many years does not see such a fundamental thing. In this constitution, in the article. 4 is enshrined the fundamental principle of the republic, the Republic: the principle of sovereignty of the nation. The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. The people exercise authority, authority, either by their representatives or directly. The judicial authority also belongs to the nation and judges must be elected by the nation or by representatives. That's it, period. Clara non sunt interpretand, clear things do not require interpretation. Meanwhile, for 25 members of the National Judicial Council, countries, 17 are judges elected by judges. Excuse me, these are people who don't have constitutional credentials to judge to pick judges. I'm saying it straight and forth. I understand everyone's afraid to say it, because the environment is about to happen, because laughter, because all of a sudden... But someone has to say the King is naked. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I say this openly on behalf of the injured citizens and those whose courts have not yet been harmed. Until this defect is removed, until we introduce the election of judges by representatives of the nation or judges of peace, as it was in pre-war Polish legislation, even by citizens in the case of simple matters... We need to think about this together, and we are pushing this issue and assessing the national council into a political dispute, whether the President is a notary or notary. This president, to tell you the truth, is today the only alibi that he's calling these judges. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I call on us to take this seriously outside of this political dispute, apart from yelling it out, outside of either sucking up to this community of judges or national council, or some kind of political play. The reform of the judiciary, the justice system, the national sovereignty over the justice system must be restored urgently, because this third authority must also be controlled by the nation. This is clear and undisputed, because this is the source of pathology, because the entire complaint system in Poland is fiction, the entire disciplinary system, which the President calls for, that there was so little... These disciplinary actions against judges were most often for the judge's speeding up and getting a ticket, ladies and gentlemen, not for what he did in the courtroom. For God's sake, we have to change that. I appeal for this because this way you cannot take such a serious case, lock it in statistics, including whether 500 judges were appointed or on maternity leave, whether that or that. We need to move on to the essence of the matter, we need to urgently move on to reform, to think about how to change the justice system, so that external control is not fiction, because this source of pathology is already described. Lord Acton in a known bon power said: all power corrupts, and absolute power, uncontrolled corrupts to an absolute degree. And that's the situation we're dealing with in courts where nothing outside forces efficiency, where nothing outside forces integrity, and in case something gets messed up, it's a fellow judge from the same court that we meet at courses, trainings, trips, and that's how he's gonna protect me, because then I'm gonna protect him. I'm saying, ladies and gentlemen, not from theory, I'm speaking from practice, because as a publisher of the local newspaper, I've had a few dozen court trials, two cases won in Strasbourg, and I really know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What I'm talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u305	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Please, Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman of the National Judicial Council. It is the National Judicial Council which is primarily responsible for the state of the Polish judiciary, for example because it has a real influence on the choice of judges and can supervise, act in the area of disciplinary responsibility and judicial ethics. Unfortunately, the social evaluation of judges' work is very critical and negative. I often meet with this on parliamentary duty or with the cases of people who report to the office and who feel wronged by the justice system. This is also demonstrated by the growing number of complaints, which is in the information presented by your President for 2015. I would like to ask you a question, Mr President: What real proposals does the National Judicial Council have to change this assessment of the perception of the justice system to a positive one, because unfortunately such realistic proposals were not seen in these media relations from the Extraordinary Congress of Polish Judges. So that maybe it is worth considering here, among others. the possibilities that he presented [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Sanocki, however, to introduce more social and civic control over the justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. An important task of the National Judicial Council is to address the risks of judicial independence. In cases of threats of independence of the judges, the National Judicial Council in 2015 took concrete actions, among others. On 15 April, she adopted a position on this matter and in November she expressed strong opposition to the statements made by public officials in the legislative and executive bodies addressed to judges. Subsequently, on 15 December 2015, the Bureau of the National Judicial Council adopted the public statements of certain Members presented in the Legislative Commission with the utmost concern. How do you, Mr President, assess the scale of these threats, and how does this affect and affect the justice system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u309	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! We thank you for the report submitted by the National Courts Council. I think this body is definitely doing its constitutional tasks well. I have a question. The information presented by the National Judicial Council today called for changes in external administrative supervision of common courts in order to minimise the impact of the political factor and the executive authority on the justice system. I would therefore ask you to express the position of the Ministry - I think there is a representative of the Ministry - in relation to this issue, and in particular regarding the possible transfer of administrative supervision of courts to a body other than the Ministry which currently exercises that supervision. At the same time, I would like to refer to some of the information that has been so expressively presented here by some Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why many years of training doctors, why so many years of training lawyers, theologians - three basic areas in which, so to speak, humanities education has been improved for centuries - since we could actually accuse the costs of higher education in general, specialisations, etc. and just announce the folk stands, and choose yourself in direct elections, as we choose today [[♪ The bell ♪]] Councillors. What will this lead us to?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u311	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I wanted to ask the rapporteur a question, but I don't think that's what I'm going to do, so I'm going to ask Mr President at the end. I will say that I am very concerned about the situation and the fact that there were no representatives of power at the last Extraordinary Congress of Polish Judges - there was no president, there was no Prime Minister, there was no Minister of Justice. It is unimaginable that there is no Minister of Justice at the Extraordinary Congress of Polish Judges. If we add to this the ruthless attack by Marshal Terletki, the attacks by Mrs Pawłowicz in the committee against the representatives of the National Judicial Council, then indeed this concern is enormous. It has already been said many times today that it is strange that the President refused to take the oath of 10 judges, not to mention three properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I'm also aware that among the 10,000. There will be judges who really aren't worthy of being judges. If the judge's environment itself does not attempt to remedy this situation, eliminate persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] And judges who are dishonest, unresistant to corruption, they're not gonna do it for them. I have a question for the president...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u313	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u314	...will you take such an attempt? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u315	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In doing business for more than 35 years, I naturally deal with the practice of law enforcement by judges and court presidents. I have a 15-year process in my experience - one 15-year process. The National Judicial Council, its competences, its practice of applying them, its use. The matter was very sensitive, important, because the independence of judges and the independence of courts is super important. However, in business, in business, the duration and function of suitable judges is super important, it affects our business. Let me give you an example: District Court in Szamotuła, Wielkopolska Voivodeship - documents from this court to the District Court in Poznań go 4 months one way and 4 months the other way. The President of the District Court in his arrogance says I can file a personal complaint against him. I say, "That's not what I'm here for. I'm thinking about the causes of this situation. I think it might be the judge's personality traits, the lack of reliable, professional control by the National Courthouse Council. However, I think the most important element is misunderstood by the judges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Presidents of the courts their independence, I think as impunity, and here is a huge field for parliament...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u317	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u318	...a huge field for the national judicial council...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u319	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u320	...who should check it out and control it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u321	Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! If it's questions, it's questions. Question one: Who is the face of the National Judicial Council: you, Mr. Chairman, are you Judge Zurek? For you speak with two different voices. And the second question is, how can it happen that a prosecutor who wants to turn his profession into a judge gets an opinion from her superior that he is a great and available and loyal prosecutor gets a negative opinion from the College of Judges, the Assembly of Judges, the National Judicial Council approves him as a judge and is today a Judge in Life? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u323	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Chairman of the National Judicial Council of Mr Dariusz Zawistowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u324	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to answer your questions. The first concerns the issue of social justice assessment, a critical assessment which is appalling. That's the truth. According to our records, only about 40% society is a good judge of the functioning of the justice system. We are aware that this is a bad result, although fortunately in recent years it has improved slightly, but one would have to ask the fundamental question of why the justice system is so critically perceived by society. We are aware that this question must be answered, that a reliable diagnosis must be made. Unfortunately, in our view, many reasons for this and their removal require consistent action for a long time. We have some proposals here that are able to improve this, but I would like to say that there is a need for determination and a reasonable course of action for years, because this cannot be done within a year, but we are dealing with such a situation that at a time when we already have free Poland, a democratic system, there were more than 20 ministers of justice at that time, which is practically, statistically the Minister of Justice does not occupy its office for more than a year, we have such a problem that e.g. The Constitutional Act on the National Council of Courts has been amended almost 100 times and a reform is being proposed every now and then to improve the functioning of courts, such as: bringing small courts together in large, winding down certain courts. We know what a fuss, for example. caused the so-called. Minister Gowin's reform, which consisted in the liquidation of the smallest courts, was to be a wonderful remedy for the functioning of the judiciary. So, as a judge, we know that the judiciary needs reform, only that the reform of sense and done with judges, and that is what we propose, we have concrete proposals. We are aware that one of the fundamental problems that negatively affects the assessment of justice is the chronicity of proceedings, but of course I am aware that in many cases it is possible to say that a particular judge is guilty, that a particular court is guilty and that proceedings are taking too long, only that, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently dealing with such a situation that the number of cases has increased avalanchely in the courts and that the number of judges has been around the same level for 10 years. Last year, the impact of the cases on the courts increased by 400,000. and it has exceeded 15 million, so the question arises as to whether, in the case of such a number of cases affecting the courts, the proceedings will be conducted smoothly. One of the fundamental demands that the judge's environment claims is to assess the cognition of the courts, because it raises a fundamental question whether all these cases that go to the courts really have to go to the courts and be recognized in such a way that, for example. the court shall rule in first and second instance with full harassment regardless of the nature of the proceedings. The postulate on the limitation of cognition was, practically speaking, at the head of the postulates that were reported at the congress, and was included in the congress resolution. The second fundamental issue is the simplification of procedures. Our procedures are generally too complicated, even for professionals, qualified lawyers, lawyers or lawyers, they are difficult to control, let alone if we were to bring an average citizen to justice and he was to deal with such a procedure. However, there is the possibility of simplifying procedures, removing parts of separate proceedings, because there are too many of them, so there are relatively simple solutions and examples are not difficult. I'd like to mention, for example. the situation quite obvious, relating to the cassation procedure, when we are dealing with a very strange legislative solution, which is that the person who benefits from the exemption from judicial costs in the ordinary court does not benefit from this exemption at the stage of filing the cassation complaint and benefits from the exemption at a later stage in enforcement proceedings. This is a very strange solution. It is enough to amend one procedural provision so that at least this stage of the cassation procedure significantly simplifies and accelerates, because it forces the citizen to apply again for exemption from legal costs when submitting a cassation complaint. This is one such example, where in a clear way, it seems to me, we see that even a simple simplification can result in a very large change. I would like to stress that the judicial community responded to the appeal of the Ministry of Justice made at the end of last year, because the Ministry asked us this question as to whether we wanted to participate in the reform of the justice system and we see some sensible solutions. Such solutions have been notified, but so far the Ministry of Justice has not disclosed whether or not it takes them into account and whether it intends to take them into account. So I would like to declare here that the problem of poor social evaluation of the functioning of justice is a very important and priority issue for us. We want to do a lot to make this public perception better. And that slogan that was given at the congress, which is the right to court, wasn't accidentally found there, because we meant as judges to signal that the courts were for the citizen. This is how the justice system needs to be reformed so that every citizen has the right to have access to court and to a fair trial, so that all judges care. I also wanted to correct a statement here that the National Judicial Council was the organizer of this congress. The National Council was a co-organizer of this congress. He was organized jointly by the National Judicial Council and the judicial associations, or actually at the request of the judicial associations, which bring together almost half of the judges and know what the expectations of the environment are. The judges specifically asked that such a convention be held so that they could declare their willingness to reform the justice system, but also to protect the independence, independence of judges, which are the basis of the democratic system of our state. With regard to the issue of social control or, in general, the assessment of the justice system, it seems to me that here the position and the National Judicial Council, and the judiciary itself, are clear. We clearly claim that the activities of the courts and all judicial decisions are subject to criticism. All we're asking is for this to be factual criticism. If criticism is that someone says that the judgment of the court is defective, because it is, for example. It is not in accordance with the letter of law, or it is not in accordance with the generally accepted interpretation of the law, that we never treat it as an attack on the justice system. We consider such criticism to be fully permitted and necessary. On the other hand, if criticism is based on the fact that the critic is limited to stating who the mother was or who the father of the judge who gave the ruling was, then we believe that this has nothing to do with criticism, and we are protesting against such an assessment of the functioning of the judiciary. I would also like to clarify that, as the National Council of Courts, we are similarly assessing the functioning of the legislative and executive authority, because we assume that in a democratic legal state all authorities are subject to control, no one is above the law. So if the National Judicial Council evaluates some legislation that comes from parliament, it does not do so for political purposes. I would ask you not to assign such intentions to the National Judicial Council. We only speak about the law and use only substantive arguments. If, among those positions presented by the National Judicial Council, there is a statement which does not refer to legal arguments, then of course we will agree with all those who criticised such a position. I hope you can't tell this kind of situation. We are really trying, ladies and gentlemen, to make a purely substantive assessment. The fact that we are criticizing the act of the current parliamentary majority is not an attack on executive power. If we are criticizing a government project, it is not a criticism of the current government. In these documents, which the National Judicial Council prepares, we never refer to the name of the governing party, to the determination of the majority from this point of view. So I understand that some may be critical of the solutions proposed by the current parliamentary majority as entanglement in a political dispute, but there is really no intention on the part of the National Judicial Council, we want to speak about the law and use legal arguments. If, in response to this, Parliament's representative says that we are wrong and makes a legal argument, it seems to me that this is the right level of debate, and then there will be no charge that we are politically involved on any side. Once again, we don't have that kind of intention. As far as the problem of actions threatening the independence of courts and attacks on the judiciary is concerned, I have already tried in part, practically speaking, to answer that question. If such statements arise which are not of a substantive nature, they relate to personal issues, they are so dangerous that they can cause so-called. the freezing effect, because it may turn out that when examining the next case someone will be afraid of this kind of criticism and will not fully rule. So there is a danger in that. Such action is not in line with standards. It is stressed that, of course, in a democratic state, the criticism of the judiciary is acceptable, but it should be of a substantive nature, and in such a case, when criticism comes from representatives of other authorities, it should be moderate, it should take into account that criticism may later raise doubts about the independence of the courts. We never questioned the very possibility of criticism. With regard to the problem of supervision of the functioning of the judiciary, the administrative supervision currently exercised by the Minister of Justice, this is indeed a major problem of the public interest. The National Judicial Council considers that the current model of administrative supervision of courts is not a good solution, especially in a situation where the functions of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General have been merged. This involves not only the merger of these offices. As we remember, the attorney general's procedural powers have been increased at the same time. Potentially, the Attorney General may be a party to court proceedings that are pending may order specific procedural proceedings by the Prosecutor. We don't think it's a good idea for a prosecutor who is potentially a party to legal proceedings to exercise administrative oversight of the courts at the same time. There are experiences from other countries to which we would like to appeal, experience of the administrative judiciary, which is not subject to the supervision of the Minister of Justice and therefore does not function any worse than common justice. We believe that such a solution, in which administrative supervision of courts would be entrusted, for example. the first President of the Supreme Court, with a view to guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary, would be a better solution than the present one. The question also concerned the congress and the absence of representatives of power. I'd like to say that I'm not taking on the role of congressional spokesperson. I could only refer to this from the point of view of the National Judicial Council as a co-organizer of the Congress and explain that the organisers wanted to invite the representatives of the authorities, because we thought it was a good place for the representatives of the legislative and executive authorities to familiarize themselves with the positions of judges. We thought this would be a proper forum for debate. The previous congress, as I said earlier on the committee, took place under the supervision of the president. It was attended by the Minister of Justice, by the Prime Minister, by the Marshal of the Sejm. The invitations were addressed to all of these people. So the fact that they only partially benefited the heads of parliamentary clubs, of course, upset the judges, because we think it would be better if such a declaration of cooperation with the executive and legislative authorities at this congress could be reported directly. Here I would also like to signal that the division and balance of the authorities, which are the basis of our system, assumes not only the separation of these authorities, but their cooperation. So we clearly want the relationship between the judicial authority and the other authorities to take into account the element of cooperation established by the legislator. That is why, for example, we have spoken to the President - thank you for inviting the President to talk to the President's bureau - precisely about the appointments of judges, because we believe that there is a possibility here to talk about this, that there is a way of working in such a situation, when the President, I apologize, Mr President, has reservations about some candidacy. In advance of the question that has been raised here, the National Judicial Council has not yet taken an assessment position, as we should finally understand the President's prerogatives regarding the appointment of judges. This will be the subject of the meeting this month and the national council will take the stand. This position, which was referred to by Judge Żurek, was a position from 2007 - here one of the Members mentioned it - so it is not the current position of the Council. The question was also whether the National Judicial Council is taking any action to eliminate unfair judges by profession, or whether it takes this seriously. I would like to say that the issues of the ethical behaviour of judges are of particular interest to the Council. There is a permanent committee on the ethics board. The National Judicial Council has adopted a code of ethics. In such a symbolic way, we even hand over this code to every newly appointed judge in order to emphasize that this is a matter which is very important to the National Courts Council. Any case in which we have any information on the wrong behaviour of the judge or the allegations in this regard shall be dealt with by the Ethics Committee and the National Judicial Council in such situations where the circumstances of the judge's behaviour raise doubts, shall also make proposals to the disciplinary hearing officer for the initiation of an investigation. And here, too, one of the Members said that in these disciplinary proceedings, the charges mainly concern speeding. It's true that such disciplinary decisions happen. The second group of these disciplinary proceedings, where there are a lot of judgments declaring the fault of the judges, is the timeless drafting of the statements, but I have to say with regret that there are also disciplinary proceedings where these offences are more serious and disciplinary decisions are taken where the judges are transferred to other courts or removed from their duties as a disciplinary judge. Thus, any such case where an unworthy judge who does not allow him to remain in office ends in expulsion from the service and such cases of disciplinary decisions have been a dozen in recent years. One of the Members' questions concerned the length of proceedings. As I said at the outset, we are aware that this is one of the fundamental things that negatively affects the image of the judiciary. As the National Judicial Council - the judicial community also has such demands - we are proposing changes that would reduce the duration of these proceedings. I would like to point out that this is also largely due to the uneven burden on courts of the influence of cases, because we are usually talking about statistics which indicate that, for example. there are 15 million cases affecting courts, but in fact in larger cities, in larger courts these cases have a statistically significant impact, of course, much more than the average, which is still very large. In view of this, one of the main problems is how to solve this problem, so that this large impact of cases is at least evenly balanced, that is to say, to evenly burden the courts with the influence of cases. This is what we are considering and we would like to make some proposals in this regard, because we are aware that a mechanism such a more balanced burden on the impact of cases should be sought. This is one of the forms, and the other is to limit the cognition of cases affecting courts, because we think that it's really, practically speaking, difficult to talk about some real shortening of the length of court proceedings when in larger courts judges have 1,000 or even more cases in their paper. If someone has 1,000 cases lying on the shelf waiting to be resolved, then even with the addition, I don't know how much diligence there is practically no way to identify them within a reasonable period of time that would be satisfactory to the parties. We believe that this needs to be considered seriously, the procedures that provide that, in fact, every case and every dispute, whatever the subject matter of this procedure, must be dealt with by the courts in two instances with certain procedural guarantees. I'm sure that's something to think about. It seems that a large part of the cases would not have to be dealt with by the courts in this way. With regard to the problem of long-term referrals in probably inter-institutional proceedings, I would like to stress that this is probably also related to various procedural issues which should be considered. I've already talked about this case, for example. applying for exemption from judicial costs, which extends the time of referral. This is the problem of the deadline for making excuses. In a situation of heavy burden, a large number of cases not all judges write justifications in time, so the problem of reducing the burden in courts would have an impact in many respects on the possibility of shortening these proceedings. The problem of misunderstood independence of judges. The Member said that the judges did not want to react to the comments, some significant reservations about the procedure, hiding themselves from their independence. Indeed, it can be assumed that there are cases where the notion of independence or independence is misunderstood, because it should generally be a matter of judgment, whereas as regards organisational issues concerning the functioning of courts, it is not every case in which, for example, it is contested. the way in which cases are dealt with, the way in which cases are dealt with, and the time in which cases are dealt with, can be qualified in such a way that this is a simple reconciliation in the independence of the judge. He also asked about this situation when there was a positive opinion about a prosecutor who was a candidate for a judge's position and the National Judicial Council did not take this candidacy into account. I would like to clarify that different elements are taken into account in this nomination process of judges. One is the assembly's opinion, but it is not decisive. So, generally speaking, the fact that the assembly of judges misjudged this candidacy is an element that is taken into account, but it is not a decisive element. Here I assume that if the National Judicial Council did not support this candidacy... [[That's what the whole parody is all about.]] [[Game in the O.R.]] ...that she took it against her position... which means... [[For availability, for loyalty, this is a joke.]] [[Voice from the court: Judge, please speak.]] I see. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for me to address this in a general way, because it would be necessary to know the circumstances of this particular case. But it is not a rule again that the opinion of the assembly, e.g. positive, it already determines that this candidate must be appointed. I will give an example of one of the courts located in the east of our country, where certain people who were associated with this local environment and obtained excellent results in the vote in the assembly, but in this competition there was also a person from outside this environment who had a much higher assessment of the Visitor, a higher assessment from the studies, was heard before the council in this competition and on board members made a much better impression. And now the question is whether, in that case, this assessment of the assembly would be taken into account without all the elements we are talking about here. [[The negative opinion of the assembly?]] No, not negative. She was just very good. I am just saying that it cannot be said that, after a particular competition, the opinion of the assembly will be decisive and, depending on whether it is positive or negative, it must decide which of the candidates will be supported in this nomination process. Here we take into account many elements and the opinion of the General Assembly of Judges is always very important, but it does not have to be decisive. He also asked who was the face of the Council, whether the President or the Ombudsman. As a matter of fact, when it comes to representation of the Council in the media, this is the role of the Ombudsman. So far, I have considered that in situations like this, when someone asks for it, of course I talk to journalists because I am not avoiding it, but the typical role of communicating with the media is, however, the role of the Ombudsman. So I wouldn't be surprised if the answer was that Judge Żurek, who is the council spokesperson, is better known than I am. That's all he can do about these questions. I tried to write them down and answer them as far as I could. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u325	You've already exhausted your speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u326	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u327	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm took note of the activity of the National Judicial Council in 2015. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Mr Jacek Kurzepa and Mr Krzysztof Czabański, the Law and Justice Club, on the defence department's plans to support the systemic needs of the health-care environment of steadfast and insurgent soldiers - to the Minister for National Defence. You're welcome. Mr Jacek Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u328	Marshal, thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence about the defence department's plans to support the systemic needs of the health-care environment of the insurgents and soldiers. The nature of the passing of time results in various problems of age, health, and human condition. In the case of all those who, during their youth, took the effort of defending their homeland and fighting for its dignity and freedom, there have been heavy troubles - captives, wounds and war injuries, long-term prisons and tortures during the investigation and many others. It seems obvious and understandable that it is necessary to acknowledge that now the homeland should, as far as it can, take care of its heroes. That's why this concern and that's why it's a question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Fałkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers and Members, In this case I have announced the actions of the Ministry of National Defence already in spring, in April this year, and I would like to say that they, our plans and actions, stem from moral obligation. He stressed this in his question and I wanted to emphasise this position and this understanding of the issue in particular. To answer very specifically: we are dealing with two aspects or two legal possibilities. On the one hand, because there is a law of 1991 on combatants and some people who are victims of war repression and post-war period, and this is the domain of the action of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, while there is also a second possibility resulting from the Law of December 1993 on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families. In both cases it is not a perfect legal instrument, because we often deal with people who do not have or are unverified as professional soldiers, and often because of our history they are not registered in the veterans' office, here I am thinking in particular of the solid soldiers. That's why we want to be clear... We have already taken steps on the environment's medical care in the first place of unbreakable soldiers. This is the group of people who have lived in the shadow of their judgments, repressions, often disguised, including their families. The Department of me, the Department of Military Health, responds to any reported health crisis situation if there is a person who requires health care other than the care she has had so far, whether long-term or one-off. Such assistance shall be provided immediately. Second thing. The system is being created, he is currently in the final stage of preparation, which is to cover all those who will make their written declaration that they want to be taken into our Ministry of National Defence, medical care. Of course, where there is no such need, because there is sufficient health care in the place of residence or in a place that has so far been the main institution, the main health care facility for this person, we will not do that. There must be a clear desire from either the person concerned or his family. Hospitals and military clinics cover the whole country. Therefore, the distance can be minimized and the appropriate facility, the nearest place of residence of the combatant - now we extend it also to soldiers, Warsaw insurgents - will take care of it. As I said, it is enough to wish, to declare on the part of the family or the person concerned, and this health care is being implemented. This system will be announced both in various environmental organisations and in the way, so to speak, of direct contacts when we formalize it. Where there are individual random cases, we react immediately. This is both the case at the moment - in two such cases at the moment - and we have done so in previous months. I would like to stress that it is a clear directive resulting from a moral obligation, and a sense of human solidarity, that we will develop this action, transform it into a system, and that after this system does not function well, we will respond to any informal notification, which means, by the way, whether personal interventions or information obtained in different ways. We're here for sure and ready and willing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u331	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by MEPs Krzysztof Gadowski, Paweł Bańkowski and Danuta Pietraszewska on the ongoing process of mine decommissioning - to the Minister of Energy. Your first question is Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u332	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In August, media news came out, Minister, about the black list of coal mines to close. In addition to this information, a loss of 1 tonnes of coal was also reported and these mines were identified. Among them were: Sośnica mine, whose losses per tonne of coal amounted to 128 zł, Room mine - 118 zł, Krupiński mine - 111 zł, Rydultowy-Anna mine - over 40 zł, Halemba-Wirek mine - over 35 zł. After this information, the State as Ministry tried to straighten it out somehow, but the facts turned out to be different. A few days later, the president of the Jastrzębski company talked about the liquidation of the Krupiński mine. It's just one example. There's more mines, more mines. That's why questions are born. Which mines or mining plant movements will be liquidated and in what period? What criteria did the government adopt by launching the mine decommissioning process? Minister, these movements are also linked to the fact that miners will move to the mine restructuring company, so they will clearly be covered by the equivalent. Question: "When will you present a project related to payment of the equivalent for pensioners?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u333	Please, Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Since I am a redhead, I am particularly interested in the fate of the Silesian Movement. A year ago, there was no mention of the mine being destroyed. Today the inhabitants and miners ask: why this mine goes into liquidation, what were the reasons for giving it to the SRK, because this mine has the best quality coke coal, has equipment, has people, feeds on two walls, [[♪ The bell ♪]] two the following are cut and there are further walls on which it can be mined.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u335	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u336	This is no longer a dangerous mine, because there is no more Panewnic Field.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u337	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u338	I'd like to know why this mine was sentenced to liquidation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u339	Thank you very much. Please answer the question of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Members! Thank you very much for calling again the subject of this famous blacklist, because such a list has never been and is not in the ministry, and I want to repeat it very strongly again. Thank you, too. In fact, this media bomb that caused us to have to put it down, and we were in the middle of some serious negotiations with the social side, I don't think it was random. On the other hand, when it comes to the definition of "decommissioning of mines," I would like to say that at the moment when a certain stage was actually completed in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, the relevant agreements were signed with the bank party. Before that, we carried out a process of financial Sanctification, but also carried out an analysis of each mine, as I said, in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa separately. And I must say that I am pleased that today's discussion in the committee will continue and we will be able to show how much the Krupinski mine is being liquidated, because I think it is important that we define what it means to liquidate the mine. Because if there is an asset that is called a suitable mine, and there is a lack of access or very difficult access to the deposit, which is connected with security or its efficiency, and we can talk here not about millions, but about hundreds of millions, as in the case of Krupinski, then the question arises whether this mine is being liquidated, or whether it has been carried out de facto from the technical point of view in recent years, that today is technically very difficult to grasp. I just want to give you some information about the Krupiński mine so we can have an idea of what the investment problem is. Over the last 10 years, PLN 970 million have been allocated for investments in this mine. The crew, you have to say, is one of the best in the Jastrzębska Coal Company. And this mine because of its leadership, its technical condition... The management carried out in it makes it difficult to reach this coking coal, which is the foundation of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company, and this makes it possible to naturalize two prepared walls of energy coal today, and actually in a natural way from the technical, economic point of view, there is a mine, which in this whole system of Jastrzębska Węglowa Company. Let's see how Jastrzębska Spółka begins to regenerate slowly as an entity that has a solid place in the market - of course we are talking about a foundation, because many challenges are still ahead of us. As for the Silesia mine, Madam, I would like to say that we have energy coal there, not coke-making. I'll give you some numbers. Unfortunately, it is a dangerous mine, and here I do not want to rely only on this issue, while this is the most dull mine in Poland. Compared to the fact that you mentioned that there is no Panewnic Field - yes, but there are some very difficult deposits available, which require incredible finesse when it comes to investments and expenditures, so that we can drive this mine safely, because it is out-of-discussive. I'm not talking about the economic aspect, about the quality of coal. And we can compare here that as in other mines we have had in recent years, from 1993 to 2015, fatal accidents 3, 26, 10, that here was 37 in these last years, and 32 were serious accidents. So this mine requires a huge, different concern when it comes to the investment plan. We are currently in the process of dialogue with the Higher Mining Authority, as well as with the social side, because there are also two walls that can be drawn, and naturally we plan these walls next year to choose to naturally end this mine in its own capacity. So look at you, like the Polish Wirek mine, like Wawel mine and other mines that come to some technical exhaustion, also in the context of the Silesia mine or the Krupiński mine we have a similar phenomenon. And I want to stress very strongly that there are no plans for us to liquidate the mining assets that have a future when it comes to accessing the deposit. And this is something I was talking about last year as a Member, and I repeat this: the key is access to the deposit, economic and technical possibilities of mining this coal, which in the context of the Polish Mining Group, Katowice Holding Węglowy or Jastrzębska Węglowa Company can be a strong asset to build very strong structures of each company. As far as the Deputy Act is concerned, it is now undergoing an inter-ministerial arrangement. The latest opinions are in the Ministry of Finance. We then submit this dialogue to the Council, because the dialogue board asked, said that it wanted it to be submitted to it for consultation, as well as to the environments associated with organisations that should express their opinion. And I hope that after this public consultation that we are starting now in September, we will submit to Parliament an appropriate bill. This is the current law, we at the Ministry of Energy have prepared it, as I announced in the first half of the year, now these months are inter-ministerial consultations, so I hope that this year we will be able to submit it to the High Council this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u341	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, during the election campaign last year, Prime Minister Beata Szydło declared that places in mining will not only decrease, but will create new ones. My question is: How many jobs have been created in mining by coal companies and professional groups in the last 10 months, i.e. since the rule was taken over by Law and Justice, and how many have been removed or planned for liquidation? The Industrial Development Agency reports that coal levels are steadily increasing. At the end of July it was 4700 thousand. T, I'm sorry, at the end of May. At the end of July it was 5300,000. a. Question: "What action has the Ministry of Energy taken together with coal companies' boards to sell coal profitable and ensure the viability of mines?" Finally: What action has the Ministry of Energy taken in the last 10 months on obtaining [[♪ The bell ♪]] An investor for the Makoshov mine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u343	Thank you very much. Once again, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your question about Makoshów. I think this is a very important question, because we need to tell ourselves some truths about Makoshov. The previous government stated on some basis that Makoszowy mine was transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mine. As we know, this company has the task of eliminating those mining parts which are no longer due to existence in the hard coal market or are in fact no longer needed to extract or possibly mine mine scrapped their deposits and ended their existence in the SRK to make it mild. So I understand that the previous government consciously decided to transfer Makoshowy to liquidation. I would like to say that this mine has actually undergone a restructuring process, but unfortunately it has not been kept in the management of this mine with certain arrangements, and that is what I am saying with full responsibility, because it has been allocated to an investment plan and to coal mining 220 million. This makes investors who were interested, for example from the energy sector, in acquiring this mine, unable to bear the burden of 220 million. This also caused the problem of selling coal in Makoshova itself. However, through the intervention of the Ministry, more than 300,000 were sold. t coal, which caused us to reduce the cost of operating this mine. Although the interest of entities, including the construction of the Katowice Coal Holding, this mine makes it impossible for them to tell the facts, the truth, how much has been invested in this mine and that it is not fully profitable today when it comes to the behaviour of some representatives of the social side. Secondly, there are certain arrangements made in Brussels because it has been notified for liquidation. This makes investors concerned that they may not agree with the social side by investing large funds in KWK Makoszowy. That's what it is about Makoshowy. As for jobs, I would like to say that the term of office of this Sejm is not over. Speaking of jobs, we are not removing jobs in the hard coal sector for today. It is true that through the restructuring process some people will go to SRK for checks, while those who want to stay in this mining space will have their jobs. And I must say today that the demand for new workers is very strong, because in some mines an investment plan is prepared to increase coal production. As for the surplus of coal that we found on the market, because I have to say that we have actually found huge surplus coal related to pre-sales in energy, for the first half of the year, as we compare the 2015 report, the sales of raw materials are increased not only in the energy sector, but also in electricity plants. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just one sentence, Marshal, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u345	Good. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: And the second thing - you can see a sharp increase in the sales of coke coal and its volume in terms of prices, but also a reduction in the costs of operation of individual mines, so that there is efficiency in individual mines, in individual entities of the hard coal sector. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the third question. The question has been prepared by Mr Józef Brynkus and Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz,15. The question is about continuing to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes, crimes and fraud against the State Treasury. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. The question is asked by Mr Józef Brynus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the case of reprivatization scandal in Warsaw, and rightly so, but the scope of pathology relating to property issues in Poland after 1989 is much wider, covers other issues that are worth mentioning during the events in Warsaw. These pathologies refer to e.g. to scandalous privatisations of post-PRL facilities, e.g. Malolitrażowy Car Factory in Bielsko-Biała. It was sold to the Italians for proverbial gold, it could be said to be a thieving penny, even a psi, while being deprived of 25,000. employees due to their employee shares. This case requires not only clarification but also punishment by the relevant state authorities. Therefore, I have a question to the Minister of Justice: Why, despite the noisy media announcements about the failure of certain crimes, has not yet been sent to the Sejm by a draft law on continuing to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes and fraud against the State Treasury, the perpetrators of undermining the real value of privatized enterprises and banks and the perpetrators of the plundering of national assets, as well as the perpetrators of the robberies of many thousands of citizens from their rights to free labour shares? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u347	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, Minister Michał Wójcik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u348	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, Ladies and gentlemen! I am trying to read the text of this question carefully, and I am wondering which conference the honourable Member was talking about, because, as far as the issues are concerned, the issues that you have raised, we have never announced, for example. the application of limitation institutions. What I'm saying is that we publicly announced the fight against those crimes that were directed against life or sexual freedom. And here we announce that no limitation institution will be used in the case of the most serious crimes. This is about crimes such as murder, rape with special cruelty, rape of a minor under 15 years of age, pedophilia, cruelty in this case or the existence of a repeat. We have announced this, and this is what we set out a few weeks ago about the project we are preparing, which we will allow the High House to present shortly. In this respect, We were talking about the fact that, if the amount of the penalty at stake is such and not different, we provide for very severe penalties, then there will be no limitation institution. On the other hand, in the case of widely understood crimes, which can be described as financial or economic - that is what the Member has just said - I would like to say that we are also, of course, preparing some solutions. However, I would like to add that I do not know the system in any European country, where in such cases, for example. the limitation institution shall be excluded. This is the penalty for the specific acts that are being committed in this area. Another situation is in the case of crimes against life, as I said, crimes, e.g. homicide crimes, and a different situation is in the case of reprivatisation cases involving property, business turnover, etc. I would like to say, of course, that this issue is not marginalized in the work of the Ministry of Justice, because, as I have just signaled, we are preparing a project in this area. I am about to mention some of the details that you have touched on, but I will also remind you that, as the Ministry, we have supported the parliamentary project. It was a draft law on amending the Penal Code Act and it was about extending the limitation periods of criminal offences by either 5 years or 10 years. In the case of 5 years, it was a matter of actions that were punishable by a sentence not exceeding 3 years imprisonment, and in the case of 10 years it was another offence. This amendment entered into force in March under the law which was passed by the Sejm in January, just the law on amending the Law of the Penal Code. At the moment, however, we are preparing changes - they are at the stage of internal consultation - which concern e.g. VAT fraud, economic crime. It's about a project that, among other things, is. provides for a specific form of qualified crime, crimes against property, against economic turnover. Here, indeed, in the case of multiples of the amount that determines the value of the property, we provide for very severe penalties, depending on what the act is: whether against property or against economic turnover. It may be a punishment of at least 3 years, but we also provide for a punishment of 25 years imprisonment. We predict in the project, among others. the introduction of Article. 306a Penal Code, which e.g. provides that, in the case of individual offences against economic turnover, property of more than 10 times the amount of the value of the offence shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of not less than 3 years. So I would like to point out that we are not undermining this problem precisely because of what the Supreme Audit Chamber has claimed to notice. In one of her reports she pointed out that there are very large amounts that we just lose because of crime, these are tens of billions of zlotys. He is robbed, I am robbed, every one of us is robbed, citizens are robbed, from which came a project which actually provides for far-reaching penalties. As regards the institution of limitation in this case, taking into account the arrangements currently applied in Article. 101 and Article 101 102 of the Penal Code, in the event of a major economic scandal, we will have a statute of limitations which will take place after 30 years. However, it does not seem a good idea to eliminate at all, so that the limitation does not apply in such cases at all, because, as I said at the beginning, this is a completely different area of crime. I personally do not know the European system, any country where this institution would be excluded. But we're definitely tightening our punishments. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u349	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question, the fourth question, was prepared by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus and Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, on the incident that occurred at the funeral ceremonies at the Garnison Cemetery in Gdansk on 28 August 2016, to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u350	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I regret that Minister Błaszczak is not here because my questions relate specifically to the Minister's statements. Of course, I mean the incident that took place at the state ceremony, which was the funeral of Danuta Sidzikówna and Felix Selmanowicz, Zagonczyk, in Gdańsk. Minister Błaszczak said that people from the Democratic Defence Committee provoked other funeral participants. I, to be honest, am a little surprised by this statement, because I have reviewed all possible accounts of this event, both in commercial media and in the media, in public television, and in any of those films that are available to all of us, there is no provocation from the funeral participants, from the Committee for Democracy. What we're seeing is a verbal attack, as well as shoving, poking on the part of the ONR. So my question is: On what basis does the Minister state that the participation of people from the Committee for Democracy is provocative? My second question is the behaviour of the police. The cops brought out the people who were attacked and left the people who attacked the previous ones in the crowd. I ask: Why did the Gdansk police behave like this? And my third question is this: What steps are you going to take to punish those perpetrators who attacked other people during this funeral?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u351	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! Minister Błaszczak isn't in the O.R. right now because he's in London. He went to claim the safety of Poles in Great Britain. All the media are reporting this today, so it is a statement by Mrs Błaszczak that it is a pity that Mr Błaszczak is not here, and it is completely incomprehensible. The question that we were told earlier was about an alleged incident or incident in the Garrison Cemetery in Gdansk, and now the Member asks... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: No.]] ...which will be the subject of the next question, and then I will address it further. But since this has been drafted as you have done, I would like to say, first of all, that from the information we have, from the police and from the media reports, it appears that during the funeral of Danuta Sidzikówna and Felix Selmanowicz ps. Zagończyk, in Gdansk, was neither directly coerced by the police nor was there a violation of the personal integrity of the participants of this funeral assembly. It was a large assembly, calculated at about 15,000. persons. Among the participants there appeared people with signs and flags, at least a flag, as on the Internet I saw a taken document. I've got a flash drive in front of me, you can see that. There's at least one flag - code. Because there was a situation of tension and security threats, the police reacted in such a way that they wanted to ensure safety for those who might have been subject to some sort of aggression. It is both about this one participant with a CODE stamp on the street. The Holy Spirit, as well as about a dozen people, as it is called, near the film, also a group, as it was called, of women who were still in another place of this assembly. As far as the police are concerned, they have been correct and so always the police are acting that, in order not to allow the escalation of the conflict, they ensure safety in the most optimal way, as the situation shows. Here the police did not bring out - Mrs, but here use the right terms - the force of no one, there was conversation, there was persuasion. It is about a group of several people headed by Mr Kiev, Chairman of the CODE, and the other person who had his hand wrapped in it. This case is not fully explained as to what this issue was related to the alleged loss. Mr Radomir Szumelda, because he was speaking of, could not point out the circumstances, nor the person or persons suspected of hurting him. So the police didn't get that kind of information here. Few of this, did not receive information from any of the activists or participants qualified as members of the CODE, about the fact that someone violated their personal immunity. After the interview, this group came out in police escorts. The police kept them safe, and it was a very correct operation. If the police hadn't, there might have been an escalation of this conflict between CODE members and the rest of the participants. It is hard to imagine, Madame, that the police would bring out or escort out the 15,000th crowd, although I do not claim that the entire assembly reacted this way, but only part of it. But it was a professional act. The only thing that came up when it came to the cemetery, because here in the announcement of the questions it appeared, was the launch of the rac during the funeral ceremony. It is assumed that these flares were fired as a kind of salvage during the burial of the ashes of the cursed soldiers, but in this case the police are conducting proceedings for art. 52 misdemeanors. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But that is not what I asked.]] In other words, I would like to say once again that in my view, the police were doing the right thing, and its purpose was to guarantee the safety of all the participants in the funeral assembly. As for the actions that followed, because maybe this is important, I want to quote a few facts. On 30 August, the District Attorney's Office of Gdańsk-Śródmieście, on the basis of the press articles and notes sent from the City Police Headquarters in Gdańsk, took ex officio investigation of the violation of the physical integrity of the CODE activist Mr. Radom Szumłda, because this case needs to be clarified. At the same time on 1 September 2016 materials were sent from the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Gdańsk to the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdańsk-Śródmieście. On 31 August 2016, a notice was received from the injured CODE activist Mai Augustinek at Police Station II in Gdansk on the offence committed in Article. 217 § 1 of the Criminal Code, i.e. Infringement of bodily integrity during the above mentioned period. It's a celebration. The materials were sent to the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdańsk-Śródmieście in the footsteps behind the above mentioned. documents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, two more sentences, if you don't mind. On 31 August 2016, the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Gdańsk-Śródmieście received a notice from the members of the ONR concerning the disruption of religious and funeral ceremonies. As you can see, we are dealing with several notifications, reports that will be investigated by the prosecution. They all came in a few days after the funeral, on the day of the funeral there were no reports, no complaints about a personal immunity violation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: May I?]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u354	Minister! I know exactly where Minister Błaszczak is, and I dream of such a situation when in every case of violence and aggression towards Poles Minister Błaszczak reacts in such a rapid manner. I hope that he will return from London with reflection, which can lead to acts of aggression, violence, racism and xenophobia towards another person. I hope so. But, Minister, I don't think you know the whole thing. I'm not a detective, but I'd be happy to prepare you a material and a film on which the ONR environment has words for people in the Committee for Democracy that I won't quote, for the letter "K," for the letter "K" on "K" and there's no response. It's verbal violence. And the last point I would like to draw your attention to. At this funeral there were people who had two flags of the Democratic Defence Committee, while there was a sea of ONR flags. Sea of ONR flags. I'd be happy to provide you with all these materials. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because apparently you don't have all the materials and you don't want to solve this case properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u355	Thank you very much, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u356	Madame, the ONR flags are not prohibited, and the CODE flags are, of course, too, but the fact that these flags...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u357	But you said there was a provocation...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u358	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u359	...and that the CODE people...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u360	Please answer the Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: The rule is, I'm answering now, I have a feeling, but if you're still talking, it's up to your marshal to decide. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Good.]] Well, the ONR flags are not banned, so they had the right to be there, the CODE flags probably also, but the reaction of people to the appearance of CODE representatives was such that they could be in danger, so the police kept them safe, and that's how we understand it. Please also bear in mind that when it comes to allegations of violence, there was one such incident - and on the flash drive it is - when someone tried to rip out the flag of the CODE to the person who carried the flag. At a time when this group of dozens was escorted by the police to a safe place, the police officer just reacted to whoever was trying to rip out the flag, and it was obviously a member not of the CODE, but of the other side. So please pay attention to the police's actions, they really were very balanced, very professional and you can't say a bad word about the police. We will always make sure that all who attend legal assemblies are safe. The police have often separated the troubled groups during various manifestations, counter-manifestations, and as you will remember, ever since the Law and Justice were in power, it has always been effective. It didn't work before, unfortunately, let's just recall the incidents during the Independence March. Thank you. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Can I have another one?]] No, unfortunately, the Member has already run out of time. Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the fifth question. The question is asked by Members Jarosław Szlachetka, Krzysztof Ostrowski, Joanna Kopcińska and Łukasz Schreiber from the Law and Justice Club on the course of World Youth Days in Krakow. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Nobletka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u361	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are all still very impressed and are experiencing the World Youth Days of Kraków 2016. Kraków became the spiritual capital of the world last week of July this year. Central events gathered hundreds of thousands of young people from over 187 countries from all over the world in Małopolska to meet Pope Francis. The primary and priority issue at the organisation of such a big event for both the organisational committee and for all state institutions was the provision of comprehensive security. During over half a year of preparation for World Youth Days, there were many comments in the media, among others. various security experts criticizing the preparations of Polish security services, which were certainly not a promotion or an incentive to participate in events related to World Youth Day: a real threat during World Youth Day. There will be sacrifices and shame for Poland?, Chaos before World Youth Day 2016 in Cracow, World Youth Day 2016 threatened?, World Youth Day. The Pope will perform a mass in the mud? - it's just some headlines from the press or the Internet. Despite this, as stated by the organization committee of the World Youth Days, more than 2.5 million pilgrims took part in the Sunday Mass at the Campus Misericordiae in the Podwielice Beach. The whole week of central events in Krakow, as well as throughout Małopolska, passed peacefully and without major incidents. The movement of the pilgrims to and from the shores took place safely and without major problems. Such an efficient course of World Youth Days - ensuring the safety of thousands of pilgrims from the country and abroad, led by Pope Francis, delegation of state authorities - would not have been possible if it had not been for professionalism, commitment and sacrificial service of the relevant law enforcement services assisted, among others. by a number of volunteers [[♪ The bell ♪]] from volunteer firefighters. Minister, how many forces and resources were involved by the police services, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in securing the stay of His Holiness Pope Francis and pilgrims from around the world during the central events of the World Youth Days, which took place on July 25, 31, 2016 in Cracow? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered again by Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! I had the opportunity from this place before World Youth Day to inform the High Sejm about the preparations for this extraordinary event, and then I assured the government that we would do everything to make it safe, and that it would be safe, although always behind our heads we had all the information that came to us from the world, and it was quite close even, because then there were terrorist attacks, also near our borders. However, we knew that our services were doing everything, and in a very professional way, to prevent anything that could endanger the safety of the World Youth Days. Indeed, then there were voices, especially from the opposition, that there would be no security, even such demands as to even cancel the World Youth Days, declare defeat, and be warned that it would be wrong. This mud is just one example, there were more pessimistic black visions. Our services stood at the level of the task, there was good coordination and we have a great success, a great success on an international scale - we were praised as Poland throughout the world. Participants came to Poland from 187 countries of the world. It was hundreds of thousands, actually millions, counting together. These numbers are difficult to accurately estimate, but it is estimated that more than 3.5 million people participated in World Youth Day. They were young people mostly, so it's a good impression they made from Poland, it's going to be a percentage in the future. They will be politicians, people of culture, businessmen, they will perform various functions in diplomacy in various fields. They will want to go back to Poland because it was friendly, hospitable and safe here. And this is really something worth remembering, it's worth emphasising, it's worth thanking the services for their dedication, commitment and professionalism. It took almost eight months to prepare. I'm not hiding that we've come to such a situation after we've taken power, that nothing has been done. Place has been indicated, that's all. [[Oh, Jesus, Minister, please.]] And the challenges were powerful when it came to the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. [[Powerful... everything's ready.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u364	But I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: We are proud of Poland today, we are proud of Polish services. I think if the opposition were a little more mature, it would also thank the government. How much, you ask the Member, the forces and resources have been involved. Let's just say as much as it takes. It means that it is difficult to count exactly all the forces and means, because we would have to sum it up: every vehicle, every police officer, every firefighter in relation to what was the subject of action in individual dioceses, and what was in different places of these greatest events, in the Beaches, in Krakow, in Częstochowa, and earlier in relation to the NATO summit, also in Warsaw. However, I can give approximate figures when it comes to data about people in particular. In this climaxing week, the most important week, i.e. the central celebrations, more than 20,000 took part in their security. Polish Police Officers. Police officers performed their tasks, as well as representatives of other formations, as part of planned operations and sub-operations. Let me remind you: the main operation of the cryptonym of the Alliance, the two sub-operations of Rubin and Katowice, and the sub-operation of Kontra - anti-terrorist protection. As far as the other services are concerned, I am already focusing on World Youth Day only, on this climax week - 830 officers of the Government Protection Office, 14 600 officers of the Border Guard - I remind you that border control was restored for a month, July, July 4th to August 2nd - 1400 Customs officers, 2135 officers of the Railway Guard. And you have to add 2,000. Soldiers, 600 military police officers, 10,000. Firefighters of the State Fire Department, 9,000. Volunteer firefighters. These are the main services, but they were also involved in civil services - I no longer count special services here, which also had an important role in securing the World Youth Days. As far as means of transport are concerned, it is difficult to give an exact number, but we would probably indicate about 10,000. vehicles involved in these activities. As I said, operations and sub-ops were planned, all under the direction of experienced police officers. The Deputy Chief of Police led the main operation of the Alliance, as well as sub-operations were headed by officers of the management level of the voivodship command in Krakow and Katowice. The Head of Bureau of Anti-Terrorist Operations was responsible for the sub-operation of Kontra. As you know, it was adopted - the Sejm voted on it - a special law that enabled organisational action and also ensured [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial security for World Youth Days. Therefore, the funds provided for in this Act have been used to prepare the World Youth Days for safety and organisation as best as possible. And I think that what today is the subject of such high grades all over the world, as the Pope himself also noted, this is the result... Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...more or less these forces and means and coordination activities of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u365	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The recent terrorist attacks in France, Belgium, Germany and the United States raised many concerns and questions about security during preparations for World Youth Days in Poland. In the international space there were opinions and comments that even advised against coming to Poland and taking part in World Youth Day. These recommendations were made by the U.S. Department of State because of a terrorist threat. Minister, have there been incidents during World Youth Days that could indicate any attempts to prepare a possible terrorist attack? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u366	Thank you, Member. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u367	High Seym! Mrs. Member! Among those actions that I referred to earlier, I pointed out e.g. to restore border control, temporary border control. In the framework of this audit, 484 thousand were checked. persons. 321 people were detained. That's maybe an interesting number. Despite such a large number of persons checked and a significant number of arrests as regards terrorist suspicions, the cases here were completely individual. There's one thing you're informed about because the media talked about, wrote about, showed it. It was the arrest and immediate expulsion of a person suspected of carrying terrorist threats from Poland. It is about an Austrian citizen who was detained 10 minutes after midnight on 31 July when the largest Holy Mass was to take place in the Brzech near Krakow. And in the manner provided for by the Anti-Terrorism Act, which we also prepared for this time - for 8 years the Platform could not do it - we could effectively expel this foreigner from Poland. The second such case took place after World Youth Day, we had not informed about it before, because it was about doing this effectively first. This was about a Saudi citizen, but it was after World Youth Day. There were individual incidents, incidents, as I said about terrorist threats. There have been a number of other events that have been detected and countered by the service, but if we draw a conclusion from all the activities and knowledge that we have, we could say that Poland was free from major terrorist threats. On the other hand, the vigilance of the services caused all these incidents, individual threats, to be caught and eliminated. Other threats, not terrorist, but security-related, have also been detected and disabled by the Secret Service and the MMA. So that it wasn't so safe that the servants had nothing to do, but there were no situations that could pose a direct threat. Perhaps these threats could have occurred if it had not been for the watchfulness of the servants. That's what you need to see. We said it again, and I'm going to say that the servants will do everything they can to make sure it's safe, and that's what they've done. They had some work to do, it's not like everything was in advance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The result is that everything we know was safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u368	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: The participants could focus on religious experiences, so on experiencing what they came for. They could listen to the words of the Holy Father, not look over their shoulders if they were in danger. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel and Mr Adam Korol from the Civic Platform club about the beating of CODE activists during the funeral celebrations of Danuta Sidzikówny and Felix Selmanowicz to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u369	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to get back to the case we've already discussed, that is. to unpleasant incidents during the funeral of Danuta Siedzikówna and Felix Selmanowicz at the Mariacka Basilica in Gdansk, where there was a physical attack on a group of people from CODE, including women. The Minister says he has information about it from the Internet on the flash drive. It's a little bit, I have to say, disturbing that our security depends on information from the Internet. I would also like to point out, Minister, that we, as charity, were there and we saw it, did not have to draw this information from the Internet. So I ask the Minister, "What are the consequences for people who aggressively attack CODE activists during this funeral ceremony?" I would also like to ask the Minister if these people who behaved so aggressively were written down. I agree with the Minister that the police should intervene. It's a good thing she was doing it, but why were quiet people asked to do it, and not those who were throwing abusive words and physically attacking? This is the ripping from public space of those who have different views. I would like to point out that the flags were owned not only by members of the CODE, but also by nationalists from ONR and Youth of All Poland, also during Mass at the Marian Church. Since the invitations have been sent to all the volunteers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. with social media, no one should be asked out of the ceremony. This attack is the result of the ownership of patriotic traditions by the current rulers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u370	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u371	As a Platform, we condemn this act of political violence and demand law enforcement to conduct a vigorous investigation and punish the guilty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u372	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Minister Jarosław Zieliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! High Izbo! I have just said that there has been no violence, and the Member claims that there has been violence. [[I saw it. Minister, I was there.]] I don't get information from the Internet. You didn't listen to me, of course you listened maliciously, but it does. [[Can you listen maliciously?]] I was talking about the fact that this is based on police data - please open the protocol - and also that I've looked over what was on the Internet, because just your side, the opposition side is currently referring to some... [[Specialist.]] ...films on the Internet. I mean, even on these videos, you can see that there was no violence. But we are mainly based, of course, on police data, and I firmly state that violence and personal immunity have not been violated. So please interpret these facts a little differently. I don't want to go into a sphere that would trigger a whole new thread of discussion, which is why the CODE representatives went to this funeral. [[Because they were invited.]] No, they went to provoke it, it's pretty obvious. But let's leave it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u374	Minister! Please, really, every citizen in our country... [[Minister, what kind of question is that?]] ...has the right to be at the funeral and at the celebrations. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I said it first, and that's what I want to stick to... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: ...that the police are obliged to ensure safety... [[It's a shame!]] ...anyone who doesn't violate the law. And she assured me she didn't bring anyone out. Once again, Mrs Kiev, there have been talks with Mr Mateusz Kiev, double, triple. Finally, he and this group decided to leave this place to go somewhere safe. The police escorted this group, protected them, protected them so they wouldn't get hurt... [[Voice from the room: Oh, yeah, yeah.]] ...because she could get hurt. Only then would there be grudges in this room, and they would probably be justified in some sense. But the police, acting professionally, didn't let that happen. [[You could get ONR out.]] It was not possible, Commissioner, to bring out such a large group. It would be very risky, unprofessional, but under different circumstances... [[Was the police scared?]] Will you allow me to finish, or will you shout and disturb me, Member? I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: But I'm asking for culture. [[It wasn't me.]] No, ma'am, no, your souffler in the back. [[You're talking to me.]] I'm not gonna get provoked, okay? So, in short, under the conditions they were there, under the circumstances, the police did everything they could, and they did it effectively. And precisely because it acted effectively, there was no escalation of conflict, more tension, violence and violations of human rights and personal immunity. The data that I recalled that it was only a few days before the notifications were made must be properly read. At that point in time when the police were able to accept such notices, no such charges were made, no one formulated them. Therefore, the D.A.'s office will now explain this matter. There are reports from both sides. This is beyond the competence of the police and, of course, beyond the competence of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The prosecution will examine and explain all these issues. The incident we are talking about had a dynamic course, of course no one was able to predict it, but it happened. The police were close, since 277 police officers were assigned to secure this operation, 19 were at the scene of the incident, they responded correctly. Once again, I stress: the conduct of the officers was appropriate, especially in view of all possible actions aimed at separating the group of representatives of the CODE and ensuring their physical security. These were the ones that were at stake, their safety while at the same time being rational and effective, eliminating the risk of crowd aggression and escalation of conflict. The police officers intervening and assisting CODE representatives were not directly witnesses of the violation of personal immunity and such notifications - I stress this once again - they did not receive from any of the participants of the assembly. At the same time, immediately after the incident, they did not receive information from persons from this group that could indicate such an event. These are facts. The manner in which the intervention was carried out was appropriate and optimal in circumstances of real risk of serious disruption and seriousness of funeral ceremonies. I am already overlooking this, and it must not be overlooked how serious, how deep, patriotic the nature of these celebrations was. They weren't allowed to interfere with anyone, but the incident happened, but the police prevented what could happen if it acted unprofessionally. [[But ONR wasn't punished.]] What's he going to be punished for? [[To abusive words.]] [[To the attacks.]] [[There's an investigation.]] There's an investigation, yes, there's an investigation. Words have been recorded: off with communion, communists. Are those insulting words? Probably for who they're referring to, yeah. But are they forbidden? Let the D.A. judge it. The D.A. got the materials, got the reports, the reports, he's gonna investigate it, and we're gonna wait. On the other hand, I strongly defend the police and their way of doing things, because it was the right way of doing things. He prevented what might have happened if it had been different. Security has been ensured for all, and this is a fundamental thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April and Mr Jacek Sasin and Mr Stanisław Pieta, the Law and Justice Club, on the European Health Insurance Card (EKUZ), which will allow Poles to benefit from medical assistance in the context of universal health insurance in the EU and EFTA countries in an emergency. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Anna April. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u375	Minister! Maybe I'll start with your marshal. I'm so sorry, Minister. Mrs. Marshal! On holiday abroad, we take with us the European Health Insurance Card. Thanks to the emergency insurance card, Poles can benefit from medical assistance under universal health insurance in the European Union and EFTA countries. The European Health Insurance Card shall be issued free of charge and in the event of a positive confirmation of the rights at hand. A person with such insurance shall have the right to medical benefits necessary during his or her temporary stay in the country concerned. The extent of the benefits shall be decided by the doctor of the country concerned. Therefore, I have a few questions that the person who came to my office asked me: Is there any scope of benefits that are not subject to insurance? Are there any differences in the provision of health services in individual countries? If yes, please indicate in which countries subsidies are to be expected and the extent of benefits they relate. What problems do Poles with European insurance face in the implementation of health benefits under the European Health Insurance Charter? Do we monitor the scale of such problems and how do we counteract them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u376	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Piotr Gryza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u377	Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! To answer this question, I would first like to inform you that the rules on the clearance of residence and health insurance of persons insured in another country, and in EU countries, and in EFTA countries, are laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of the social security system. This principle generally boils down to such an important rule that we receive those benefits that they benefit from in the country concerned. Since the schemes are different, we benefit from those benefits that citizens benefit from, so health benefits provided under the European Health Insurance Card are carried out on the same terms and to the same extent as those applied to insured persons in the country concerned. This means that a person who has received an EKUZ card can benefit in the country of residence only from health care benefits covered by a basket of guaranteed benefits as defined in the country in question, i.e. in Switzerland dental treatment is not refunded under general health insurance and we cannot receive this benefit. This also means that the holder of the EKUZ card, which goes beyond the borders of Poland, is obliged to pay additional fees from his own resources if this is provided for under the insurance system. In many Member States of the European Union and the EFTA States, the own contribution of insured persons to the costs of providing health services shall apply. In a large part of these countries there is a partial payment of various amounts, and in a large part there is an outpatient treatment. In several countries, i.e. in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the principle is to bear by patients the full costs of outpatient treatment, which are then refunded by sick money, but not in full amount e.g. in France, about 70%. The Polish insured person may also apply for such a refund directly to the cashier of the sick on the spot or after returning to the country to the National Health Fund, with the National Health Fund refunding only the part of the costs borne by the health insurance institution in the country of residence. Urgent hospital treatment on the basis of the EHIC card is exempted from fees in the following countries: Cyprus, Denmark, Spain, the Netherlands, Ireland, Iceland, Lithuania, Malta, Norway, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary, Italy. In other EU and EFTA countries, hospital treatment is subject to very different charges. The highest fees apply in Switzerland, France, Finland, Luxembourg, Belgium and Slovenia, for example. in Germany we pay for the day of your stay, so if your stay in the hospital lasts for a while, then we have to pay the rate times the number of days we were in the hospital. Detailed information is available on the National Health Fund website. If we go to the main page, there's a bookmark: Treatment outside the country. In the International Health Fund Cooperation Department tab, which acts as a liaison body, there is a sub-book on treatment during the holidays, in which these issues are specified, an interactive map and details of the characteristics of the insurance system as regards access to benefits and possibly additional costs in each of these countries are provided. The question was also about the problems Poles are meeting, who are leaving with the EKUZ card. This is a review that was done for the purpose of this question, because the National Health Fund regularly presents statistics to the Administrative Commission for Health. Coordination of the Social Security System with the European Commission. The greatest number of problems due to the scale of our citizens' contacts are encountered in Germany. Here are some examples. German doctors are used to the fact that the German health insurance card has a chip, and our EKUZ card doesn't. There are also language problems. Although there is one card pattern, sometimes the doctor who provides the service does not know about it and there are some problems with providing the service. In any such case, if it turns out that our citizen has encountered irregularities in the health security system in the country in which he was staying, he should report to the National Health Fund. The National Health Fund as a liaison body shall be entitled to enforce the rights deriving from the EHIC Charter. This is not only a matter of financial clearance, but also a matter of both state-level discussions - and state-level discussions - at the level of this administrative committee. I hope it's my answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be satisfying and exhausting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u378	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u379	Minister, I have just one more little remark. It would be useful to draw the attention of workers to the fact that, at the moment when this card is drawn up and when a citizen receives it from the National Health Fund, they will inform you of what you have said, namely that information about the detailed rules that apply to the system and what is contained in a given package in a given country can be found on the website. I do not know, even here it could be suggested that the National Health Fund, by handing out this card, simply give a small download where such information can be obtained, because very often you get this card, but the citizen is convinced that when going to another country within the European Union, these health benefits which he will receive there will be similar to what is in Poland. Turns out he has to pay a small fee there and he's surprised. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's just that our citizens just don't know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u380	Thank you very much. You might want to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u381	The National Health Fund and the workers are trying to do this, but this is the task of a large system, so it is likely that the lady or the person who came to the Member has just met with a staff who has not provided such information. I accept this remark, and I will talk to the president about it, so that he can draw the attention of the workers who work in this area again, so that they do so. [[To inform. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u382	Thank you very much. We move on to the next question, which will be asked by Members Maria Małgorzata Janyska and Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform, on the information of the Ministry and the prosecutor's investigation into the collection of data from the PESEL database - to the Minister for Digitisation. The question is asked by Mrs Margaret Janyska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u383	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Your Marshal's question has already been asked here. I wanted to ask the Minister about the fact that in August there was such a great amount of information noise and therefore there was a sense of danger among many Poles, namely that there was a media leak indicating that personal data was probably leaked from the PESEL database. At that time, unfortunately, there was no information from the government, from the Ministry, at the same time there was also information from the prosecutors that such an investigation was initiated on the failure of bailiffs to comply with the obligation to download data from the PESEL database. At the same time, information has also been provided from the prosecutor's side that the results of the analysis justify the suspicion of unauthorized collection and use of personal data. According to information on 12 August, the referral to the prosecutor's office was made by the Ministry, but only on 2 September, information appeared on the Ministry's website, but this information also did not calm the Poles, because it was reported that there was probably no leak, but it was a download by authorized persons, but at the same time it was not known whether it was a crime or not. Therefore, Poles later drew information from the media on how to behave in order to protect themselves from possible abuses against them, e.g. in the form of borrowing into their account, as all data were publicly available. I have questions about that. Is the information which the Ministry took and on the basis of which the request was made to [[♪ The bell ♪]] The D.A.'s office, they were so reliable, their analysis was so reliable that it could be done? Was there such a concern, or was there a high probability that it was a leak, not a data download? Why was the public not also informed about how to behave at this time? It is important for the responsible authority to inform that security is greater.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u384	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u385	Can the Minister say today whether it was actually authorised to download data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u386	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Minister of Digitization, Ms Anna Streżyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to provide a comprehensive picture of this situation, it is necessary to go back to 2015 when the Supreme Audit Chamber in its report pointed out that for many years no necessary actions have been carried out in the field of ICT security of Poland and Polish ICT systems, especially those of government. It was stressed that there were no organisational structures, no coordination of cyber security issues and no response procedures, therefore, when I took over the position of Minister of Digitalisation, and according to the Departmental Cybersecurity Act belongs to the Minister of Digitalisation, we started such activities immediately, especially since on 1 January the Minister of Digitalization took over from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration the System of State Registers, full competence, and this system includes a register of PESEL, a register of personal evidence, a register of civil status and supervision of the CEPiK system - four powerful national systems which are the core of the system, not sufficiently well protected. In the front row, of course. We have built structures in the Ministry, but we have also immediately established a security post at the Central Information Technology Centre, which is under the responsibility of the Minister for Digitalization, and it is the one operating the System of State Records. Then work was started on a cybersecurity strategy, a national cybersecurity law, because there are still no procedures and no legal bases to know how to respond, how to perform tasks, how to protect the public interest and the interests of individual citizens, without also affecting the interests of other stakeholders. As part of the 500+ programme, we have rehearsed an effective shield for the protection of applicants by electronic means. Finally, we have created the National Cyber Security Center, which has consolidated, but it has already been July, the efforts of many sectors, including banking, telecommunications and critical infrastructures, and bodies such as the Cyber Security Police. Thus the legal basis for the organizational functioning of the whole system was established and then the services simply began to function. At that time, my services detected such unusual data collection characteristics from the PESEL database. The suspicions of these experts raised: firstly, a significant number of questions, secondly, the nighttimes of downloading these data, thirdly, the activity of these several chamber firms outside the standard working hours. On August 12, when we were sure that it wasn't a temporary incident or a technical disturbance, we informed the police about the case, and she turned it over to the D.A.'s office. The prosecution runs it with the involvement of the Internal Security Agency, it's run by a prosecutor with an IT background who specializes in cybersecurity. We remain in constant contact with law enforcement authorities if necessary to provide all information. According to the Communication of 29 August 2016, which I would like to emphasise strongly, no leakage of data from the PESEL system to unauthorised persons has been detected at this stage. At the same time, we coordinate key institutions to address threats to citizens' property interests. We organized a meeting of the General Data Protection Officer, representatives of the Minister of Justice, the National Chambers Council and the Union of Polish Banks to establish procedures to protect and set alerts around the potential possibility of any economic and financial violations. There's no such thing until today. We have, of course, established a list of further actions and methods of coordination. The Ministry's speech to the prosecutor's office was the only possible response to the unusual actions of parts of chambers of commerce in the opinion of the administrator of the PESEL registry. On the other hand, when you look at the question made by your Members, it seems that such formal actions on the part of the MC, which we have not disclosed, are a cause of concern for the citizens, which, in my view, is an unreasonable reversal of the meaning of the measures taken. We must respond and the ministry, acting at the prosecutor's office and without causing any publicity for this incident, acted in the interests of the citizens, allowing the prosecution to take appropriate action calmly. To answer this question, I would like to stress this very strongly: the actions I have described show that one of the fundamental weaknesses of the state has been overcome: the weakness in the area of cybersecurity as indicated in the NIK report. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To sum up all of these findings, it must be said that the data of citizens are safe, no one has stolen them, no use for borrowing. Access to the PESEL database is limited to specific authorised entities through separate Internet links. The bailiffs are on the list of these eligible entities. There is no leak or breach of security mechanisms, because the data was downloaded on the basis of important permissions. It is clear exactly where the questions came from and who they were specifically concerned, while how these data are used by bailiffs is the subject of prosecution proceedings. My office is also affected by citizens' requests...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u388	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u389	...to provide information on how data from the PESEL database was used for individual citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u390	Thank you very much, Minister. Do you still... Thank you, Minister. Is there anything else you'd like to add?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u391	No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u392	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz and Mrs Halina Szydłoko, the Law and Justice Club, on the scale of current road investments - to the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rzońc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u393	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to ask the Minister, if possible, to answer a very important question related to the state of road infrastructure in Poland. We are all discussing, of course, the big highways, the big bypasses, the great communication events designed to be carried out or executed, and I would like to ask the Minister such a short question: What are the prospects for the development of roads managed by municipal, district and voivodeship authorities in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u394	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, may I answer your question specifically in the second part of my speech, but I would like to take the opportunity to present some information on the scale of road construction in Poland. At the beginning of the national roads, expressways and highways, and then I'll go to local roads if I can. I would like to remind you that the 2014-2023 national road construction programme involves the construction of new sections of motorways and expressways, i.e. 3840 kilometers. The total length of reconstruction of the national roads is 205 km. These are the plans, but as far as the degree of implementation of these intentions is concerned, I inform the High House that the total value of tasks aimed at implementation is PLN 80.8 billion, so we are talking about giant money which already exists in the national economy. The value of the tasks in implementation, i.e. those where physical construction has already begun, where they are ongoing and where we can all watch them and count down the days when they will end and we will be able to use these investments, is PLN 51.4 billion, while the value of the tasks in the tender, i.e. those where tendering procedures have already begun and have not yet ended, has not yet been selected the contractor, is PLN 29.4 billion. So this 30 billion is going to be the next money that's going to enter the economy that's going to drive the economy, but it's going to be the money that's going to build hundreds of kilometers of national roads, express roads. Specifically, in the task settlement, there are 93 tasks with a length of 1329 km, including 63 tasks in construction with a length of 879 km and 30 tasks at the design stage in the contract: design and build with a length of 449 km. They are in the following mode: design and build, which means that really when the realization of these investments starts, when they begin to be physically built in the field, created, depends on those who have won the tenders, on how quickly they finish this stage of design, they will enter the construction stage of the roads, and here we will already have further implementations. The tender includes 63 tasks with a length of 759 km. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the High House about the decisions that have been taken in recent days by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk. New investments, which were directed to the second stage of the tender - i.e. the selected contractors will be made and then they will be realized - are: the A2 motorway from the Lublin junction in Warsaw to the beginning of the bypass of Minsk Mazowiecki; S7 Warsaw - the bypass of Grójca; S17 Warsaw, from the junction Zakręt to the Lubelska junction; S1 Pyrzowice - Costowy, the section Pyrzowice - Podwarpie, the third stage; S3/A6 kężeł Kijewo - kężeł Rzęśnica; the construction of section S10 in the towns of Kobylanka, Morzyczyn and Zieleniawo; the construction of section DK15 in the vicinity of the New City of Lubawski; the construction of the viaduct in Legionów; the construction of section DK15 in the city of Inowroclaw, II stage. The total value of these tasks is PLN 4.1 billion. This is the state of the art when it comes to national roads, express roads and motorways. On the other hand, as far as self-government roads are concerned, that is indeed the problem. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber report, the state of the local roads is unfortunately deteriorating. This year, we spend nearly PLN 1.5 billion from the state budget for modernization, for the construction of local roads. These are three funds: municipal and district roads modernisation fund, the fund for the liquidation of dangerous places, 300 million PLN, and the reserve of the state budget. In total, as I said, this is about PLN 1.5 billion. This amount, so we can calculate, judging by the number of applications that local governments make, is only about half of what local governments are willing to co-finance as part of their capabilities. So at least we would need to support local governments, and that's the other thing, which I think is that if we had achieved expenses supporting local government roads, local governments, it would have to be around PLN 3 billion. Question: "How can we achieve this?" It seems that we should strive to build a local government fund. Self-governments very often express such an opinion that there is no permanent [[♪ The bell ♪]] power sources of local local roads, in addition to the three reserves I mentioned, we should certainly develop a system that will ensure sustainable and more or less stable functioning, stable funding for construction and modernization...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u396	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: ...local roads. Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is... Oh, and... You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] Exactly, I was so surprised because you had Wojciech Skurkiewicz ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u397	Your Marshal, it's late, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u398	But I wanted to give you the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The national road construction programme was adopted by the previous government. The question therefore arises, Minister: Will the Ministry of Infrastructure under the direction of Minister Adamczyk, in close cooperation with you, be subject to this programme of modifications, changes, or will there be other tasks in this programme? That's one thing. Second thing, very important. The predecessors assumed specific tasks to be carried out under this programme. They were probably adopted to height, because if they were to be realized, they would cost twice as much as the Polish state has funds to modernise and build roads until 2023 or 2025. But my question is also related to the concern for road infrastructure, especially in the eastern part of our country. Do you have any special tasks and suggestions in relation to this section? I mean, among other things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by national road No 9, i.e. the nearest connection or the fastest connection of Podkarpacie from the centre of Poland, with the capital. Does this road have a chance to be on the show for the next few years? As well as the national twelve, especially on the episode of Łódź - Piotrków Trybunalski - Radom - Puławy. Can these roads be included in this program in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u400	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, the question is: The fact is that when we started to work and started investigating the state of affairs at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, it turned out that the programme of construction of national roads, in which funding was provided at the level of PLN 107 billion, should actually cost almost PLN 200 billion according to the evaluation of the general management. We've talked about this many times, because this is the starting point we came from. And you could say that it's a good thing, we're shortening this program, we're removing certain items from it, we're saying that we're not going to be doing these roads, one way or the other, and maybe we're going to want to replace those roads that were in the program, the other way. I'll say it like that. Well, we have made a different choice. We decided that in Poland even those roads that were placed in the program, it is not enough to ensure the communication coherence of Poland and to respond to all these challenges regarding the improvement of road infrastructure, which is in Poland. I constantly meet with you and your fellow Members, with voivodships, with representatives of individual communities who speak about their local needs, which most often exceed a local dimension, are simply important for the region, are also important for the entire trans-regional connections or, as you said, are certain arteries that communicate a particular region with the capital or with the rest of Poland. We're here right now, I'd say, at the final stage of this analysis. We will not - once again I am announcing - remove any routes from the programme, but we must really set the order of their implementation, which will take into account the few parameters that we have been talking about - communication coherence, but also support for Eastern Poland, because we promised that this would be one of the priorities of the government. Here we are clearly talking about Via Carpatia as an extremely important communication artery, not only for Poland, but also for others, I may no longer mention individual names of these roads, so as not to miss something, which then causes very serious repercussions. Here's what I'm gonna say. This will all be announced soon, as we have announced, which investments have been directed towards implementation. But I would also like to talk very briefly about the really great work that the Ministry has done at the time, but also the whole environment, because we have established an expert council, which consists of representatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The road construction environment, we are also preparing legislative changes that will help finance road construction, and will also be laws that will help local governments to co-finance roads - national roads, but which primarily serve these local communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u402	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by the Members: Mrs Anna Milczanowska and Mr Michał Dworczyk, the Law and Justice Club, on legislative action aimed at pointing out whether a civil company can be a real estate tax payer and taking other steps to harmonise judicial case law - to the Ministry of Finance. The first question is asked by Anna Milczanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u403	Yes, it will be, Your Marshal, one question. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Under the current legislation, real estate tax taxpayers are natural persons, legal persons, organisational entities, including companies without legal personality. However, interpretation doubts arise as to whether a civil company is an organisational unit capable of being a real estate tax taxpayer. This problem has been the subject of many judgments. As a result, there is a clear distinction between the legal lines of the administrative courts. The courts of southern Poland tend to claim that a civil company is a taxpayer of real estate tax, while the courts of northern Poland present a different position. The Supreme Administrative Court also lacks a firm settlement on this issue. The different case law in this case adversely affects the sense of the rule of law of economic operators in the form of a civil partnership. The fact that a tax authority determines whether a civil company is a taxable person in the case of a particular tax is dependent on a number of tax consequences. The different legal regime therefore has a significant impact on the way entrepreneurs operate in the form of a civil company. The lack of certainty in the application of the law in this area justifies concrete legislative steps to address the identified irregularities and hence this question, which the Marshal wanted to read at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u404	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u405	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 The Act on Local Taxes and Charges is based on natural persons, legal persons, organisational units, including companies without legal personality. The fulfilment of the condition as to the organisational form does not prejudice the status of a real estate tax taxable person, since it is also necessary to demonstrate the legal title of ownership of the property or building mentioned in that provision. Such titles are: ownership, ownership, perpetual use, possession of property of a local government unit or State Treasury. In the context of the above, a civil company is not a real estate tax taxable person as it cannot acquire rights, including property ownership, on its own behalf, as it cannot become a self-owner of real estate, a permanent owner of land or a owner of property of a local government unit or State Treasury. For the purposes of the Civil Code, a civil company is a contractual obligation in which the partners undertake to provide a common economic objective in accordance with Article. 860 Civil Code. A civil company is therefore a contract rather than a separate legal entity. The Supreme Court identified the civil company as a multilateral obligation relationship between the shareholders. The lack of legal personality of a civil company under the Act on Taxation and Local Charges is therefore due to its essence in the civil process. Consequently, the status of a taxable person is deprived of civil companies, including in the field of personal income tax. The civilistic concept of a civil company whose rights and obligations are governed by its partners justifies that they are taxable persons for property tax, due on immovable property or construction works brought into that company. It should be pointed out that, according to the views of the judicature, the property transferred to a civil partnership becomes the common property of the shareholders. This is a specific form of joint ownership of all partners. The ownership of the property is therefore subject to joint ownership by the members of the civil partnership. Co-owners in joint ownership, e.g. the plot, land, may be only partners of a civil partnership - persons with legal personality, not the contract of those persons concerning the joint economic activity, the contract of a civil partnership. On the other hand, when a partner makes a contribution to the company in the form of the use of immovable property, without at the same time giving up its ownership rights, the property tax obligation is on that partner alone, since the property does not enter the company's assets. This view of the non-compliance of a civil company with real estate tax and of the subject-matter of the real estate tax on the shareholders of these companies is supported by a large part of the latest administrative court rulings issued in 2013.2016. That's why we think this division is maybe less geographical and more chronological, in connection with the analysis of these judgments, as you also mentioned. The position of the Ministry of Finance in the present case was similar and has not changed. However, in some judgments, mainly issued before 2013, a different view is presented and a civil company is considered to be a real estate tax taxpayer. In view of the above, the Minister of Finance, within the framework of the powers conferred by the Tax Order, seeks to ensure uniform application of tax law by tax authorities and tax authorities, intends to issue a general interpretation in the near future concerning the application of the provisions of the Law on local taxes and charges in the context of the subject of property tax on members of civil companies. However, under the authority of the Minister, it is not possible to influence the case law of the courts and to harmonise it. So that I think that this question will also contribute in a positive way to making interpretation more unambiguous and more reliable for all concerned. I think the general interpretation will be published in a very short time. We'll try to do it as soon as possible. Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u406	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question is asked by Aleksander Mrówczyński, Jan Kilian and Paweł Lisiecki, the Law and Justice Club, on milk prices - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The question is asked by Mr Aleksander Anczynski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 2016 is the next year when milk prices fall. According to GUS, the milk purchase price in June 2016 amounted to almost PLN 100 per hl and was lower by 9,4%. than in June 2015. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is a fall in the price of buying milk.]] The Pomeranian Voivodeship is a place where milk producers receive one of the lowest prices for their product on a national scale. The lowest prices in June 2016 also concerned Łódź and Świętokrzyskie voivodships. Over recent years, milk producers have made a lot of money to make their production modern and their products healthy and able to compete on global markets. Currently, in many cases there are great problems in paying off commitments, thanks to which Polish dairy industry is one of the most modern in the world. Therefore, questions arise. Firstly, what measures did the Ministry do to increase the cost-effectiveness of milk production? Secondly, has expenditure on the promotion of milk and milk products been increased? Thirdly, are work being carried out towards the levelling of milk prices in Poland? The last question is very important and stems from my visit to one of the villages. I saw different milk prices at the producer's, say, small and large producer's. It's about the unit price. Why is this happening? Why are milk prices so radically varied? It was a few months ago. It was the cost of 70 gr for 1 l, and at the producer, which produced several times more, over 1 PLN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u408	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Jacek Bogucki, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the question asked by the Member, I would like to say that unfortunately our assessment as yet opposition has proved to be true, that the release of milk quota is the worst thing that could happen to Polish and European milk producers. We called on the then government, the then president, the then Prime Minister, to look very clearly for all methods of negotiation, pressure on the European Commission, so that this would not happen, to seek an agreement that would solve this problem. Unfortunately, it happened that neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Government at that time, a few years ago, took action in this regard to convince European Union partners that this was a wrong decision. This was also imposed on the Russian embargo, and the demand for agricultural products on the Chinese market and on other world markets fell. The Ministry of Agriculture has taken decisive action in the European Union since it was led by Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel since the beginning, because the milk market is regulated at EU level, like most European markets, all agricultural markets. These were decisive actions, we have sought partners in the European Union who will support the Polish position that both Polish and European dairy need support. Already in November, the first speech of the Minister for Agriculture in this area took place in the European Union. Then, at each meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, at each meeting of EU committees dealing with agricultural issues, Poland requested that this information be considered about the situation on the milk market and that action be taken in this respect. Contrary to what the opposition often says, according to which we cannot negotiate with EU partners, unlike our predecessors, we have managed to build a majority for this solution. We built support among the largest countries of the European Union, at the initiative of Poland there was an agreement between Poland, Germany and France. We have come up with a compromise that does not solve all the problems in the milk market, but allows Polish farmers to benefit from those forms of support that have been proposed in the near future. In fact, the only significant big idea of Poland, which did not receive support, is export subsidies. We believe that it will be difficult to stabilise this market without removing surplus milk from the European market. These actions translate into specific money that will be available in the coming days, and this week the European Commission will publish relevant documents. Of course, we have also not neglected national measures, because we have allocated half of the amount that was available in the last year's package to support milk producers, the second half of which was then allocated, in a very difficult price period, to pig producers, and we have doubled this amount. We are also constantly trying to ensure that as much as possible of the European money allocated to the promotion of milk goes to Poland. Thus, out of EUR 14.2 million, EUR 1.9 million is spent on a campaign programme on the Chinese market, which is also the future market, and the world's largest market. Also an additional €30 million for promotional programmes for, among others, the milk sector was the result of Polish applications for additional support, additional measures. In the next year's budget, too, we would like to plan a much higher amount of money to promote milk for the school's milk programme, so that a glass of milk is available every day for every willing student. We also take steps to develop a coherent promotion strategy so as to move away from promoting the activities of individuals or even parties to promote what has happened in the past, Polish food. As to the response to the question of milk price compensation and why these prices vary, this is due to a number of reasons, but for the first time during the current government, the current management of the Ministry of Agriculture [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have directed the control to those entities that have lowered prices significantly, and the first results of such controls in the Warmia-Mazury region are already there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u410	Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: After the checks, prices have almost doubled. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Thank you. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the dramatic situation in Polish agriculture caused by the fall in the prices of agri-food products and the spread of the ASF virus, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will be discussed at the present meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, representatives of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal motion, Madam President.]] You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u411	Thank you very much. My dear Miss Marshal! High Izbo! This is undoubtedly a granda, what is happening at this point. We are discussing the point concerning the dramatic situation of Polish agriculture, the threat of African swine fever for the whole of Poland, the threat of the production and sale of pigs, is a threat to the export of Polish agriculture. We have farmers from the municipality of Łaziska in the district of Opole Lubelskie from the Lublin Voivodeship, [[Applause]] They've been waiting hours for this debate... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and Minister Jurgiel is gone. This is a shoe and disrespect for Polish agriculture. Appointment of this debate at 3 p.m. 1 a.m. shows how you treat the Polish village... [[No respect.]] ...and Polish farmers. Before the elections every day from dawn to night in the countryside, after the elections at hours. 1 a.m. debate in the Polish Parliament without the participation of the Minister of Agriculture. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I ask for a five-minute break and an invitation to Minister Jurgiel's room to look into the eyes of the farmers present in the Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u412	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, believe that the time to consider these points is late, but this was taken into account in the time that the Convention adopted. We're actually late for over an hour. On the other hand, who represents the government at the meeting of the Sejm, neither does the Sejm decide it, only the President of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister appointed Minister Bogucki to answer these questions. I fully share your position, but... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Thank you very much.]] ...let's take advantage of the fact that we're in this room, that there are guests and let's proceed with this point. I therefore ask you to speak with the representative of the applicants of Mr John Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u413	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm very sorry, Minister, but we're gonna spoil your well-being a little bit, which you just presented here. The economic situation of Polish farmers is bad, it is terrible. There is no longer any direction of agricultural production that is cost-effective, and any area of agricultural production we will examine, a tragic picture emerges. As long as I have enough time, because as your marshal just said, I have five minutes to ask questions, I'm going to ask you about a few areas of agricultural production, and I'm going to start with... Exactly, in the gallery, as you said, there are farmers, orchards from the Łaziska commune, Opole Lubelskie district. And they were led here by determination and only hope for help, support. What I have in my hand, in front of the High House, these pictures, I will give to the Minister. These are pictures of fruit, specifically apples, from this very community. And the event that took place in this area on 9 August this year. In the form of a hailstorm, it has produced such results. Despite many requests, letters, monits, no one, literally no one, from government representatives, has bothered to learn about the situation, to assess the losses and to offer real help to farmers. Minister! The Bear Sadders, as they signed in the e-mail, sent me a quote from your election newspaper "Polish land," a year ago, quote: "In a crisis situation, when prices fall rapidly, the government's actions are late, and farmers are being told that the Minister of Agriculture is waiting for the position of the European Commission, which, as usual, needs time and consultation to make a decision. And the fruit rots. Is this a normal situation? That's what you're asking in this newsletter, in this election flyer. So, Minister? It's been a year, the industrial apples 17 and 19 gr. Is that-- I'm gonna ask you the same question you asked last year. - is normal? If we add the tragic price of cherries, under 1 zł, or black currant, below 0.5 zł, I will repeat this question: Is this normal? Let's just touch it, because there is no time for it, another highly uncertain area of agricultural production, pork production. ASF is already present in three voivodships: Podlaskie, Mazowieckie and Lubelskie. As if there were few outbreaks of disease spread, dead and ill art are not disposed of on the spot, but are transported by almost half of Poland. Minister, where did rational thinking go? The plants that have been selected for disposal are nearly 400 km away from the outbreaks of the disease. This is how the natural barrier on the Vistula Vistula was breached, I repeat: the natural barrier on the Vistula Vistula. Transport over such long distances threatens to spread ASF to further areas. It should be borne in mind that the lack of effective action against ASF will result in losses not only for pigmeat producers. Importers from other countries will probably also give up Polish poultry, beef and veal as a precaution. It should be said openly: we demand immediate intervention by the government and the Minister for Agriculture. Minister, in a nutshell, the milk market that you have been talking about here is beautifully developing years ago. Just a few months ago a litre of milk PLN 1.7, now 70 gr - not as you put it. What proposals will you make to milk producers? The production of cereals - rye prices 400 zł, wheat at least 120 zł cheaper than last year and information about the flooding country of Ukrainian cereals. Does the government analyze and monitor this influx? Detailed question: Why was buying in Zamość stopped in the indirectly owned cereal plants? This happened immediately after the person who led the horse stud in Janów to the brink of a fall took over the board. Yeah, it's the same manager who runs the grain factory in Zamość today. After touching, that's what I called it, these few areas of the economy only raise questions. I will put a few of them: Why wasn't intervention bought in by the Material Reserve Agency: milk, butter and other products, if you could buy coal in mines? Is a Polish farmer less important than a Polish miner? What is your plan for aid to Polish farmers whose production has become inefficient due to low prices? Why are there no minimum prices for agricultural products? Well, basically, the minimum prices introduced the market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you promised minimal guarantees. Why are there no disposal of ASF infected pig flocks in their zones? Why is there not an adequate financial reserve in the national budget for crises in agriculture, for rapid and effective financing of interventions with the possibility of transferring unused funds for subsequent years? I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u414	Mr President, time is coming to an end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u415	I'm almost done. ...this is the amendment we tabled in the course of the work on the state budget. Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for coming here and listening to this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Minister, would you like to take these photos?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u416	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! All you had to do was ask your club friend, former agricultural minister, and you'd find out everything you asked. [[Applause]] You'd find out why it's so... [[Ten months!]] ...difficulty situation in Polish agriculture. Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel recently informed you very closely about the situation in agriculture, what this is and what the government of Law and Justice is doing and taking, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Ministry of Agriculture under the direction of Minister Jurgiel to remedy this situation. I was a teacher for a few years - except that I was a farmer - and I know there are students who sometimes need to be repeated a few times to make them understand. And that's what I understand. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Please do not insult the farmers.]] I'm talking to you, farmers understand that for a long time. [[Voice from the hall: You speak to the farmers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u418	But you can't insult anyone at all, ladies and gentlemen, so please, respectfully. [[Mr. Minister, you're going to be explaining...]] I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Your Marshal, please allow me to speak. That's why I'm asking for peace, and I'm asking you not to say unpleasant and untrue things to each other. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Minister Krzysztof Jurgel called for cooperation in building a programme for improving agricultural markets in Poland, developing agricultural markets in Poland. Unfortunately, you prefer foaming, you prefer political riots, and this is the result of treating the Polish village, exposing the city to the countryside, propaganda of the successes that were constantly mentioned, about these beautiful tractors, about those money coming from the Union - this is the result of 8 years of your policy. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Even more than 8 years, because during these 27 years of changes in Poland you participated in almost every coalition and destroyed Polish companies from the agricultural environment, destroyed by the wild privatisation of SHiUZs, meat plants, Polish sugar factories, the entire Polish agri-food industry, [[Applause]] the whole surroundings of agriculture. It can't be rebuilt in a few weeks or a few months, it takes years to rebuild. It takes years, but these the effects are already visible. [[Where?]] They are visible every step of the way, see this Polish village. You'll never see them, because you don't want to see them. [[Not you, not you.]] When other countries, our neighbours, introduced regulations on food labelling, in Poland it was said that it was not allowed to do so. They introduced Slovakia, Slovenia, France, Italy, Austria. When money was sent to Poland for fruit and vegetables, 7.6 billion, the largest money ever made available to any agricultural sector, was spent in such a way that no basis was created for the operation of this sector from start to finish, i.e. from production through processing to trade, but it was spent in such a way that the European Commission had abandoned Poland to spend this money in an uneconomic and perhaps even criminal way. Of these 7.6 billion, almost 1 billion are already due back, and this is the result of the audits carried out during your time and the decisions made by the European Commission in your day. Because 1 m2 of storage space could cost more than 1 m2 of the apartment in Marshalkowska when you spend your money. These are facts. Instead of actually helping farmers, the country was built: in the villages of the State of PSL, in the city of the State of the Civic Platform. It's years. spoiling the environment of agriculture. [[Bullshit!]] The plagues came to Poland: drought, dreams, hail, storms. It's not affected by anyone. There's only one being in the world. World prices falling in all markets, Russian embargo, ASF, milk penalties, for which you did not lift a finger to prevent this from happening. [[The world crisis was still there.]] In the case of ASF, it was also in your time that combs were removed, the rendering plants were privatized so that the state had no instrument to force the bet to buy what had to be disposed of. There is no such country in Europe where everything about agriculture, its entire surroundings, has been sold, most often into foreign hands. [[It's a lie.]] Nobody sells seed companies, no one sells livestock companies. In Poland, you did it. [[You're selling the stables.]] And our actions are intended to increase advances for Polish farmers. After you were spent 1300 million, we increased it in 2 weeks, because that's how much time we had, another 1300 million, another one. You've only been able to raise 1,300 million for eight years. [[Genius.]] We increased the refund of excise duty after years when you couldn't touch it. [[Voice from the room: How much money?]] For the pig subsidies, which at the time, in your time was the cheapest, how we took over after you, pigs in Poland were the cheapest, we paid 120 million PLN to Polish farmers. [[There won't be any soon.]] Everyone has been given a decent amount to compensate for the losses that have already been incurred for your governments. [[Not everyone.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying, lying.]] [[Voice from the room: Same for every child.]] When it comes to social assistance, we have compared it to the city, so that the Polish farmer, the Polish child, is treated just like the child from the city. You introduced a system in which the subsidies were differentiated. [[You're not communism.]] This year we managed to get 75% of the advances. possible means to be spent. Polish farmers will receive them again this year. 4.5-fold increase in agricultural insurance payments for next year. Stability is needed in each agricultural market. I am aware of the difficult situation of Polish farmers. We were the only ones who realized it and realized it. We're not talking about their beautiful tractors, we're just familiar with agriculture, you know how to privatize and take over state-owned companies. [[You know a lot about yourself. Since this morning.]] Indeed, this regulated world market, this regulated European market requires enormous support, and as a result of the actions of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Krzysztof Jurgiel, has managed to bring about a situation where this market is simply stabilized step by step, including with the support of EU funds. And for milk, and for the fight against ASF, we can get and we will get measures that are sufficient and that will help Polish farmers. But when a man who calls himself a village representative, who has also been in the Sejm for so many years and even in the government, says that he can buy intervention by the Material Reserve Agency, he just doesn't know what he's talking about. [[And the coal?]] If he says that minimum prices can be introduced in Europe, he doesn't know what he's talking about. [[Who said that?]] [[Minister Jurgiel spoke.]] If he says there's no disposal of pig flocks, he doesn't know what he's talking about because he's moving. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Only where?]] If he says that there are no financial provisions in the state budget for emergencies, I assure you that such reserves are, but they were not in your time. You spent money that wasn't in the budget, borrowing the state twice in your eight years. This is a difficult situation for the Polish village, it is a difficult situation for Poland. But we're just gonna make it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Twenty-five people signed up for the vote. Anyone else want to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u419	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, These voices, which fell from the jury of the Polish People's Party, would suggest that this problem, the difficult problem of the Polish village, appeared suddenly. But we are aware that these problems have existed for many years. They not only concern the municipality mentioned above, but also apply to many other areas. The Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship is a part of our country where fruit production is the primary source of livelihood for many families. During my meetings with the sadists, they paid attention to very low prices for buying cherries, blackcurrants, and lately industrial apples. Indeed, the prices of these fruits, e.g. 50, 60 gr for 1 kg of cherries, 40 gr for 1 kg of black currant or 20 gr for 1 kg of industrial apples do not even provide a minimum cost-effectiveness of production. This led to the fact that, for example, Many cherry growers have decided not to pick fruit. In conversations with farmers, there were voices about the factory dictatorship and even about price conspiracy. There were arguments that many processing plants were sold to foreign companies in the 1990s, which were not interested in partnering with Polish producers. I would like to ask the Minister to answer the question: What measures are planned by the Ministry of Agriculture to improve the situation of Polish fruit producers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u420	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Let me just... [[Member Dorota Sunday plays alarm clock sound from the phone]] I don't know if you can hear it - it's a bell. It's called an alarm clock. [[What the bell is, everyone can see.]] This is the alarm clock of our time, the alarm clock I am giving to Minister Jurgiel. Minister, it's really time to wake up. And I'm very sorry, farmers. About an hour ago. 8 a.m. we're talking in this Seym about the difficult situation that has arisen. I'm just gonna talk about ASF because this is about today. And from time to time. 8 a.m. we hear from Minister Bogucki, who, in my opinion, in such a difficult situation... In every European country, the prime minister appears in the event of such rapid rapid progress in the emergence of the virus. I understand that the Prime Minister has trusted the Minister of Agriculture, but it is not the Minister of Agriculture, it is the Minister who comes and tells everyone that the reason lies in the last term. And the truth is, fourteen. Minister, you've been explaining to us all morning that this is our fault, and that's when the 19th bonfire was diagnosed. As you explained at the committee meeting in Forest Podlaski, another 19th ASF outbreak was diagnosed. I suppose it could be 20 by tomorrow, and you're still saying nothing's going on. I ask: Where is Minister Jurgiel? I ask: Where will he give us the answer to what he foretold? Today we got some really funny law in this situation, while he announced that it would be a complete act. On August 31st, you announced at the conference that you have a specialized package that changes six laws. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that will help you fight the ASF. We got a scrapbook today, and the Minister explains that this is a matter. Once again, I call for an end to sleep and we call on Minister Jurgiel to this room - out of respect for the farmers who have been here since noon. They want an answer in this Seym in the morning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u423	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The night is to sleep. Who said that? Who said that? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Kasprzak.]] [[Minister Jurgiel.]] Minister Jurgiel in Brussels when it came to settling agricultural matters. And the farmers are here to sit all night and wait for the minister to answer them. The minister said it's night to sleep. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very sad and difficult situation. Today there is no Minister of Agriculture, but I would like to say that before the southern debate, when Minister Bogucki called for cooperation in combating the effects of African swine fever, we understood it, it came to us as one husband in this Chamber voted. You were talking in a different voice then. What's right now? Right now, a shoe, a shoe and a shoe. This can't be right. [[Arrogance.]] You can't accept that. [[Applause]] Minister, you have also said such words that it may be necessary to stop the breeding of pigs in Poland completely. And that sounded very dangerous, Minister, that sounded very dangerous. Today, Minister Jurgiel on the radio says that we have wheat of 700 PLN in Poland. Question, Minister. Tell Minister Jurgiel, your colleague, to send these merchants to the Podkarpata, to buy 700 zlotys of wheat, because it's 480, 500 each. [[Applause]] Did you hear what your boss said today? After 700 PLN there is wheat in Poland. Program 500+. Half the kids didn't get 500+. [[Just my parents.]] In the country. And there come to me farmers, villagers, those who have one child or two children, one older, by a month more than [[♪ The bell ♪]] 18 years old. And they don't. Half the rural children didn't get it, poor children, just from poor families.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u424	I ask for a point, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u425	Minister, a little reconnaissance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Olszówka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's really late. Minister, a very brief question for you. As far as the cereal market is concerned, I would like to ask about this instability that has been going on for several years. Is this also the result of the fact that at the moment we import more cereals than we export? Does that have anything to do with it? How can farmers possibly be helped to make this cereal price higher? The second question concerns tomato producers. Right now we're after the tomato harvest. It's only sold 30%. the whole production, so my question is: What to do with the rest and how to help these farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u428	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u429	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you scared me. You scared me, and I'm scared. As a matter of fact... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...I'm an envoy who doesn't get paid, and I'm not interested in positions. I came here to create a new law, sell my experience, and it turns out, Minister, today we talked about ASF that you have no laws, you make them on your knees. You know, Minister, we're 19. Help today, as already mentioned, the 19th ASF bonfire? That's 25 billion at least if it gets through the Vistula. If we don't have a setup, we're gonna have massive losses. I'm scared of the piss. You scared me today because you want to cover all your actions with politics, that you're this, you're that. That's not what this is about. Minister, what I'm saying is that you can't use phones and make laws to implement them. You have to go physically and watch... [[Stop the virus.]] ...how they're done. That's not there. I have a question for you: Will there be specific subsidies for farmers who want to apply prevention, who are out of the zone? If they are, how much? Specific answers. There are no answers. You didn't answer that. Nonstopping the plague, Minister, you know well, will cause the pig population in Poland not to be rebuilt. Unrebuilt. Do you know that today, despite the cost-effectiveness of pig production, farmers do not decide to resume pig production because they feel fear? What kind of fear? That you are an incredible force that says otherwise and does otherwise. Because how do you treat the fact that a few weeks ago we had three, and today we have 19? That means you're functioning inconsistently. You can't, I repeat, function and gain credibility by creating laws that don't work. As in the army, an order issued must be a proven command. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you can't, I repeat once again, this is how you function. And my horror is precisely that I'm afraid as a farmer that your assurances...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u430	I ask you to finish your questions, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u431	...will cause many families in Wielkopolska and Poland to fail, the state budget will break...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u432	Thank you very much, sir. Member Zbigniew Ajchler: I don't know what kind of zenith she's gonna get. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. I would very much like to ask you not to exceed these two minutes, because we have to respect each other. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u433	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear farmers gathered at the gallery! It's a shame you're not here for Minister Jurgiel. Minister, a good change for farmers is not so good. The reduction in the retirement age announced by the PiS will actually increase the retirement age for farmers. The reform promoted by the PiS eliminates the so-called reform. partial pensions, which in the previous term won the Polish People's Party. Minister Jurgiel! Why did you sleep? I'm asking the Minister. It's a shame he's not here. Why didn't you make sure that hardworking farmers could keep partial pensions? I ask you, Minister Jurgel, did you like the cutlet you gave me... [[He's not here.]] My friend will pass it on. Did you enjoy the cutlet given by young folks? Remember the taste of Polish pork well. [[Applause]] I have another question. What effects are you talking about in the Polish village? 'Cause I don't see the effects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u434	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The decline in agricultural fetus prices started more than 2 years ago, and many factors contributed to this decline, among others. export decline. [[That's not true.]] It is known that there is overproduction of food in the European Union, among others. cereals, but not only in the European Union, but also in its immediate surroundings, for Russia and Ukraine. In such a situation, export of agricultural foetuses has a significant impact on price developments. Unfortunately, our country has not been prepared to compete in exports outside the European Union. Unfortunately, previous governments have not taken care of e.g. to ensure that our ports are equipped with adequate infrastructure for fast loading of agricultural foetuses, their transport to destinations. Because it is not enough just to produce food, you have to make sure it is delivered quickly to those who order it. Unfortunately, for the negligence. It is the fault of previous governments, because it cannot be fixed in a few months. We are losing here to many countries of the European Union. Minister, we have recently heard that, due to the weather conditions in France, wheat production has fallen. Is there, therefore, a market gap? In this connection, does the Ministry have any conversations related to the increase in Polish cereals export account? And second question. Recently, we have been informed that the Ministry of Agriculture of Egypt has reported the restoration of strict quality requirements which had previously been suspended, consisting of zero-tolerance malt in imported wheat. As you know, Egypt is an important market for wheat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Ministry of Agriculture hold or intend to hold any talks, negotiations with the Egyptian side, in order to possibly allow the export of our cereals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u436	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Lidia Gądek. There isn't. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u437	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Farmers! Dear Minister, At the harvest ceremony at Jasna Góra, Minister Jurgiel called on farmers to comply with phytosanitary regulations. Minister, such an appeal should be addressed primarily to your collaborators and the services of your subordinates. Hence my question, which I ask on behalf of Kujawsko-Pomorskie farmers: Why pigs infected with African swine fever in Podlasie were transported to Jesuit Struga in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship as well as to Śmiłow in Wielkopolska voivodship? The Minister probably knows perfectly well that in these two voivodships breeding is 40% population. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for now - and I stress these words - both voivodships are free from this disease. Question two: Under what conditions were these animals transported? How much did it cost? After all, these animals were carried meaninglessly several hundred kilometers away. Question three: What would happen if there was a car accident where a car carrying animals would have been damaged if there had been a leak? The next question is: Who made such a nonchalant decision and why? It is a clear diversion and creating huge threats for breeders in these voivodships. Did the Minister draw the consequences of those who made such an irresponsible decision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u438	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PSL sympathizers! Winston Churchill's words would like to be paraphrased, that so few have never done so much in such a short time for Polish agriculture and the protection of Polish land as the Government of Law and Justice. [[Not many?]] There's harvest time, summary time, harvest time. I drive a lot, talk a lot to farmers, villagers. In addition to the actions we have taken so far, they are asking further important questions and asking for further important solutions for rural areas. Minister, do you intend to give farmers the opportunity to sell their food products directly to consumers? Do you intend to introduce solutions to eliminate pathologies in the concentration and trade of agricultural products? It is common for intermediaries to cheat farmers by lowering prices and not even paying for concentrated products. Do you intend to introduce the principle of equal treatment of food producers through commercial networks? Do you intend to introduce a coherent system of aid favourable to farmers affected by disasters and state support in an insurance scheme that farmers are unable to pay themselves? Do you intend to restore regulatory mechanisms on the milk market, to counteract the fall in pig production, to reduce imports of pigmeat, to protect the cereals market so that, for example, it is impossible. place, how is this happening at the moment, duty-free quotas of Ukrainian grain, and finally lead to the recovery of the Polish market for Polish food?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u440	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When I listened to the Minister, I was very sorry, because in my previous term I had the opportunity to listen to you repeatedly, and I see that your argument has not changed at all, even though you are responsible for agriculture at the moment. [[Applause]] Not only do you insult Members, but you also disregard farmers. And I think it's worth a serious thought. Yet, in the election campaign, PiS had a very optimistic future for farmers. Didn't you know the situation on the world markets? There was talk of guaranteed minimum prices, attention to the cost-effectiveness of agricultural production, higher subsidies for farmers. Unfortunately, none of this was realized. Little, the situation in agriculture has deteriorated dramatically. Prices of cereals and other foetuses are very low, below cost-effectiveness. Minister Jurgiel wasted the whole year, just slept through instead of helping farmers. Only now has he woken up and in a letter to farmers, which was read at harvest festivals, he announces that he intends to address the European Union on minimum prices. After all, it has been known from the beginning that we need to talk to the European Union on this issue. You had to waste a whole year to understand that. How long does it take to fix this? That loss can't be undone in a short time. I have a question: Why is Minister Jurgiel working so slow? When will he fulfill his promises to the farmers? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u442	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party. There's no envoy. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Urszula Pasławska, PSL. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz: Mr Gadowski.]] More Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u443	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You can't do it, Minister. It's already the 19th bonfire, as the Minister has heard. Not an idea, not a way to solve it. On behalf of Members, and especially Mrs Bożena Kaminska, who cannot attend the debate at this time, I wanted to ask the Minister a question. From Monday 5 September, the entire area of the Podlaskie voivodship was declared a zone threatened by African swine fever. This means - the Minister knows very well - that any marketing of pigs will be prohibited and that movements of animals will only be possible for slaughter, once approved by veterinary services. I wanted to ask the Minister: What kind of help can farmers expect from the government, and do you also see any chance of receiving this aid from the European Union to mitigate the effects of this virus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u444	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u445	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Farmers! Today we have heard two speeches on the agricultural situation: earlier Minister Jurgiel, at the moment the Deputy Minister. I would like to ask a question on behalf of the farmers in Warmia and Mazury who are very concerned about the well-being of the ministers, because the prices you point out have no real coverage, are unrealistic and untrue. The prices for cereals, the low yields, and I think that also the prices for milk, which the Minister recommended today, are simply false. A year ago milk was paid from PLN 1,70 to PLN 2, and today there is no farmer in Warmia and Mazury who receives more than 1.10. I don't know if you know, but there are also areas where milk is paid 36 and 40 gr. These are amounts below any cost-effectiveness. Therefore, my question is: What measures do you want to take to protect farmers who are threatened with bankruptcy? The next questions are about the promises from the election campaign one year ago. You promised to compensate for EU subsidies - today we do not hear about it - and guarantee the so-called. minimum prices or guaranteed prices. We also expect an answer to this question. And one last question about ASF. You are suggesting that meat that comes from the land [[♪ The bell ♪]] at risk, canned products were produced. Question: "Who do you want to feed this meat?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u446	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Aleksander Forczyński, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz. He's not here either. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When I listened to the Minister, I came to the conclusion that we may be living in two different realities. As far as bets are concerned, PMB Białystok... You will be asked by the PiS candidate, Mrs Jelska, who has persuaded the Minister to place the presidents and bankrupt them. And when it comes to sugar in the Grabs, you have to remember, too, for whose government it was. [[Applause]] Six days before the election. You have to tell the truth. You misled the priests and the deans in the Paws until Baashka was a little bit straightened up. [[Applause]] Imagine: modern tractors, modern machines, modern farms. Meaning what? You're gonna bring this down? Is it wrong that we have such mechanized agriculture? Let's just enjoy this. At today's meeting, the minister mentioned that there are good prices for milk, pork, all the way to China, almost 11 zlotys, fruits are at a good price. I wanted to ask you a few questions, but when I heard the minister's speech today a few hours ago that it was so good, I didn't ask any questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u448	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Krupka, the Law and Justice Club. Is there a Member? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: There isn't one.]] There isn't. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz. I don't see him either. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the last few years there has been a decline in cereal prices, also this year, which is caused inter alia. that in most cases the quality of the cereals harvested is low due to adverse weather conditions. Another point is that imports of cereals from Ukraine of 1600 000 have been allowed into the European market. t. Neighborhood with Ukraine, and therefore low transport costs, will cause all this quantity to reach the Polish market, while farmers fear that due to the leakage of grain borders it can hit even more. I have questions about that. Has the Ministry taken action to save the situation on the cereals market and prevent further price falls? What are the actions or actions to be taken in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u450	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stanisław Żmijan. There isn't. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We know that we still need to look for new markets for grain. It is also known that these markets need to be sought further and further. However, it is not enough to find a willing person for our grain, but it is still necessary to transport this grain. Between 2005 and 2007, the idea was to build a state cereal port in Poland. Then this idea was abandoned by the next power. Isn't that a good idea to get back to? Are there any discussions between the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on this subject? Do you have any other idea of adapting our ports to grain handling? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u452	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Leszek Korzeniowski, the Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice. Absent. Therefore, Mrs Anna Krupka. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Farmers! In my Świętokrzyskie voivodship there are areas where most inhabitants live from fruit production: cherries, black currants, industrial apples. The prices of the latter are currently 20 gr per kg. Processing plants are catastrophic and without any basis reduce the buying-in price of apples. Hence my question. Minister, what solutions are you planning to implement to improve the situation in Polish sadism? I also gathered repeated conclusions from my meetings with the Sadists, and I would like to ask you a few questions. Are you considering introducing ad hoc intervention instruments, which, through the relevant actors, for example: through the established price stabilisation fund, would lead to intervention for the complete withdrawal of goods from the market, but through them further distribution, but the complete withdrawal of apples from the food market, or would they provide for subsidies for fruit growers to buy apples or other fruit in the event that the price falls below the set level? Whether you are considering introducing customs barriers to markets outside the European Union or introducing subsidies for the export of apples from outside the European Union or the obligation for processing establishments to contract directly from farmers, i.e. multi-annual contractual prices in accordance with Article. 168 Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u454	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask the representative of the applicants of Mr John Łopata to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u455	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When in the discussion before the holidays on the land law - so in short its name - in response to the clashes of this side of the seym hall, I told and diagnosed that PiS had just begun to retreat from the Polish village, you smiled and I only confirmed that after your speech today. I just didn't think it would be going so fast. And it won't help those nightly or nightly discussions, because information about your speech today, about this response, and basically about the lack of response, will reach the interested ones. [[Arrogance.]] Why do I think that? Minister, you have not properly answered any question I have asked, none, and in particular you have not answered the farmers here, and yet these countries have not come here hundreds of kilometers, because of their prosperity, because they are well, but I think they wanted at least words of support, or perhaps ideas to resolve their situation. After all, the country from the municipality of Łaziska and the surrounding municipalities lost an annual income. Do you understand that? It's a year's worth of income. And as they told me today, apple trees, stunned by this hailstorm, bloomed, so you understand that next year there will be no harvest. And what did they hear from you? Nothing, nothing. It's really unworthy of the minister, it's offensive to the people who came here. What are they supposed to get back together with, what are they supposed to tell their neighbors? Just focus, because you're gonna have five or 10 more minutes of regular time, focus on the answers to these questions for those countries that are sitting here in this room, because the problem is really important. I hope that at least hail is unpolitical to you. Maybe you won't assign the hail to us, to the PSL, or to the previous coalition. You're trying to throw everything away on our governments. To be honest, I didn't write down all the charges against us, because at some point my hands fell off, but on those few that I was able to write down, maybe I'll try to answer you. You have accused us of a fundamental mistake or action: setting up a city in the country. Minister, we really are not to compete with the leaders of this sharing policy. Not us, really. [[Applause]] Look around in your environment. I don't think there's an area of life or an area of economy in which you wouldn't break up society. How can you make such an accusation? Polish sugar factories, liquidation. Mr Baszko, the marshal, told you about the sugar factory in the Grabs. I can tell you that the entire sugar system in Poland, precisely because it has a tendency to sleep at night, Minister Jurgiel failed a few years ago. [[Applause]] A few years can't be done, and the Polish village sees these effects. The price of oil - we raised. Minister, with all due respect, 5 gr. Do you know that diesel in Poland is one of the most expensive in this part of Europe? In the world markets, it's falling. Weirdly Polish companies or Polish oil merchants keep their oil prices quite high. Abolition of the milk limit You're assigning us. Do you know what year it was decided to close the limits? In 2007 the Commission Do you want me to remind you who was in charge at the time? Don't nod your head, because it's true. In general, Minister, really, you might want to hit your ankle on the way over. You're not. Already in opposition, you are Deputy Minister of Government. Minister Jurgiel couldn't, he's supposed to be on... [[At the movies.]] At the movies, yeah. Therefore, you will have to take it upon yourself. And there were also questions or allegations of non-export. Well, my dears, Polish agriculture, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This area of the economy is at the forefront. From 5 billion exports to 26 and last year exports increased by 7 billion. Why this allegation of lack of opportunity or export skills? Once again, Minister, we really didn't expect such an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u456	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u457	Such a naughty answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u458	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Maybe I'll start by answering your questions. I already answered you once, Minister Jurgiel also told you about it, but you need to repeat it three times, maybe ten times, maybe eventually, because Polish farmers understand it. If there are Polish farmers here, not PSL activists, then they know that in agriculture work at night is not... [[Are we still insulting? Are we still insulting?]] ...to the farmer with a novelty. I haven't slept through a lot of nights, stopped queues with sugar beets in Paws. [[We're sorry for your loss.]] If anyone says again that in 2008 law and justice ruled... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Seventh!]] ...when the sugar factory in the Paws was closed down, I'm gonna sue him. [[Applause]] Or I'm gonna refer you to a psychiatrist because it's gonna have to be treated... [[You're welcome.]] ...if you have these blackouts. After eight years of your reign, nine years since, eight years since he no longer ruled the PiS... [[Focus on the gardeners, on the gardeners.]] ... You blamed us for everything that was bad in agriculture, so I'm telling you what the facts are. [[Voice from the O.R.: We don't blame you.]] Between 2005 and 2007, agricultural prices increased by 30%. [[For the future, Minister, we ask for the future.]] After eight years of your government, they dropped by 50%. Now we're starting to rebuild what you've destroyed, rebuild every market. The price of pigs since November how much did it increase? [[Worry if you'll be producing tomorrow.]] 30%. The price of milk is already rising, stabilizing and starting to grow. Each of these markets will be regulated, only as I said... [[She's up because she's not here.]] ...after 8 years of destroying Polish agriculture, it takes a little longer than 8 months. [[Lie!]] [[Answer the questions, Minister, to the questions.]] I'm answering. Among the measures in terms of aid to farmers affected by the hail - we changed the rules because they did so only when the losses exceeded 70% in all crops... [[Who's "they"?]] ...all over the farm, you could help. Now it will be possible to provide this assistance [[Applause]] and we will provide this assistance to all farmers whose losses have exceeded this level in the crop concerned. The aid scheme for the restoration of production is about to start on those farms affected by the misfortune of hailing. Force majeure and we need to help Polish farmers in this situation. Next year there will be a full insurance system, 4.5 times more insurance. It will mark the Polish product, which is used by our neighbours from many countries, you did not allow it, you preferred to promote foreign capital. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] The promotion fund will be directed where farmers recognize the objectives of supporting Polish products. These are projects that are already in the Sejm, a law on countering the exploitation of contract advantages, on unfair competition. You didn't care, either, that in Poland trade networks use Polish farmer, Polish entrepreneur. You didn't care for it for eight years. It'll be solved. [[But do it, do it.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: We will help.]] Special solutions in the field of ASF - today the government has adopted a law - will come to the next meeting, next solutions... [[What?]] ...which you also missed not for 8 years, but for 3 years of ASF madness in Poland. [[Three years...]] Loans and loans to farmers who have fallen into a difficult situation. You couldn't afford it either, but you directed the loans to your land-buyers. [[You've redirected.]] Did you know that farmers, probably connected with PSL, could benefit from an aid line where 70,000 could be earned. for the purchase of land, even with the purchase of a father made by his son, and only those who were close to power knew about it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] [[The voice in the room: Did you say anything about a doctor?]] Only 900...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u460	I'm asking you to calm down. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Less than $1,000. farmers have received such aid. It was a directing aid. There was no time to pass a law on farmers' cooperatives. Now she will be. There was no time to introduce direct sales by farmers. There's a bill, there's a bill. [[He's here.]] I've already replaced agricultural insurance. The regulation of every agricultural market, the agricultural income stabilisation fund - you couldn't do that either. There's gonna be a fund, the bill's already been consulted. These are the actions you do not want to hear about, Mr, because you have already soaked enough with this PSL that you have stopped seeing the Polish village, you have stopped seeing the Polish farmer. [[Applause]] [[My wife likes PSL.]] I've worked a lot in my life, two jobs - as a farmer and as a teacher. [[Like all of us. Martyrology.]] I went to these lines, I stood for hours, and at night I plowed my land. I can respect the farmer's efforts, and Minister Jurgiel can respect him, who works several hours a day, and you're trying to accuse him of laziness. You? [[But you can't escape the facts.]] But I'm asking for peace in the courtroom at all. [[Voice from the courtroom: But don't shout, Marshal, calm down.]] I'm asking for peace on both sides. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Prices of cereals in Poland are dictated by the European market. After all, it was in your time that this quota was released from Ukraine. [[He, he, he.]] However, the level of Polish grain exports is four times higher than the level of imports. When it comes to tomatoes, unfortunately, the price is low because there are no solutions that will allow farmers to have a strong position. We introduce an obligation to conclude contracts at every level. This obligation will not affect the farmer, he is to touch every entrepreneur. Each trader must conclude a contract with the farmer. And you couldn't afford to do that either. And it's not an attempt to bounce the ball, I'm talking about what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing on purpose or out of stupidity, for money or stupidity, what you're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're [[Ladies and gentlemen.]] After all, if we're talking about pensions, look at the bill you voted on. If you were still in charge, in 2017, a Polish farmer would have to work until 67 years of age or less. That's what it says in the bill you voted out. [[55 years old - female, 60 years old - male.]] This transition period ended according to your bill next year and there was no next one. [[What do you mean it wasn't?]] It wasn't, it wasn't. Let me see. If not, we meet in court, sir. Enough of this, enough of this PSL lying to the Polish village. [[Applause]] We opened up 17 export markets, you couldn't open them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Jesus.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where did the billions I was talking about come from?]] The disposal... Please calm down, it's late. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Billions of cigarette exports that are produced from non-Polish tobacco - this is also your achievement. [[Tobacco, tobacco...]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, please calm down.]] As for ASF, because you keep coming back to him, there was no way to bury these animals in this area, because in your day the combs were being destroyed. There was no way of rendering the bets in those areas because you sold those bets for dog money to a stranger, private capital. [[It's a lie. You don't know how to act.]] Indeed, milk prices have already fallen to tens of pennies in some regions in your time. [[2 zł.]] Where they were the lowest for the first time, you couldn't afford it. To cooperatives often directed by your activists, where your activists are presidents, to companies that are connected with you by the origin of the owners of these companies, their ZSL-ovsk political past, to these companies we sent checks and then the price immediately increased twice, immediately after the control. Such checks will be repeated because farmers cannot be cheated on fat, on protein content. And that's what happened when it comes to the price of milk. Agriculture is an area that requires special support, special understanding. You have to be a farmer, you have to follow the plow, you have to work on the ground, also repeatedly at night to understand that agricultural problems can also be discussed after midnight, at any time of the day and that you cannot send police to the Polish farmer. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Jesus...]] After all, it was your minister, your officers sent the police to protest the farmers. They were punished until the Law and Justice took over. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This period of happiness for the Polish village is over. [[Oh, you, you...]] As responsible for the situation on agricultural markets in Polish agriculture, I am able to guarantee, as responsible for finance in the Ministry of Agriculture, that there is a chance that there is hope here, there are measures, there are opportunities, full cooperation with the European Commission in helping the Polish village has been undertaken. The situation has changed, but the results, like in the countryside, just have to wait. It takes months from planting to harvesting. It often takes a year for rape or winters to ripen. And as this year passes, these effects will be even more visible. There will be visible effects in the form of billings, budget entries... We're getting close to the end of the speech, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: ...and what will allow Polish farmers to sleep safely. Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Fortunately, the PO-PSL coalition has passed away forever. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[And there'll be diggings, Minister, you'll have diggings.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Minister Kosiniak-Kamish made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u461	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's terrible what you say, Minister. [[Horrible.]] You asked for medical attention, so I'm gonna try to give it to her right now... [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion!]] ...though diagnosis isn't easy to make. [[Applause]] I think she's got you under control, and you're not alone... [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion!]] ...in your party, you've mastered your hate sickness-- your hatred of everything before you, your hatred of... [[Voice from the room: But this is not a formal conclusion.]] ...the second man, disrespect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u462	Allow me, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u463	There will be a formal conclusion at the end. For now, there's a reason, because it takes some time for a diagnosis to write a prescription. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Yes...]] You had great recipes for Polish agriculture in times of opposition... [[Voice from the room: But seriously...]] ...but you can't implement them. There were supposed to be minimum prices. Now you're saying you can't introduce minimum prices, intervention. No, coal heaps can be bought, and pork, butter and cheese cannot be bought. [[Applause]] This disease of yours... I'm actually wondering what you would have done, Minister, what would you have said to farmers at meetings if there wasn't a PSL. You guys wouldn't have anything to say. Because that's what it's like to blame PSL. [[Applause]] [[Yes.]] Give a mass and thank God it's PSL, because you have at least someone to drop on all the time and to tell these bullshit stories. There really wasn't a hint of aggression on the part of Mr. Boat when he asked you questions. There's an ASF problem and it's a very serious problem. [[Of course.]] There were three outbreaks maintained for 2 years 15 km from the border with Belarus. The last few weeks are another bonfires coming to Warsaw. [[Nineteen.]] You're transporting infected pigs across the border, the natural barrier of the Vistula. [[An open car.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal request...]] You heard your colleagues asking questions. They were worried. This isn't the polemic that was two, three or four months ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't answer their questions today either. Formal conclusion, Your Marshal - a recess and a request for the Minister to cool down, calm down, take care of agriculture and see that you are already in charge and not in opposition. No more saying you're in the opposition, the language of the opposition, how you've been in charge for months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u464	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I cannot implement this formal proposal, Minister. I don't have the power to announce such a break. With another formal proposal by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. I hope this is the last formal conclusion today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u465	Minister! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister focused so much on lying to reality that he didn't answer any of my questions. That is why I ask the Minister to answer my questions in writing, because these questions were raised by farmers from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region and out of respect for them, Minister, instead of making senseless accusations of PSL, these specific questions had to be answered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is the interpellation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u466	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Thank you.]] On this we exhausted the agenda of the 24th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members still like to make a declaration? If you don't... [[Me too.]] You're welcome. I'm gonna need you to sign in. I'll close the list then. Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice, makes his first parliamentary statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In one person: one of the most recognizable faces and one of the most serious leaders of the Civic Platform, with her devoted without a doubt to the bard, Zbigniew Ajchler, today at the session of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgiel, for - and here a faithful quote from Mr Ajchler - uncompactability, chaoticism and standing farmers with a hand in the potty. Thank you kindly. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u468	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club. [[The Member made me laugh, and I need to cool off.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On September 24, 1976, he died in Opole Franciszek Jop, an auxiliary Sandomieric bishop, a capitulary vicar of the Archdiocese of Krakow, and finally a diocesan bishop of Opole. He quickly gained respect on the new Bishopship, separating the Church from politics in difficult times of the Polish People's Republic. When he was warned that a big chandelier in the curia might be hidden in a wiretap, he replied that he was not a conspirator and that there was nothing to hide, and if it helped the authorities, he was willing to put his desk on the market and serve there. The Titus Bishop of Opole was appointed unsuccessfully for the first time in 1951. Finally, the nomination decree was handed to Fr. Jop on Jasna Góra on 1 December 1956, even though he had defended himself to the end before taking over this bishopry. However, the Bishop quickly came to his senses. Jop both secular and clergymen. The Bishop was always open to talking to ordinary people, although at the end of his life he couldn't hear. In time it became a kind of legend in Opole that it never ended such a meeting first. Before he came to Opole, he had a Krakow episode. In 1952, the communists removed archbishops from the metropolitan area. Baziak and his auxiliary bishop, Rosponda, planing to replace them with one of their collaborators with the so-called regime. Patriot priests. Then the Krakow Chapter at the request of the cardinals. Stefan Wyszyński chose Franciszek Jop. The bishop in Krakow made contact with Fr. Boleslaw the Fireplace. In 1954, after the arrest of Primate Wyszyński, it was decided to secretly ordain the Fireplace as a bishop. One of the three consectors in Przemyśl has just been appointed Francis Jopa. He cared about matters of the Opole diocese. He reactivated the Holy Cross Publishing House. In a short time, he sent about 20 priests to specialized studies so that they could teach a growing number of candidates for the seminary. He took part in the celebrations of the 1000th anniversary of Poland's baptism not only in his diocese, but also in 21 others. It was a prelude to the establishment of the Opole diocese. A specific paradox was that the Polish church administration in Opole had been operating since 1945, but the diocese could not be established without a peace treaty and recognition of the border between Poland and Germany. The Cyrankiewicz-Brandt Agreement was signed in December 1970, but was finally ratified in 1972. Opole became the capital of the diocese on 28 June 1972. Then Bishop Jop mentioned in his sermon that he had been ordained in Sandomierz at the hands of John Lorek of Blazejovice near Toszek. Bishop Lorka God sent from Silesia to Sandomierz, and me from Sandomierz to Opole," he said. In 1975, Francis Jop got kidney disease, followed by three strokes. He died on 24 September 1976. Just after his death in the Polish Episcopate, the idea of starting the beatification process, which unfortunately was abandoned, appeared. Perhaps it would be worth returning to him. However, this is a matter for the church authorities. On the other hand, I declare that on the 40th anniversary of the Bishop's death, I will apply to the Council of the City of Opole and the President to give one of the streets in Opole the name of Francis Jop. Perhaps the enlargement of Opole and administrative reorganisation will be a good opportunity for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u470	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? [[Yes, I am.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u471	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to raise a very important problem concerning the employment of temporary workers throughout the country. The rules governing the employment of temporary workers by the employer who is a temporary employment agency are governed by the Act of 9 July 2003 on the employment of temporary workers. In the law, in the article. 20 point 1 shall be entered in the following entry: "In a period of 36 consecutive months, the temporary employment agency employing a temporary worker may direct that worker to perform temporary work for one user employer for a period not exceeding 18 months in total.' In practice, this provision remains only on paper, since an employee who has worked for 18 months is employed by another employment agency, although he continues to provide services in the same workplace. On the example of the Gliwice sub-zone of the Katowice Special Economic Zone, I can say that hundreds, or maybe even thousands of people work for a long time, are employed by labour agencies waiting for employment by a company which they ultimately provide their services. For those employed by the employment agency, this situation leads to a lack of job security, and among women there is even a fear of becoming pregnant, as it can contribute to the loss of employment. In addition, temporary workers do not fully exercise the rights of the Labour Code. The idea, which accompanied the development of the labour agency, was to activate the unemployed, but in time thousands of people all over Poland work on temporary contracts for very long years. In view of this situation, my statement to the High House would like to draw attention to the existing problem and ask for any action to be taken to make such changes in order to put an end to the exploitation of workers mentioned by me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u472	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u473	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, on the calendar cards, we saw the date of September 3rd. This date, September 3rd, for the people of my city, Hawk-Zdrój, is of special importance. It was then that in 1980 in the mine of the Manifesto of July - today the movement of Zofiówka - the historical settlement of Jastrzębski was signed. This is the third agreement, after Szczecin and Gdansk, which has been permanently incorporated into the history not only of Jastrzębie-Zdrój, but also of the whole Poland. During the night of 27th to 28th August in the mine the Manifesto of July began a strike of miners solidarityizing with workers from Szczecin and Gdańsk. The miners also added a few of their own to the 21 postulates of the coastal workers. On 29 August, seven more mines joined and was bound, for the first time in Silesia, an inter-company strike committee. Soon in the region 28 mines and other workplaces were struck by a strike like miners from Manifesto in July. On the same day, a government delegation arrived at the miners. The negotiations have begun. September 2 approx. hour 17 further negotiations were undertaken, which ended on 3 September at 3 p.m. 5.40. The finale of these difficult talks was undoubtedly a success. After a dozen hours, a 29 - year agreement was finally signed. This historic compromise gave thousands of workers a chance for better working conditions and was the basis for creating a free democratic state. A large proportion of the demands were made on social issues for workers. Free Saturdays and Sundays, voluntary work on statutory holidays, the establishment of independent trade unions, the inclusion of pylica lungs in occupational diseases - these are just a few of the demands that created new, better working conditions. Today, 36 years after these events of August 1980, we must remember both all protesters and those who fought for freedom and solidarity, both then and throughout the communist repression. When the word "solidarity" was formed in the 1980s, no one thought about what it would mean in 20, 30 and 40 years. Now we can safely say that it is an expression of struggle, pride, unity and community. It's a word that contains a specific content and a story that we can't forget. Today we must ensure that it continues to generate positive energy, dreams and, above all, the Polish pride to continue to combine. Solidarity is the heritage of all Poles. There are no more or less privileged in this regard. Some people forget that today. With this special history in mind, the authorities of the town of Jastrzębie-Zdrój took the idea of creating a Solidarity House, a place to commemorate what is important. This event is a milestone of Polish democracy. At the moment, a number of measures are being taken to put this good idea into practice. There was a project to develop a place where all the activities undertaken in themselves will be the dissemination of the latest history and the memory of the events of the 1980s. The Solidarity House is to become a place of integration and agreement between the various social groups, promoting relations and cooperation. Today, returning to these special moments of history for Silesia and the whole country, I would like to ask you to lean on this initiative, join in spreading this idea and helping the city to implement this important investment for Jastrzebie-Zdroj. I particularly refer these words to the Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who has been in Jastrzębie several times, to the government for financial support for the implementation of this project. At this point I would like to remind you that in 2015 this project was written by the Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz as one of the priorities of the programme for Silesia, Silesia 2.0. I believe that the Solidarity House in Hawk-Zdrój will become a place over-local, socially active not only in our city, in the region, but also in the whole country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u474	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Vacations are passing, and now Poland - according to the defenders of democracy, a totalitarian country, which probably leaves behind in this respect dozens such as North Korea or Cuba - is entering the next stage. An underground state is to be created to transfer the values of the Democratic Defence Committee through the time of oppression. After the stage of street demonstrations, whose regime, unfortunately, did not want to pacify - sneaky some kind of regime, he probably felt sorry for the money for coercion measures, because he had so much allocated to programs for people of type 500+ to keep his totalitarian system - time for stage two, going underground. Personally, even though I am formally part of the regime, I understand this step and I think it is necessary to do everything possible to put the password into practice and to take the form of mass. A long time ago, a serious Polish cabaret suggested that the PiS regime was worse than the Islamic State. More and more serious judicial environments indicate that the current governing system must be fought by all means. You have to hurry, but some people have concerns about what it's going to be in the fall. The Underground State must have its ideology and leader. This one can only be one. And I don't think there's a competitor. After all, many times he announced a civil war at which he would stand, and he is an optimist. That must be the chief: either they surrender or they jump out of the windows. The State must have its spokesperson. This one must be goldy and unique. There is a good candidate, convinced of the idea of fighting the regime, the one who calls his homeland the bread of the Church and believes that the country turns into a Catholic-fascist militia. But one way or another, this whole country has to rely on its soldiers. These shouldn't be hard. They rested away from the regime in the Bahamas, the Nazur Coast or Thailand. It's time to build structures and prepare safe houses. The headquarters must be in Warsaw. If there's anything I can advise you to do, you have to be careful that the president of the city doesn't reprivatise this accommodation by stealing it. It would threaten to deconspiracy and media bluff. Defenders of democracy, do your work! Only in you hope that you will give reason to re-activate the union of freedom fighters and democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u476	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u477	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Listeners on the radio! Bridesmaids and Bridesmaids and Parents of Scouts Youth! I was specially prepared for this evening because I wanted to re-enact myself in a scout uniform, say a few words about you, bridesmaids and bridesmaids from different scout organizations, but also to your parents. This year's summer scouting vacation has actually become a time of intense scouting and instructoring service. It's because of your bravery and your commitment, among others. In World Youth Days, scouting organizations have set up nearly 2,000 people for various services. There were 1,200 scouts and scouts in the Boy Scout Service itself. I looked at you with great satisfaction and pride, whether in Czestochowa, Kraków or Oświęcim. And I know, also from the reports of the superiors of the state services, that you were perfect, that you did not give in to state services, skills, or an excellent organization, but you surpassed them with determination and commitment. But from this observation there is something else, namely a state that I can boldly describe as the birth of bravery and responsibility. You young people, barely over 18 years of age, especially in HOPR, but also younger in other services, stood in the first natural instinct of the call: service, and you went to take it. You certainly didn't reach the limits of your imaginations to the probability of the effort and the pain you've become. And even though it's been hard, sometimes hopelessly hard, because the heat and the crowd, sometimes the rain and the watch that went on forever, you did it. I would therefore like to say to your mothers and fathers: you can be proud of your children, that they have given an example of a strong spirit, inner discipline and awareness that this service is for real. At the same time, I would like to ask you, parents, because I am curious how and whether you have given a message to those returning from the service of your children that you appreciate what they have done, that you know or want to know how much it cost them, that you may have enjoyed hearing the assessments from the President, the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Home Affairs concerning their professionalism. If you didn't make it, nothing was lost. Climb into your own kid's team's fundraiser to sum up the summer action, or scream together, you adults, and ask them to tell them what this SDM experience means to them today. You know, I wandered around in the summer after various trainings, courses, camps, I met young men and young women who, in their grey and green scout uniforms this summer, stood up to the task, tested their organizational performance, also checked what it means to serve God, their homeland and their neighbor. And I would like to end by saying that I'm just proud to be one of you. The bridesmaids and bridesmaids for the next year of scouting service - all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u478	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Do you know what a da Vinci robot is? This is such a state-of-the-art surgical device, using which in neighbouring countries, e.g. in Germany or in the Czech Republic, operations are carried out, in particular urological operations, i.e. for prostate, bladder, kidney or gynaecological cancer. Czechs have nine such robots, so in every hospital where urological operations are performed. They are carried out under the social security system, so the Czech citizens do not have to pay for such an operation. Besides, it's standard there. In Poland we also buy robots. In 2010 the R &amp; D centre in the Wrocław hospital purchased a robot from the Polish Science and Technology Fund in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, and this year such a robot was purchased by the municipal hospital in Toruń from funds received as a result of the 2015 competition by the National Centre for Research and Development also in the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Robots were purchased to carry out scientific research. Treatment operations are not done. The National Health Fund does not finance such operations. The Health Technology Assessment and Tarification Agency issued three negative recommendations in 2014, as robotic operations are too expensive and do not increase the availability of treatment and improve the effectiveness of therapy, which I do not agree with. In a hospital in Wroclaw within 5 years, a robot will do Vinci has done a little more than 200 different types of operations as part of the study. And in Czech or German hospitals, they are made about 300 quarterly. The robot doesn't get tired. The teams of surgeons exchange because you're tired. The robot arm won't shake, and the surgeon's arm can. On the screen, the internal organs can be seen in a tenfold magnification. Man's eye isn't that precise. After prostatectomy, the patient is only in hospital for four days. The catheter is removed after 8 days. The investigation into full efficiency is much faster. Urine retention returns within about 1.5 months, up to 2 months, and after a traditional surgery even after more than a year. In more than 98% Robot surgery has no complications, and in the case of young men who have been diagnosed and operated on prostate cancer, sexual functions are also preserved, which is not provided by traditional surgery. I've got a friend who's two years old after a traditional surgery. He's not holding his urine, and he's going to have another surgery. However, the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarifications does not take into account further costs of treatment as a result of many complications, sanatorium treatment, absenteeism at work. However, I hope that this will soon change that robotic surgery will be available as part of patient health services, that they will be included in the evaluation of not only the costs of surgery, but also the costs of all treatment, including treatment of complications, and rehabilitation, because today we are in the field of availability of robotic surgery 100 years back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u480	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u481	Statement on the 70th anniversary of Felix Selmanowicz's death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! August 28th this year The 70th anniversary of Felix Selmanovich's death was over. Zagoń. I would therefore like to say a few words about the life of this enchanted soldier. Felix Selmanowicz was born on June 6, 1904 in Vilnius. His early youth fell during World War I and the struggle for independence. As a volunteer, he and his brother took part in the Polish-Bolshevik war. For the next few years he was associated with Branch II of the General Staff of the Polish Army. In 1923 he moved to a civilian and worked as an office worker. Feliks Selmanowicz was mobilized again on 25 August 1939. He was then sent to the Border Protection Corps. After the aggression of the Soviet Union against Poland, he took part in the fights against the Red Army. When he crossed the border with Lithuania, he was interned by the authorities of the country. After he escaped from the camp, he returned to Vilnius and made contact with the conspiracy. In early 1944 Selmanowicz went to 3. The Vilnius AK Brigade. Gracian Frog of the Szczerby and then moved to 5. The Vilnius AK Major Brigade. Zygmunt the Szendzielarz of Szupęski. He was a deputy platoon commander there. He quickly got promoted to the rank of lieutenant of wartime. In May 1944 he took command of the company in 4. The Vilnius brigade, lieutenant. Longina Wojciechowskiego, Ronina. After disarming, like other soldiers, he was interned in Kaluga. However, he managed to escape from there, return to Vilnius and, thanks to the help of the underground network, return to Poland. Selmanovich made contact with Major at the turn of 1945 and 1946. Then he took command of his own patrol. From March to June, his branch carried out a series of actions, acquiring cash, which was transferred to the branch of Słupzki. On 17 July 1946 Selmanowicz was arrested because of the Żilinski report. He was captured and imprisoned in Sopot. A month later, after a very violent investigation, Zagoń was sentenced to death. On 28 August, he and Danuta were shot in the basement of the Gdansk prison. Before the shots were fired, they both shouted: Long live Poland! The death sentence was annulled in 1997 by a decision of the Provincial Court in Gdansk. Eight years later, IPN reported the likely location of the remains of Felix Selmanowicz. The ceremonial funeral of Zagoń was held on 28 August this year. In the grave next to him was Danuta Sidzikówna.Inka. President Andrzej Duda issued a decree to appoint Felix Selmanovich as Lieutenant Colonel. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-05-sejm-24-1.u482	This concludes the 24th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 25th session of the Sejm, convened on 13 and 14 September 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 2 min 21]]
