ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Marcin Duszka and Katarzyna Osos. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Małgorzata Golińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Katarzyna Osos. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies jointly with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and with the Committee on Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Legal notice - hour. 11.30, - Foreign Affairs together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 14, - Senior policy - h.m. 14, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad - h. 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 6:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Spa - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for the New Constitution - at 10 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: The Challenges of Democracy of the 21st century - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: regulation of the pharmaceutical market - h. 15, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u3	Thank you very much. High Sejm, I inform you that a Member of the 6th term of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Jan Religa, has died. Tonight's his funeral. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you. Formal applications. Members have come forward. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 shall be formally requested to postpone the sitting of the Sejm by one week, pending the completion by the applicants of the missing legal opinions and the submission of three complementary laws on the status of the Constitutional Tribunal. The project to be put into session was submitted to the marshal's staff five days ago. There is no legal opinion of the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council. No public consultation was carried out. Moreover, you propose that the status of the Constitutional Tribunal should be governed by three laws. You're putting one up. The principles of legislative technique clearly state that such three laws should be dealt with at the same time. Let me remind you that we are discussing one of the most important laws of the state concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. How many more gag laws do you want to file with the Constitutional Court? That's another legal bullshit. This law duplicates the provisions of another law, this law again wants to introduce three illegally elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. You want to shorten the term of office of the magistrates again. It's not even funny anymore, it's just pathetic. It's a recidivism. You think we're gonna stop fighting for the rule of law and the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Voice from the room: No.]] We're not gonna stop. [[Applause]] You better start thinking about the State Court for people who break the constitution because that's what's gonna happen to you. I guarantee it. [[Moving in the hall, applause, ringing bell]] Each day brings us the knowledge why you need the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal: also so that the Constitutional Tribunal cannot regard as an unconstitutional anti-abortion law, which in this form is supported by the club Law and Justice, a law which violates the fundamental rights of a woman, including the right to life, fundamental civil rights. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u5	Thank you, Member. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, near the European Democrats, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Mr. Marshal, calm the room down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I would go a little bit in the same direction as the Member in which I would just slightly change the basis to Article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (5). The point is not to vote at all on this point... [[Two weeks.]] ...just go straight to the agenda without voting. I have the same justification here, just to add two more points. Namely, there is such a very nice record that for participating in public debates, the judge is charged with 10 Consorts are being deprived of the status of judge, but, ladies and gentlemen, that's not enough. Why all the piS minimalism, why all the gentleness? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, good idea.]] I propose arrest, gentlemen, arrest - it's a simple matter - and it's not a house arrest. My colleague Protasiewicz, with mildness to the right young people, offered house arrest, but I'm moving on, ladies and gentlemen. This arrest can be relaxed, give you a longer walk, [[Applause]] Give me an extra pea pea. But in general, it's about the judges of Zoll, Safjan... [[The voice from the room: The combo from the mirabelle.]] [[The voice from the hall: And the caviar.]] ... Rzepliński in the future, Stępień, so those judges could not appear in the media, so that mostly Mr. D.A. Piotrowicz would perform, [[Applause]] Excellent, by the way, [[Applause]] well-deserved oppositionist and national hero, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And so that your intellectual... with proper precision and clarity of mind would be shared by President Terlecki, a person so distinguished and so well deserved. Lately, he's a little lost in his life-protecting considerations, but it happens. In short, Mr. Marshal, I propose not to vote on this point, but to move straight to the agenda. Thank you so much for not interrupting me. I'll never forget that. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u7	There you go. I take the Member's voice as a vote against it, because that is indeed the case. So we have a vote in favour and a vote against, practically speaking. Well, that's very interesting. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[I don't think you understand the marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I may not, unlike my predecessors, raise the emotional level in this room because that's not the point. The seriousness of the Sejm requires us to focus on creating a good law. [[Applause]] There will be no good law when we do it on our knees. And once again, we have this bill. It was announced a few days ago, there is no possibility to discuss this, even the possibility of discussing it within individual clubs. For example, we should not discuss all of this. I therefore make a formal proposal, regardless of the legislative errors that are included in this draft law, e.g. repeating the rules in it twice so that, however, we can focus on real work and not discuss it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u9	There you go. In fact, it can be said that this is one formal request for a deferral. I would just like to inform you that, from a formal point of view, under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, work on a draft law of this type, which refers to other provisions which are not yet in place, can, but cannot be completed. They can be completed when all projects are discussed by the Sejm. Therefore, from a formal point of view, we are only voting on a request for deferral. Then we will proceed with the voting procedure. I will submit this request, a request for deferral, to the vote. [[It was against it.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering the adjournment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 171 voted against - 241, six Members abstained. The motion was rejected. The group of Members submitted a draft act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The design is 880. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary bill on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print 880, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 239 voted against - 186, 1 member abstained. The motion has been accepted. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. The additional committee report shall be in print No 866-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Buczak to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on National Defence an additional report by the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. This is printing number 841. At its 27th meeting on 4 October, he re-directed the draft law to the National Defence Commission for the purpose of examining the proposal and amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on National Defence, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on 4 October, asks the Sejm to reject the following amendments: the amendment of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club concerning the rejection of the bill - the committee asks that this proposal be rejected - and the proposals of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, which concern the deletion of important points in this draft law. The Commission requests that these proposals be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u11	Please. We will vote first on the proposal for rejection and the amendments which the committee has tabled in its additional report. As we understand it, accepting a motion for rejection will render the remaining proposals irrelevant. Before voting, a motion for rejection shall be submitted to Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u12	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are voting to reject this draft law in its entirety. Law and Justice cut the ulcer on your majesty, like Bartłomiej Misiewicz, but this ulcer spilled. This ulcer is also the draft law, which 90% makes the next Misiewicz you will be able to absolutely... [[Did you hear what happened on the committee yesterday?]] ...without transparent competitions to employ at the main functions, managers, at important positions at the Military Property Agency... [[Your power.]] ...in a multi-billion-dollar asset management agency. High Izbo! This proposal gives you a chance to rehabilitate yourself, giving you a chance to come out of such a disgraceful idea. On the one hand, you let CBA in to see if there was any abuse in the Treasury companies, and on the other hand, under the cover of the night you throw [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a disgraceful project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u13	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u14	I ask you to support the motion to reject the bill in its entirety. [[Applause]] [[On your knees!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u15	Thank you. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. There were no questions, so we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 184 voted against - 231, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 1 of the draft law, the applicant proposes to delete points 3 and 6, 8, 9, 12, 16 and 17. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club. [[Marcus, do you have a relative like that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project contains a number of changes which, of course, exclude the procedure of transparent competitions when selecting people to perform key functions in the positions of the Military Property Agency. But under this veil there is also a change that will allow the free circulation of weapons, ammunition, as well as explosives, which are in the resources of the Military Property Agency, and thousands of Kalashnikov, which will also be withdrawn, because we are arming our soldiers with modern berylliums. I have a question: What guarantees do you give us that these weapons will not be in the wrong hands after the restrictions have been lifted? What guarantees do we have that intermediaries, who will, of course, only fulfil the obligation to license, will not sell or remove these weapons to, I do not know, the Islamic State, not to mention the threat that they will also be in national circulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u17	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. There were 158 votes against and 243 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Before the vote on the draft law as a whole, Members came forward. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u18	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! This is, of course, a bill that compromises the authors. It is worth reminding here today that this bill passed in committee Only because she got support from the Kukiz club15. Mr Paweł Kukiz very often talks about showing him when he helps PiS when he supports PiS. Mr. Pawle, with this compromising bill, you just supported the PiS. If it had not been for your fellow Members, if it had not been for the members of the Kukiz Club15, this law would not have been accepted in the committee. [[Applause]] And then there's the other thing. This bill is embarrassing because you're shutting down procedures. We all know, Minister Macierewicz, that the military is primarily procedures. Without procedures in the army, the life of a soldier is at stake, and you, the state, you, Mr. President Kaczyński, are converting the procedures in the army to the will of a minister to whom the Poles do not trust. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Bravo!]] It has led to the fact that the pharmacist's assistant has the right to drill Polish soldiers. My question to the Minister: Will you remove the procedures in the Army in the next step? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish and Officers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u19	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u20	... will you choose according to your own will? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u21	Thank you, sir. The minister listened. Radosław Lubczyk, a modern club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. You took one step backwards, you pulled Mr. Misiewicz out of public life, but you're going a lot harder on this bill because you're taking two steps forward, which means you want to appoint a few dozen people as directors of the Military Property Agency without competitions. Is it supposed to be that you take one step backwards - good, thanks to us, thanks to the Modern, thanks to actions #Miesiewicze - but you take two steps forward and appoint several dozen more Misiewiczs in the Military Property Agency? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Maybe it's a stupid statement, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u23	Please. Member Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand completely what you're doing. You're throwing us another bill at the Misiewiczs. I mean, you're telling the Platform that your Teddy bears are better, that they had three for one position. That's not true. You're doing exactly the same thing, exactly the same thing. I have a proposition for you. Accept the Kukiz15 anti-sitiv law and your media problems that are throwing mud at you for the Misiewicz people, they will completely end. I personally will not sign this bill... [[Voice from the Chamber: You voted on this bill in committee.]] ...and I'm not gonna push the green button. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u25	Thank you very much, sir. These questions and this matter will be addressed by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to reassure you - the changes that have been made in accordance with the current law have been made in the Military Property Agency and the subordinate institutions and we do not intend to make any major changes. We want to simplify, adapt this procedure to other government agencies and the principles of how the president, the executives of the agencies and their subordinates are elected. I would particularly like to make Members of the European Parliament and Members of Kukiz15 here, but I would also like to make you aware of what the Civic Platform is defending. Mr. Marshal! Those employed in the Military Property Agency are among others.: Mr Stawowy Grzegorz - Councilor of the Civic Platform from Krakow, [[Applause]] July Grzegorz - husband of the messenger PO Katarzyna Matusik-Lipiec employed in the branch in Krakow [[Applause]] Góralczyk Katarzyna - councilwoman of the Polish Republic from Krakow, [[Applause]] Zbigniew Seja - county councilman PO from Wrocław, [[Applause]] Leman Janusz - Vice-President of the PO in Gdańsk, [[Applause]] Nawrocki Maciej - Councilman of the PO in Poznań, [[Applause]] Krystian, a member of the Civic Platform. [[What's this?]] Wyderkiewicz Iwona - activist of the office of the MP PO Jadwiga Zakrzewska. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You've got it wrong, you've got it wrong.]] But it's not over. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, Mr. Marshal, a little more. Listen to me. [[100 times...]] Kamiński Przemysław - Member of the Management Board of the District in Biała Podlaski, currently Deputy President of the City of Biała Podlaska, [[Applause]] Krzysztof Jazowy - Vice-President of the Board of the PO District in Biała Podlaskie, [[Applause]] Bielecki Karol - city councilman Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki from the list of Civic Platforms. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Do they have an education?]] Bartkowska Barbara - assistant to Bogdan Klich, member of Bogdan Klich's political office, [[Applause]] Bielanski Roman - member of the Civic Platform, [[Applause]] Żak Iwona - Councilor of the district of Nowodworski from the list of Civic Platforms. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Jóźwiak-Kurpiewska Magdalena - PO candidate in the elections to the Sejm in the last elections. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Mr Dulian Marcin - Head of the Office of MEP Bogdan Klich, [[Applause]] Hodura Jarosław - Assistant to what Member? Bogdan Klich. [[Applause]] Gąsiorowska Małgorzata - member of the political office of what minister? [[He's a dick.]] Bogdan Klich. [[Applause]] Street Robert - Member of the Management Board of the Cracow Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[But what is it?]] Warchoł Monica - wife of Roman Warchoł, activist of Małopolska PSL. [[Applause]] The division of posts was in line with the rights of the various parties in the coalition. Free Arthur - member of the management board of the district of Krakow PO. [[So, Paul?]] Babuśka Marek - father of Bartłomiej Babuśka, member of the board of Tarnowska PO. [[Bravo!]] Besides, the Babuśków family was quite numerously filled with the Military Property Agency and subordinate companies. [[Applause]] [[That's better.]] Bartkowska Sandra - daughter of Barbara Bartkowska, member of Minister Bogdan's political office... [[He's a dick.]] ... He's a dick. And then the Babuśków family: Babuśka Bartłomiej - Tarnowski alderman, member of the board of Tarnów PO, [[Applause]] Baby Marek, father of Bartholomew Baby. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Bąkowski Tomasz - brother of Jack Bąkowski, President of the Material Reserve Agency during the PO-PSL period. That, ladies and gentlemen, is what you're defending. [[Horrible. Yes, sir!]] I only mentioned a few dozen names. You want to, there could be a lot more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u27	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voices from the hall: Baby girls! Baby girls!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if that's the subject of praising... [[Voice from the room: Okay, well, Mr. Marshal.]] ...or applaud it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft print law No. 866 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 231 against - 177, with 18 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Military Property Agency Act. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 37 hours 9 min 47]] High Izbo, let's resume the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj and Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This is a question about the process of restoring police stations in small towns to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Minister Jarosław Zieliński will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Kryj's question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Ensuring the security of our country's citizens is one of the important goals that the government led by Prime Minister Beata Szydło has set itself. The sense of security has been greatly reduced in many towns, as in recent years numerous police stations and police stations have been eliminated. On 26 September the police station in Chmielnik was reopened in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. Unfortunately, the former precinct was wound up in 2010. The fact of the return of police officers was very well received by both the inhabitants of Chmielnik and local authorities. With this in mind, I ask you to answer the question: How many police stations or police stations were liquidated in the years 2008 to 2015 and how is the process of restoring police stations or police stations in small towns progressing? What will be the next decisions on this matter in the Ministry of Home Affairs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u29	Thank you very much. I understand that I can ask the Minister for an answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Between 2008 and 2015, the PO-PSL coalition, which was then in power, closed down more than half of the stations operating in our country. At the end of 2007, there were 817 of them. When we took power as Law and Justice after the election, we found only 399 police stations, so the 418 were eliminated. We, as Members of the Law and Justice, protested in our previous term of office. But also some Members of the then government coalition disagreed. We didn't agree to keep the police from the citizen. The government didn't listen to this, it wasn't listened to the chief chief at the time, it wasn't listened to by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of the Civic Platform. This was the idea of the police on the phone. It was assumed that if there was an incident, there would be a police call, she would come quickly, react and everything would be fine. We warned against it because the police on the phone didn't work anywhere and we knew it wouldn't work in Poland. It was assumed that there would be financial savings here. We asked him what the title was. The answers were very enigmatic. And these savings turned out to be illusory, and the consequences of this mass liquidation were such that the sense of security of citizens in municipalities, in smaller cities, fell. Police forces have been concentrated mainly in city, county, and exposed, so to speak, to the criminals of smaller towns and people living there. Law and Justice have always believed that we must take care of security equally - that it is necessary that it is the responsibility of the state - residents of all Poland, as large agglomerations as smaller towns. And we announced that when we took power, when we won the election, we would re-enact the police stations. And that's what we're doing right now. Numerous consultations took place in early 2016 across the country. Within three months, from 21 January to 21 April, about 12 thousand consultations were held in Poland. There was a great interest of residents in these meetings, took part in them approx. Twenty-two thousand. citizens. One of the postulates that repeated itself was the demand to re-establish police stations where they were eliminated. We have conducted a very thorough analysis of the case and, as a result of it, using specific criteria, we have established - these are data for today - that 156 stations need to be rebuilt, but this list is obviously not closed. At the same time, it is important to make it clear that we should abolish - we also said that then, I said this in particular as Vice-President of the then Committee on Home Affairs and Administration in the Sejm, and other Members of the Law and Justice said - it is easy, it will be harder to reproduce. And it was said that there was trouble, because objects, especially those that served police stations, were destined for other purposes at that time, otherwise developed, given to someone, sold. They just don't exist. In the first place, So now we're reconstructing stations where there's room capacity. Cooperation with local authorities in this area is very good. Besides, local authorities protested in those years against the liquidation of police stations. Very often. After all, they put money into the operation of these posts, and then someone without consulting them, contrary to their position, took them away, eliminated them. Now, thanks to the cooperation with local governments that helped us prepare our facilities, we have already recreated 18 stations on a national scale in the last weeks, 21 more are ready to reactivate by the end of this year. Another of this list - 156 - will be played in the coming months, perhaps even years, because there are cases where there is no facility at all where the police station could be located. And you may even have to build these objects. In the draft Modernization Act, which was prepared by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration for the years 2017-2020, we provided financial resources for, among other things, the construction of police stations where there is no possibility of developing existing facilities. And this process - therefore - will continue for a longer time. But where, I repeat, once again, there will be room opportunities, we will reactivate these stations faster, in a continuous process this is happening right now. The police provide everything they need to operate the stations. On the other hand - once again I want to emphasize this - local governments, for which we are grateful, help in preparing objects. We want these precincts to work not eight hours, but much longer, preferably 24 hours a day. And that is what we are going to do when it comes to civil protection, so that they include the protection of the residents of the municipalities, the towns around the clock. But of course in a flexible way, because there are periods in different localities when you need to increase the presence of police, because mass events are held, e.g. discotheques, whether these are tourist areas. We need more power and more resources here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are periods of year, week or month when there is less, so the police will react flexibly and as needed. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, but I would like to stress very strongly that the reactivation of police stations is generally expected by the public, by the citizens. Where the station returns, the safety of the residents and the sense of security increase, which is a very important value. But where there were no police stations, crime increased, and if it didn't increase in the sense of recorded statistics, it was only because there was no one in these places to register them because the police were far away. [[Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive response.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u31	Thank you. So, I see, there's no extra question? [[Yes, sir.]] Okay, well, let's get to the next question. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yet, marshal, can I use this time and list of these posts recreated?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u32	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to shorten my speech because I thought there would be an additional question. Since there isn't, I'm gonna allow myself to use the time prescribed by the regulations to call up a list of precincts that have already been recreated, because maybe that's gonna be important. So so far the following police stations have been restored: in Bakałarzewo, this is Podlaskie Voivodeship, in Lysych, this is Mazowieckie Voivodeship, in Kampinos, this is the area the action of the Command of the Capital Police, in Leszno, similarly - the area of operation of the garrison of the Capital Police Command, in Szlichtyngowa, it is the district of Lubuskie, sorry, Lubuskie Voivodeship, in Kargowa, Lubuskie Voivodeship, in Dobiębieniewo, also Lubuskie Voivodeship, in Świnoujście, Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship, in Su¶c, Lubelskie Voivodeship, in Czyżewo, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in Chmielnyk, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in Dragacz, Kuyavian-Pomorskie Voivodeship, in Bukowec, Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, in Korytnica, Mazowieckie Voivodeship. And the next stations - to the end - in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship: in Zbuczyn, in Sobolew, in Maciejowice and in the City of Kościelny. If you are interested in a list of the 21 posts scheduled for this year and 156 for today, this is the list I have, I can send it to you. This list is open, there are also further notifications, from local authorities in particular, and each such notification is very carefully analysed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u33	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, and I am sorry, Members Andrzej Szlachta, Kazimierz Gołojuch, Mieczysław Miazga and Kazimierz Moskal and Krzysztof Szulowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the question about government policy on expanding large cities at the expense of small, less wealthy rural communities in the context of a programme of even development of Poland is addressed to the Minister of Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mr Adam Hamryszczak will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Noblecht. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 8 March 1990, the Polish Parliament adopted one of the most important laws of the state - the law on local government. It was a historic event, because after 40 years there was a restitution of local governments in Poland, which was an important modernization step in the process of decentralisation of public administration. It was then introduced for many years of territorial order. After several years of territorial stability, municipalities and powiats began to develop trends in changing the boundaries of certain municipalities. In many cases, these changes were justified and were supported by the authorities constituting the municipalities concerned. But there were also examples of repeated changes in borders following in the years to come. Such changes in borders took place in the case of the town of Rzeszów. The Voivodeship city of Rzeszów started the process of changing its borders in 2006. Further changes were made by 2010 each year. Rzeszów has expanded its surface more than twice: from 54 km2 to 116 km2. These changes were accompanied by an increase in the population, but only by a dozen percent. In this way Rzeszów became one of the lowest population density. There was also a dangerous phenomenon for the development of cities so-called. Spilling the city. In parallel, however, the change of borders was accompanied by a reduction in the economic potential, the development potential of the municipalities that gave up their territories. In law and justice policy, there is an assumption that [[♪ The bell ♪]] all local government entities developed evenly. In this context, how does the Ministry see the expansion of large cities at the expense of small, less affluent municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u35	Thank you, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration shall be responsible for carrying out border-setting activities. According to the Ministry of Development, the creation of instruments to encourage cooperation between neighbouring local government units is an appropriate form to create conditions for the development of these areas. In the current financial perspective of 2014-2020, action is being taken to mobilise JST for dialogue and cooperation. Currently realized so-called. Integrated territorial investment strengthens the forms of cooperation of local authorities in the functional areas of cities. The work currently under way on the Responsible Development Strategy provides for the optimisation of the implementation of the ZITs and the conversion of unions, the ZITs into sustainable partnerships of JSTs after the completion of the 2020 financial perspective to create metropolitan development and coordinate the actions of municipalities entering into the partnership. However, it should be noted that the expansion of large cities must not result from the desire to acquire new areas for investment, housing or leisure activities. Such an understanding of the desire to expand the area of the city may result in a strengthening of the adverse phenomenon of uncontrolled expansion of buildings in these areas. In the National Urban Policy 2023, which is also reflected in the strategy for responsible development, emphasis is placed on the need for a compact, sustainable city, which is conducive to reducing the phenomenon of suburbanisation with many adverse effects. The expansion of urban areas at the expense of neighbouring municipalities should not be motivated by the decline in urban population and their transfer to suburban municipalities. The current law on the income of local government units allows the municipality resulting from the merger of two or more municipalities by means of concerted resolutions to increase the rate of participation in income tax revenues from individuals by 5 percentage points over a period of 5 years, starting on 1 January of the year following the year in which the decision to merge was taken. One example of the municipalities that joined as a result of the agreement was the connection between the municipality of Zielona Góra and the rural municipality of Zielona Góra in 2014. In summary, it should be pointed out that urban expansion activities are self-government initiatives and each case requires individual consideration depending on local circumstances and impact on development opportunities. These proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u37	Thank you very much, do you still have an additional question? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u38	Thank you, Minister, for this vision of urban development and change, a possible change of borders, but I would like to remind you that in the case of this very city I am talking about, my city in which I live - Rzeszów, was the case of a three-fold reduction in the area of the neighbouring commune, and the last change occurred without the approval of the authority which constituted this smaller commune. So I am referring maybe not to the Minister, but to the Minister of Administration: Shouldn't the criteria for changing borders be tightened so that the borders can change only if there are positive opinions of the authorities of the two municipalities? At the same time, the Ministry does not provide for such a change in this respect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to change borders only once during the local government's term of office, and not every year, because such changes cause a disruption of investment planning in the case of these smaller municipalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u39	Thank you, and I ask you to respond to the Minister. Yes, you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As I said in the first part of my speech, it is true that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is responsible for carrying out actions related to bordering the municipalities, and all these demands should be addressed to him, and I agree with that - and this is also the position of our department - that the expansion of the area of large cities cannot result from such a simple desire to acquire new areas for investment, housing or recreational activities. So that once again here I wanted to stress this issue. That's the position of the department where I have the honor of working. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u41	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Stanisław Gawłowski, Mariusz Witczak and Waldy Dzikowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform, question on the modernisation of S6 and S11 expressways. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will answer. The first question is asked by Mariusz Witczak and Mr Waldy Dzikowski. You're welcome, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u42	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, the S11 road was included in the national road and motorway construction plan, and in the final phase, specific funds were allocated to carry out the feasibility study. This was, of course, the result of actions, which would seem to be, inter-party Members from Wielkopolska, Western Pomerania. Let me remind you that road S11 is the route of Poznan - Koszalin, Poznan - Katowice. Especially close to us, when it comes to Wielkopolska, Poznań, is the road S11 northward towards Koszalin, which shows a high volume of traffic associated with, among others. with tourism, but not only. As far as accidents are concerned, this indicates that this road is indeed very crowded. Construction sites have died, generally speaking in terms of construction of national roads, and we also learn from the press about possible alternatives. Is it true that the S11 road from Poznań to Koszalin, which was planned, is to be alternately converted to the A2 motorway, to the S3 and S6 roads, and to the south to the S5 and A1 roads? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister. Do you have any further questions, sir? [[We shared it.]] Excuse me, Mr Witczak is asking questions. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I wanted to specifically ask you about the schedule of work related to investments on the Eleven. We are particularly interested in the area of Wielkopolska, because this road was called the way of life by Wielkopolska. Investments related to the northern part Greater Poland is delayed. I'm thinking about investing in the estuary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please tell us what is the schedule of work on the Jarocin ring road, the second stage of the Ostrów Wielkopolski ring road. A very important investment on the S11 road concerns Kępno, because this bypass is also a exit from the S8 road to Kępno, because the inhabitants of Kępna at this stage do not have the benefit they should have, because there is no exit. I ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u45	Thank you, sir. The Minister is preparing for a precise and accurate response. [[Mr. Marshal is interested.]] Alive, sir, that is why I am very much counting on the Minister. [[Voice from the hall: What about Podlasie?]] We'll go to Podlasie, sir. [[Voice from the room: I hope so.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Maybe I will start with two of these statements by Mr Dzikowski, with whom I have some argument to say. Well, sir, you said that the work on the Polish roads was frozen. At the moment, investments worth PLN 50 billion are being carried out on Polish roads. This year more than PLN 16 billion will be spent on the construction of Polish roads, so I would not want such statements and such statements to function in the public consciousness at all, because they are not true. That's what I'm saying, based on specific numbers, on specific facts. Your second statement. You also said that the S11 road was kind of supported by a cross-party. Let me put it this way: all roads are cross-party. There are no party roads. There are roads that connect people, there are roads that we need to transport goods and people. This is the function of roads and there are no party roads. There are good roads or bad ones, wide ones, narrow ones, good ones or better ones. On the other hand, with regard to the road you asked about, the S11 road, answering in part Mr Witczak's question, a contract was signed on 13 November to design Szczecinek's ring road. Value of the contract signed - PLN 322 million. The construction will be completed in April 2019. Jarocin's perimeter: the contract was signed on 18 November 2014, amounting to PLN 293 million. The end of the investment is scheduled for August 2017. Ostrów Wielkopolski Oblast, second stage: On 18 November, a contract was signed for the construction of the ring road in the system.Project and optimize the value of PLN 284 million, the end of the investment - July 2017. Kępna Obrodnica: the contract was signed on 7 October 2015, the construction of the part of this ring road is due to end at the end of 2018. On the other hand, as regards the statements and information that the entire S11 road was included in the programme: it was indeed entered and exactly, as you said, at the end of previous governments. There has been an extension, as a result of which the budget of this whole project from just over PLN 100 billion - I am talking about the whole programme - has increased to nearly PLN 200 billion, while without providing an expenditure limit. Of course, it was possible during the election campaign and afterwards, and now it is also possible to ask and raise this problem, why there are not yet concrete decisions on the distribution of tenders, the accession to the second stages of tenders for these or other investments. Let me put it this way: If we really did it according to what you left behind, unfortunately money for Polish roads would end somewhere in 2019, so really soon. We must now do everything we can to ensure that the resources we have at our disposal, the resources we have at our disposal, make the most of them rationally. Today, too, those decisions we're making... In September, at the beginning of September, we talked about further investments. Soon we will inform the High House and society, our compatriots of the next great investments that we will launch or continue or about which we will complete the second stages of the tenders. These are all, ladies and gentlemen, the High House is well aware of... Each of these decisions It's a decision. for several billion zlotys. We're talking about huge amounts here. We are also talking about the fact that what we are going to follow in the final decisions will be the end of communication lines, the creation of a coherent communication system, according to the means that we will have at our disposal. Today, of course, one can ask - and we will answer every question - what, where, when, how it is prepared today. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for not building roads. We need to have the means to ensure that all these needs we don't deny... We do not deny as a government that also the road S11, and the one that was indicated in the question given to the government, the road S6, throughout their course are simply necessary. The road S6 - I will also say - is realized from Szczecin to Koszalin along with the ring road Koszalin to Sianów. In CUPT, the Centre for EU Transport Projects, the request of the city of Koszalin to finance the construction of this mid-urban bypass is considered, so it can be said by agreement. It's all under consideration. As far as CUPT is concerned, these decisions are to be taken by the end of the year. We're gonna do it right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is how we want to discuss these issues from the EU Transport Projects Centre in a coherent and reliable manner, but also in a communication manner, with the resources at the disposal of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, the General Directorate, within the National Road Fund, but also with regard to the funds at the disposal of the EU Transport Projects Centre. We have made very close contact because we want these decisions to be consistent, so that there is no such situation that some area of Poland is left without support, without such elementary support, which must result from the needs of this region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. Additional question, Mr Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u48	Thank you very much. Minister, I am very pleased that you have so neatly listed all the investments that have been started during the Platform's reign, because it is indeed a great credit. Just an S11 sentence, by the way. You know very well that you have important environmental decisions in some sections, and if you do not start an investment, their validity is about to expire and the money we spent over the last few years will be completely wasted. I hope you won't let that happen. And I hope that the Members who, in the previous term of office, have set up a parliamentary team for the construction of the S11 road, PiS Members... Mr. Marshal Brudziński has been very supportive...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u49	I'm supporting you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u50	I hope that Marshal Brudziński continues to support...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u51	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u52	...and will make the S11 really happen, and the Minister won't be as obscuring as he has for the last few minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u53	But to the question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u54	I keep asking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...in the S11 case. S6, just a sentence. A year ago, offers were received - exactly a year passed - concerning the transition to the second stage of the tender for the construction of section S6 from the Sianów ring road to Gdansk. You have stopped the process of settling these tenders for unknown reasons. You give different dates, these dates are...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u55	Mr President, I'm sorry, but time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u56	But I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u57	Then ask, not...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u58	I'm asking. You've stopped the process of settling these tenders, moving on to the second stage. I hope you'll answer precisely in a moment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u59	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u60	...when the next stage will be announced when the contracts for the construction of the S6 road will be signed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u61	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u62	I ask on behalf of myself, Mr Konwiński, who is with us in the courtroom...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u63	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u64	...and your Marshal Brudziński, because he too very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u65	I look forward to an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u66	...supports this investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u67	Thank you, sir. You've been out of time for a minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, I fully confirm, Mr. Marshal Joachim Brudziński is very busy, very concerned about the roads in Western Pomerania, but also in all of Pomerania... [[I'm so happy for you.]] ...not only about roads there - in general it supports road construction in Poland very much. And I am very pleased that we have such support in terms of raising funds for this purpose. However, I will say this: I will not give you, Mr, and the High House a specific date when these tenders are made, those specific S6s when we move on to the second stage, but I will say a few words about the objectives we set for ourselves. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in Pomerania... I would say this: The main problem we identify as the problem of access to the port... The main problems are access to the port of Gdynia, the case for many years unsolved, I think you know what it is, the Kwiatkowski route, the red route. The port in Gdynia is suffocating today because there is no possibility of development, there is no possibility of moving goods from the port in Gdynia and bringing goods to this port. The second thing is the second metropolitan ring road of the Tricity. It's planned that this ring road will have 30,000. vehicles daily. That's a huge amount. That's about the same amount as on the highways. Finally, the case of the route Rumia - Reda - Władysławowo. While these are mostly voivodship roads, we must also approach this issue. We also want to discuss with the local government about the OPAT, which is the second ring road that today is essential for the Tricity. And if we look at it - and on the other hand there is the section you are asking about, between Gdansk and Koszalin - then we have to say here, what is the first thing that really is for the interest of this region, but also for the whole communication cohesion of Poland, in the first place, which is on the second, which is on the third. We're not denying anything. However, the question of what is most important today is still open. Right now we're working because these are the decisions I've been talking about, which are worth billions of zlotys. You also know very well, gentlemen, because you are experienced politicians, what the weight of such decisions is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u69	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Robert Mordak and Stanisław Tyszka of the Kukiz club15 - question on the concept of construction of the 400 kV Kozienice - Oltarzew line. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers for the strategic energy infrastructure of the Government, Minister Piotr Naimski. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Mordak for a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! May 25th this year The Ministry of Development on the pages of the Public Information Bulletin posted a communication from the Government representative for strategic energy infrastructure concerning the conduct of the energy line 400 kV Kozienice - Oltarzew. This investment has been subject to extensive public consultation for months. Taking these into account, a corridor option has been identified to take the public's interests into account as far as possible. This option uses existing infrastructure channels, i.e. Corridor of national road No 50 and motorway A2. The multi-critical analysis carried out by the expert team has shown that the chosen and agreed social course of the line is the most rational. So why on 2 August Polish Power Grids issued a message about rejecting the course of the line 400 kV Kozienice - Oltarzew along the A2 motorway and the national road no.50 established in June this year. as a result of multi-criterial analysis? What were the reasons for the change in the course of this investment? Did the Polish Power Grids analyse the impact of investments in the new variant on the existing and planned development of areas where Kozienice - Oltarzew plans to build an energy line? Did the investor, when deciding to choose a corridor from the development plan of the Mazowieckie voivodship, take into account Resolution No 69/ 15 Sejmik Województwa Mazowieckiego of 27 July 2015? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the spatial planning plan of the Mazowieckie voivodship concerning the passage of the corridor under the line 400 kV Kozienice - Oltarzew been adopted in accordance with the envisaged administrative procedures, in particular concerning public consultation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u71	I would like to thank Mr Naimski for his reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Maybe a few general statements first. The fact is that the National Energy System requires investment. This is a question of security of energy supply in our country. These investments are high voltage 400 kV transmission lines, linear investments. What does that mean? This means that the construction of each new line requires the passage through many municipalities on quite long stretches, often in violation of the obvious interests of local communities, as well as specific owners of parcels or houses by which or near which these investments must be carried out. And it requires, of course, gentleness, it requires caution, it requires consultation, it requires compromises, and it also costs a lot of money, because sometimes you just have to pay compensation for used terrain, private territory. The 400 kV line from Kozienice is a line that will allow power output, energy from the newly built power plant in Kozienice. This plant in Kozienice will be put into service in 2018. In order to make full use of the capacity of this new power plant, it is necessary to build a new energy line to enable this. This line has been planned in such a way that the energy from Kozienice will be used in a large part, among others. in the Warsaw agglomeration. Thus many years ago, a project of the line from Kozienice to the vicinity of Warsaw was created. What is happening at the moment about this investment is related to this, I will say in general, that the areas around Warsaw are very difficult investment areas, when it comes to linear investment, because they are very densely populated, are densely built. The infrastructure there is already quite complicated. The projects that we found at the beginning of this year with the investor in the Polish Power Networks, but also with the contractor, are projects that were already at a multi-option stage for the reasons that I already mentioned, i.e.. local conflicts with regard to the specific course of the line. A really deep analysis of all these options has been carried out and it has turned out that the most rational is to run a new line along the communication lines, that this will be the least interfering. However, it also turned out that the number of social protests related to this route is so large that the investor has returned to the line which is decided in a formal sense, i.e. is included in the spatial development plan of the Mazowieckie voivodship adopted a few years ago. The 2015 resolution, which you mentioned, is a resolution that opens up work on the modification of this plan. This has never been taken, so there is a variant that exists in the spatial development plan of the Mazowieckie voivodship. I just want to add one more thing that might be important. The Polish Power Networks continue to conduct a very detailed audit of this investment and the entire planning of this investment over many, many years in PSE. There must be a line that connects Kozienice to the energy line, by agreement - I do not know if the honourable Member of the House has a map in front of his eyes at the moment - in any case it will connect Kozienice with a line of high voltage between the Warsaw and Łódź agglomeration, because it closes the energy ring around Warsaw. These analyses continue to be conducted multi-optionally also in the sense that the credibility of the selected investor is being examined and decision-making procedures are being examined in the last few years within the Polish Power Networks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u73	Thank you. Does the Member have any further questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u74	Yes. If you don't mind, I'd like to. Of course, I don't question the fact that this line must rise. It only seems obvious that the course which was announced at the BIP on 25 May this year caused incomparably smaller social protests than the one which was revealed on 2 August. Let me just remind you that during the previous session of the Sejm there was a huge, several thousand-dollar manifestation of citizens who did not want to accept the proposed course. But they're not just citizens, because I know that the Minister has received protests from mayors and communes. As far as I know, at least a dozen or so of the mayors have reported their protests, among others. Mayor of Białobrzegów, Mayor of Brewinów, Głowaczów Wójt, Promna Municipality Secretary, Stromiec Municipality Wójt. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's incomprehensible... I understand that the compromise was reached and there were those who protested. What is happening at the moment, however, is as if it started from the beginning: multi-thousand protests not only to citizens, but also to mayors and communes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u75	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u76	Mr President, in the sense that you are talking about, the intensity of the protests, the issue has not been resolved. The situation here is that each of us and each of the local authorities, as well as the citizens who live there, want to have electricity and no one wants to have an energy line in the field of vision, even in the field of vision. There is therefore a lot of protests. Unfortunately, we are dealing with them and these compromises need to be worked out. This is a matter of talking between the investor and the municipal authorities, and there are ways in which, as I say, there is a compromise. Let me say this: it is not by chance that we have a special law in force that allows you to carry out strategic investments for your country. In this case, the investor has not yet used the special law. If necessary, he will have to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. You, Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska and Mr Marek Sawicki, the club of the Polish People's Party, are asking a question on the CETA agreements concluded between Canada and the European Union and its Member States. Question to the President of the Council of Ministers. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki, Deputy Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, is responsible. Please, Mr Marek Sawicki is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The CEFA Economic and Trade Agreement is the result of the negotiations concluded between the European Union and Canada. The agreement, according to its official position, provides EU entrepreneurs with the opportunity to do business more effectively in Canada, as well as to contribute to job creation in Europe. The agreement will abolish most tariffs, liberalise access to public procurement and open up the services market. reta is due to be signed at the European Union-Canada summit in Brussels in October. Moreover, the agreement will enter into force even before it was ratified by national parliaments, and the Polish government initially agreed in Bratislava. In view of the numerous doubts and the lack of adequate information from the government, a number of questions need to be answered. Why did the Polish government support the provisional application of the CETA agreement without providing the public with reliable information on its solutions, stressing that the application of the CETA agreement will not have social consequences in Poland, which is obviously not true? Why does the government in its official position support the conclusion of negotiations and advocate the entry into force of the CETA agreement, which could threaten Polish agriculture, trade and services market? Why does the Polish government support the interests of international financial organizations and corporations and forget about the Polish taxpayer? Why does the government oppose only the temporary application of investment protection rules, dispute resolution, while uncritically adopting the rest of the rules that will affect most aspects of the life of Poles, stressing that the provisional application of the agreement does not require legislative action? Does this mean that the Polish government cannot take care of our national interests internationally?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u79	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u80	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I would like to start by pointing out that the CETA negotiation process lasted almost 5 years and the final content of CETA was agreed in 2014, which means that the new Polish government had no impact on this process. Of course, we know that negotiations took place between the Ministry of Foreign Trade of Canada and the European Commission, but the new Polish government was also unable to influence the position of the European Commission. This does not change the fact that I would like to notice two things. First of all, there is no position of the Polish government in the ceta case. Therefore, it is not true that in Bratislava the Polish government agreed to provisional application or anything. I was in Bratislava and I made it clear that there is not yet a position of the Polish government in the ceta case. This discussion is ongoing, perhaps at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, this position will be adopted. With regard to the consultation process or information for the public, I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Development has sent inquiries to the social partners, to many NGOs, to.Solidarity, OPZZ-et, Leviathan, BCC when preparing comments to the government's position. We only received one feedback that did not contain critical comments on CET. It only called for the Polish government to take into account the different types of sensitivity that appear in the public debate on CETA. Also at the beginning of the year, in March, before the SIAL fair in Canada, we invited entrepreneurs to consult, to provide information on the benefits of CETA. Only 10 entrepreneurs came forward, and this interest is simply small. This may be due to the fact that our trade flows with Canada represent a very small fraction of total exports. This is only less than €1.5 billion. I would also like to make it very clear that we have a very positive trade balance with Canada: we export goods for EUR 1.1 billion, we import only EUR 300 million, while the structure of trade is very beneficial - we export furniture, rubber, clothing, of course in a large part also food products. This indicates that this is an export generated by Polish companies, not e.g. as part of transfers between foreign capital groups. I would therefore also like to ensure that we consult widely. I personally, at the Ministry of Development, invited representatives of non-governmental organisations, including the most critical ones to CETA, i.e. Action for Democracy, Greenpeace. There were, as I recall, representatives of seven or eight NGOs. We were discussing. This discussion was considered very substantive by both parties. Therefore, I personally attach great importance to this social dialogue when it comes to CETA, as well as to TTIP. As far as the provisional application is concerned, I stress once again that the Polish government has not yet agreed to anything, because there is no official position. On the other hand, we are pleased to note that CETA has been recognised as a mixed agreement, which requires the consent of all Member States and not just of the European Parliament. That's what we've been paying attention to from the very beginning. The possibility for the European Union to provisionally apply the CETA trade agreement is set out in Article. 218 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: CETA's provisions, which fall within the competence of the European Union, i.e. the commercial part in general, may be applied on a provisional basis. On the other hand, the investment part, which is the most controversial issue, which at the moment is also discussed within the Polish government and which concerns the principle of settlement of disputes on the lines of the state - the investor, this part concerning investment courts, does not fall within the scope of provisional application. It will enter into force only after the ratification by the last of the parliaments of the Member States. Therefore, to conclude, I would like to assure you that all these sensitivitys that have been reported both by the public, although I have the impression that the interest of CETA is really small from the public... Of course, I know a number of criticisms, but given the very small trade turnover with Canada, i.e. the resulting small interest of Polish entrepreneurs, it seems that this matter will not cause any significant controversy after the adoption, if this happens, because the final position is not yet decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u81	Thank you very much. I'm asking you for an extra question. Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Your positions are actually contradictory. This situation you are presenting will radically change, because today there are barriers to products from Canada that will be abolished. You said you didn't have the position of the Polish government. So what did he agree to in Bratislava during the meeting? And one more thing. If the Polish government disagrees, will it block the signature of the CETA agreement? We know that CETA is a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. It is not true that imports from across the ocean will comply with EU standards legally in Poland when it comes to food products. After all, Canada is one of the three largest genetically modified food producers in the world. Under the agreement, are we at risk of influx of genetically modified food? And what will the Polish government do to block this food? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u83	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u84	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! So I'm answering the question about Bratislava. Since I represented Poland in Bratislava, I can say with full responsibility that the Polish government did not commit to anything. I clearly said that there is no position of the Polish government yet, and therefore the Polish government did not agree to anything in Bratislava. So I would like to calm down if it bothers anyone. The position of the Polish government, as I said, will be in the near future. It must be due to the deadlines and the final decisions that will take place in October, so I think that at the next Council of Ministers with a high probability this position of government will be finally adopted. As far as food standards are concerned, CETA does not refer to food standards. This means that the principle of preserving the safety of food standards remains the responsibility of the Member States. Therefore, as far as the risk of GMO contamination is concerned, it is virtually non-existent, because CETA does not refer to GMOs at all. Of course, I know reservations or comments from NGOs, which are talking about a potential gate that can open up in relation to GMOs, but it is not entirely known, because no one precisely formulates what this gate would depend on. As a rule, the interests of Poland coincide with the interests of France or Germany, in which countries this public opinion She is also very sensitive when it comes to safety standards. Therefore, I would like to remind you that Art. 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union refers to the prudential rules on this issue and it is up to the Member States to ensure food standards. I'm sure this is it. Also the issue of efficiency, for example, of our veterinary services, to check the quality of the goods, but in principle we are not concerned about the influx of genetically modified food in some significant way. Once again, I would like to assure you that, according to any estimate that exists, imports of food or any increase in imports from Canada will not be significant. Today it is 300 million, i.e. some absolute margin of Polish imports. Even if imports increase by 100%, it will still be a margin and quotas are fixed for food. Some categories of products are excluded from liberalisation at all, such as poultry or eggs. Beef quotas are fixed higher than at present, but further forming a margin at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] trade in the European Union. Potential import from Canada is 0.5% trade in these goods in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u85	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Mr Piotr Uruski, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec and Ms Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question about the functioning of the Customs Chamber in Przemyśl. Question for the Minister of Finance. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Marian Banaś, corresponds. The first question is asked by Mr Bogdan Rzoniec and Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the structure of customs and treasury services after a possible reform which is being implemented. We know that customs officers are a very serious professional group, introducing 1/3 of their income into the state budget. Minister! At the moment there is the Customs Chamber in Przemyśl, there are customs offices in Rzeszow, Krosno and Przemyśl. I wanted to ask: Do you foresee any further changes in this area and will this structure remain after the introduction of the National Tax Administration? Thank you very much. I would ask that the rest of the time be spent, Mr Marshal, for Mr Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to put forward arguments to support this customs office being in Przemyśl. Such arguments include the basis, staff, tradition and principle of sustainable development. As far as the base is concerned, she's been 90 years. Already in 1926 there was Customs Office in Przemyśl and after the war, as Przemyśl became a border town, since 1946 there has been an excellent, highly qualified staff of customs officers, in total there are over 1500 people employed. Most of the voivodship institutions are in Rzeszów. In our election program, Law and Justice, there are among others. helping these cities, once a voivodship, which have been degraded in the recent period. In view of the principle of sustainable development, we consider as Members of the Krosno-Przemyśl district that the seat of the tax office [[♪ The bell ♪]] It should be in Przemyśl. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u89	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the questions raised, I would like to say that according to the draft Act on National Tax Administration and the Act introducing the regulations within the framework of the National Tax Administration, the following organisational units will operate: organizational cells of the Ministry of Finance serving the head of KAS, National Tax Information, tax administration chambers, tax offices, customs and treasury offices, the National Treasury School and the Information Technology Centre of the National Tax Administration. The revised structure will consist of uniform, at both local and regional level, tax administrations. The proposed law, the provisions introducing the law on the KAS, contains regulations that allow the customs chambers to be connected with the tax administrations and the customs offices to be abolished. At the same time, the project provides for the establishment of customs and treasury offices. With regard to the suggestion made regarding the liquidation of the Customs Chamber in Przemyśl, I would like to explain that in the regulations cited above, it follows that the organizational units of the Customs Service will be included in the consolidation. At the same time, I inform you that the conceptual work on the shape of the field structure of the National Tax Administration is still ongoing. The organisational structure of the National Tax Administration is closely linked to the tasks that will be legally assigned to the various KAS organisational units. In view of the above, at this stage of work, it is not possible to provide an unambiguous answer concerning the future seat of the Chamber of Tax Administration in the Podkarpackie Voivodship. The analyses shall take into account both the issues of property ownership, infrastructure and communication, as well as the qualifications of staff employed in tax offices, tax offices and customs offices. As the establishment of the organisational structure of the office will take into account, in addition to the tasks, the economic, organisational and social aspects, I assure you that the argument relating to the important role of Przemyśl in the region will be considered during the decision-making process and these decisions will be taken immediately after the legislative process has been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u91	Thank you. I would like to ask you an additional question by Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to join the request, to uphold the request of my fellow MPs from Podkarpacie to take into account the aspect of the further functioning of the Chamber in Przemyśl in the context that my previous speaker, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, referred to in the context of sustainable development. The House employs 1225 officers, 59 Customs staff and 25 service staff. It is a huge crowd of people and in the context that Przemyśl is a former voivodship city, in the context that we are talking about sustainable development, I would like to point out that of course we understand as parliamentarians of Law and Justice the idea of reform, the introduction of National Judicial Administration, sealing, systematizing the work of this structure and some centralization, while we want to also [[♪ The bell ♪]] ensure the development of these small towns, especially in the context of the cross-border location and unrest that is taking place in our eastern neighbour - Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u93	Thank you, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already said, when organising a new structure, all the circumstances you are talking about will be taken into account, but above all, the tasks that are currently being carried out and will continue to be carried out. This structure will be adapted in this new form to the responsibilities to be performed in the future structure. So all the potential that is now going to be fully exploited. On the other hand, as regards the question of whether the customs office will remain, in the sense of the name and organizational structure, as is currently the case, it is clear from the rules themselves that the name will change due to consolidation, which is where I said the tax administration will be established. This is a matter of naming, but as far as tasks and potential are concerned, it will certainly be used, as is currently the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u95	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Member of the Commission: Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski and Mrs Jolanta Hibner, the Civic Platform Club, a question on the increase in electricity prices for final consumers addressed to the Minister of Energy. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Andrzej Piotrowski will answer. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u96	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We are very concerned about the potential rise in electricity prices. This concern is observed by businesses as well as end-users, households. It is heard that next year the price of energy will be dramatically increased. This is happening at the moment, while during the last period, and not only for the last 8 years, persistently, we have been working very systematically to build the energy market. The first signal was the KDT solution. It was a great credit to Minister Tchórzewski, as Deputy Minister of Economy then, who noticed this problem, solved the PPAs, co-solved them. Then, after the discussion, we introduced the TPA principle, i.e. the availability of a third party, we stabilized the oversight of the regulator through the new law on the Energy Regulatory Office, so that politicians did not decide what was going on in the energy sphere. Finally, we implemented the Stock Exchange Obligation Act to make the market decide who it buys the so-called from. The energy client. And at the moment, we are witnessing additional costs for producers, costs for saving mining, costs for not making RES decisions, for giving up the cheapest renewable energy sources. The sum of these actions raises fixed fees. The European Union is well aware that the European Commission prefers to have an amount on the bill for energy consumption without fixed costs. I wanted to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which decisions You're trying to protect your end-users from excessive price increases.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u97	Thank you, sir. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! Thank you very much for this question, because it will allow us to explain some kind of fabrication that appeared in the media. We do not foresee any significant increase in energy prices, but in fact a very important change has been made in the energy and mining department. We are currently seeing very large fluctuations in the raw material markets. In most cases, these fluctuations are caused by the market game mechanism, but by the market game used by speculators. Just so we're clear, they're entitled to it, because that's what markets are for, to make money out of them. On the other hand, economies suffer from this, at a time when this speculation is relevant to them, for example. raw materials, it is observed that one day something is cheap, the next day it is expensive. In wholesale markets this causes terrible perturbations, retail markets are affected by entities that try to smooth out these speculative impulses somehow. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Polish mining? Using the situation in which we have relatively low carbon prices on the markets - but there are already reasons to expect that this is a transitional situation - we have decided to create a structure that separates us from such fluctuations. Besides, the beginnings of such a structure have appeared before, behind previous teams, we have sort of finished it. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone says that RES energy is free, because the wind blows at no cost, they must be aware that it is not free, because it costs its extraction in the form of using turbines, certain investments. Similarly you can say about coal - it is free as long as it lies in the ground. We need to get him out, and it's costing us. In the vertical integration structure, coal costs are no longer relevant to energy costs. In fact, the cost of mining is the infrastructure in which mining works. Therefore, we can approach planning rationally, we can make thoughtful moves to increase efficiency, we can allocate resources to improve the efficiency of this sector by better organisation, by better investment. As a result, this will result in a lower component of the costs associated with raw materials for the generation of electricity in conventional energy. Therefore, this movement will not translate into an increase in prices, on the contrary - in the medium and long term it will lead to stable prices, so that citizens will not have to wonder and check daily what is happening on energy exchanges. Therefore, I feel that there is no reason to criticize this move. Coal is our natural raw material. And maybe one more element of the Commission's view. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's view is the result of two trends - political and classical economics. In the classical economy, it is known that if prices do not reflect costs, where expenditure of a fixed nature is incurred, they should be transferred to the recipient in the form of fixed charges, where variable factors are, they should be transferred in the form of charges adjusted to the extent of consumption. Each other system is an inefficient system, it can be used to mask certain political concepts, which is partly happening in the European Union by e.g. The introduction of RES sources is a political concept and requires funding from the tariff structure. So how is it being moved? Well, part of it is broken down in the form of regular fees for all users. This will be the finale of a slightly more effective auction method. But it is still a kind of subsidy paid by all electricity users. So, back to your question, I'm telling you there's nothing to worry about. There will be no significant increase in energy from the reorganisation of mining. The system will be more stable. Thank you very much. [[We'll hold you to that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u99	Thank you. And an additional question, Mrs Jolanta Hibner. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u100	Thank you very much. Minister, this year the government has introduced regulations that require companies in the electricity generation sector to direct their profits to the mining sector, i.e. mining. These measures are supposed to extend probably only the agony of the collapsing coal mines instead of modernising outdated technologies in energy plants. In addition, new barriers to renewable energy producers have been introduced, particularly in the field of wind energy and photovoltaics, giving only green light to biogas plants. Therefore, I have the question of how the price for the final consumer, i.e. each of the residents, every citizen of our country, is affected by changes in the law in terms of production, distribution of electricity and how much the price of this electricity will increase, even though the Minister announced here that it would not increase, but the costs would be. Does the charges for electricity distribution services, including costs of operation and development of the transmission network, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they be at the level of 2015, will they be higher and will they be passed on to citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u101	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The information you provided is the result of some misunderstanding, because the government cannot decide by law on public companies to direct profits for a specific purpose. There's no physical possibility. Of course, in the framework of the strategies set by the companies, investment policy can be shaped, so it is in some sense a tool whereby a significant shareholder, such as the State, directs its activities in a manner consistent with the strategy in question for certain entities in the energy market. I would like to point out that in the past year, before the current team took power, there was indeed interference of the regulator in the price of electricity distribution. Despite the increase in costs from companies, prices have been maintained at the same level by introducing a coefficient which should not be in my understanding and in the current management, the Minister of Energy, in the civilized world, to take place because it is a discretionary factor resulting from an independent but nevertheless official decision. It has been used to regulate, let us call it political: we will maintain prices, whether energy distributors have enough resources to maintain and modernise networks. Ladies and gentlemen, after I say this, the discussions with the operators of the ration system, we believe that this situation needs to be changed. Indeed, the necessary investments must be reflected in prices. These are not differences that would translate into significant differences in electricity prices, but it is always the case that at the end of the day this cannot be achieved, the customer must bear the cost and generation of energy and supply. Therefore, if we maintain the net in the form of a decapitalized, collapsing, then perhaps this energy will continue to flow, but the heavy winter will come and it will not come because the poles have fallen. These expenses must therefore be borne to some extent at this point in time. As I say, these are not significant changes at the moment, but the idea is to make this model work and reflect the nature of the system's operation. We will try to do everything to ensure that the way energy companies operate lies in a good organisation, in planning procedures, in ensuring that costs are allocated to these procedures and that this is transparent to the extent that it can be transparent to market operators or commercial operators. However, such a logical structure causes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we do not expect any significant changes here, which would be seen by users in such a way that this would limit the possibility of using electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u103	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the next question, the questions of Mrs Małgorzata Płępek and Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club, on the increase of environmental charges for water collection. The question is to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mr Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski will answer. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions of the Water Law draft provide that environmental charges will increase significantly. What is most worrying, the huge increase in these charges will affect the companies responsible for the collection of water used to supply the population. Water prices in different regions can increase by up to a dozen percent. In the case of Żywieca, the amount of environmental charges that will have to be borne, according to the novel, by the City Water and Sewerage Company, are so high that there is already a concern of a dozen percent increase in the price of water. Let me remind you that the municipalities pay up to some of the costs associated with water supply to residents. These will be increases which the Poles did not expect from the government, expecting a good change. Therefore, I ask the Minister to explain precisely how the new rates of environmental charges have been calculated. Why should water supply companies be included in such a high growth? Can you find money elsewhere and not in the pockets of Polish householders? Please indicate the amount of revenue from environmental charges for the collection of water used to supply the population this year and the estimates of these receipts after the entry into force of the Act in its current form. Surely such calculations are known to the Minister. I'm asking you to compare them. According to the Act, the State Water Farm of Poland will be established, which will have its own budget, its own scope of tasks and quite large competences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an additional large expenditure in the budget. Please answer whether the presidents, directors and managers of this company and its branches will be selected by competitive or party key in accordance with the principle of good change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u105	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am therefore referring to the issue of the fees laid down in the draft Water Law Act. Provisions establishing an obligation for all water users to pay fees for the use of water resources are essential to fulfilling the obligations imposed by the Water Framework Directive on Poland. In accordance with this Water Framework Directive, it is up to the Member States to implement the obligations set out in Article. 9 of that Directive, the principle of the reimbursement of the costs of water services. This means that national law should not generally exempt water levyers from the obligation to pay fees. In addition, the full implementation of the rules on the reimbursement of water services results from the ex ante condition imposed on Poland by the European Commission under the Operational Programme "Infrastructure and the environment'. And the adoption of the proposal for this law Water Law by 31 December this year provides for payment for water investment in the value of approximately EUR 3.5 million. If we do not introduce fees for all water users and this law is not passed by the end of this year, we will lose this €3.5 billion. The draft Water Law Act is about to comply with the principle of art. 9 of this directive, which says that the user pays, the polluter pays. And in Poland - at present - the reimbursement of water services costs, due to the number of exemptions that exist in the current Environmental Law, means that a relatively small amount of water is charged. And this is what the European Commission is accusing us of. And the aim of the new water financing system is to implement strategic plans. The resources from water collection charges will not be made available to the State budget, will be directly used to implement investments resulting from the flood risk management plan, plans, updates of water management plans and drought prevention plans. This new institution, which you spoke of in your question, is intended to be self-financing. Gradually, funding from the state budget for this institution will be extinguished, and this institution will have a duty and responsibility to create, build various types of investment, in general, water investment, flood prevention investments. Now we know that flood-related investments are snailing, they are being built very slowly - an example of Malczyc. And the fees for water supply companies for the population are associated with economic analyses and estimated environmental costs. These are very complicated estimates, all of which are estimated as part of the update of the plans for water management which are already created, waiting for approval by the Council of Ministers. And as I said, these rates are primarily based -- the level of these rates -- on these analyses. And here, according to the analyses we have in the Ministry, the environmental costs resulting from the use of water in 2010, because these studies are done every 6 years, were: for the Oder basin 1233 million and approx. 2200 million for the Vistula basin. It was so big. As far as growth is concerned, the fees will increase relatively little. The increase will be 5% , and this on the basis of a four-person family gives approx. 2 zlotys per month. If it's going on right now, for example. about the beverage industry is the industry will be charged 70 gr for 1 m3, for 1 m3, for 1000 l of water. So the price for water used to produce 1,000 liters of drinks per water alone will be 70 gr. That's a big raise? I don't think so. As far as the water supply is concerned, this will average between 0,15 and 0,6 per square metre, i.e. between 15 and 60 gr. The Act does not provide for competitions for the positions of directors for this new institution to be set up. Thank you. [[Yeah, of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u107	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Well, unfortunately, we did not get an answer to what is most important here, namely the price of water for residents. Water prices in Poland are high. Investments that have been made in recent years with regard to water supply networks have had a significant impact on this. After all, the inhabitants are burdened to a large extent with these costs. The introduction of fees at the level designed by the Minister for the Environment means a further high increase in water prices. 20% It's a minimum, even above 50%. Local government officials are beating the alarm, and you need to listen to those voices. There is no consent of the inhabitants to further steep increases in water prices. This means blocking further investments in the water supply network, and yet in this area there are still huge needs in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nobody's gonna use that water. This is a denial of the main slogans proclaimed by the PiS about promoting entrepreneurship. I call for water prices to be left at the current level.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u109	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I said that when it comes to the price of water for the residents, it would be ok for a four-person family. Two zlotys more a month than they're paying right now. That's what I said. As regards the further part of the question, the Ministry of the Environment, in agreement with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, plans to establish a water price regulator similar to the energy price regulator, which will be responsible for controlling the tariffs on water prices for final customers and consequently ensuring that water and sewage undertakings do not use the new Water Law for unjustified price increases. [[Marshal, can I have one sentence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u111	No, my fellow Member, because time has been exhausted. [[But one thing only.]] Ask the minister's cockroaches. I would like to ask questions from Bożena Borys-Szopa, Beata Mazurek and Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club, on the rise in the lowest pensions and pensions. The question is for the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Marcin Zielenecki, will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Council of Ministers on 13 September this year adopted a change in the valorisation of pension and pension benefits, which is due to enter into force from 1 March 2017. In the government's proposals, the increase in pensions is to take place on the basis of the principle of percentage valorisation, with a guaranteed minimum increase of 10 PLN. How many recipients of the Social Insurance Fund will be affected by this valorisation? In addition, the government intends to raise to 1 000. The lowest pension. Who will be included in this increase and what is the estimated cost of valorisation foreseen for 2017? Since Mrs Mazurek could not participate in this question, if the marshal does not mind, I will now give the floor to Mrs Rusecka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I also wanted to ask if the changes to the proposed valorisation in 2017 would also include KRUS, i.e. insured persons in the farmers' system. If so, what are the rules? As well as how many KRUS recipients will benefit from this benefit? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u114	Thank you. And I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the up-to-date questions about the real work on the bill amending the Social Security Pensions Act in two areas - i.e. in the area of the rules for the valorisation of pension benefits as well as in the area of the rules governing the amount of the lowest pension benefit. In fact, both operations, both changes are due to certain shortcomings in the mechanism used so far to value pension benefits, which was a percentage valorisation. Pension benefits, including benefits paid in the amount of the lowest benefit, which so far is in the case of pensions for total incapacity for work 882,56 zł, were increased by a percentage including two parameters - namely the price index of consumer goods and services and at least 20% a real increase in average wage. It can be said that the application of this percentage has resulted in the benefits of those receiving the lowest pension benefits increasing disproportionately less than those received by those receiving those benefits at a higher level. Thus, on 13 September 2016, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło decided that there was a need to correct both mechanisms. At the moment the resort of family, work and social policy has already developed a bill. This draft amending act is in the process of public consultation. The project involves increasing the amount of the lowest pension benefits, as well as the total incapacity pension benefits from the amount mentioned, i.e. from PLN 882.56 to PLN 1 000. zł. This is a significant increase. A similar mechanism will apply to partial incapacity pensions, except that this increase will be relatively lower. This will be an increase from the amount of PLN 676,75 to the amount of PLN 750. And a similar operation will apply to the amount of social pensions, which currently amounts to PLN 741,35 and will increase by nearly PLN 100 to the amount of PLN 840. As regards the second correction, the second mechanism proposed in the draft law, which corrects these deficiencies in the percentage valorisation, consists in determining the amount of the minimum increase in pension benefit; it consists in determining that amount at the level of 10 PLN. It can be said that around 2100 000 will benefit from the introduction of this minimum increase in pension benefits in this mechanism. recipients receiving benefits under the general scheme, as well as almost all recipients receiving benefits under the agricultural social security scheme, as for farmers this will apply to 1,100 000. of the 1,200 000 people. all beneficiaries receiving benefits under the agricultural scheme. With regard to the first mechanism I mentioned - i.e. raising the amount of the lowest pension benefit to PLN 1000 - about 800,000 will be increased as a result of this operation. Pensioners and pensioners receiving benefits under the general scheme, as well as benefits received by 350 000. persons entitled to benefits in the agricultural system. All social benefits will increase as a result of this operation. About 285,000. persons will receive these benefits at a higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u116	Thank you, Minister. And I ask for an additional question from the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u117	In fact, the question is only about the estimated cost of the valorisation planned for next year and whether the proposed solution falls within the budget-protected amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The estimated amount of valorisation as regards this basic valorisation mechanism provided for in the pension law, it, that mechanism, is unchanged. Regardless of the two operations I mentioned, a normal, annual, systematic valorisation of pension benefits for persons who will not be covered by these two correction mechanisms will be carried out. In order to carry out this valorisation operation, which will take place on 1 March 2017, the amount of PLN 1400 million is secured by the draft budget law. According to our estimates, the exact same amount will apply, you can say, to these two additional correction mechanisms, i.e. to increase the lowest benefit or the lowest benefit to PLN 1000, as well as the application of this mechanism, the lowest amount of valorisation at the level of PLN 10. So according to our estimates this solution will cost exactly the same - 1400 million PLN. Both amounts, i.e. a total of PLN 2800 million, are planned, secured in the draft budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. Mrs Anna April and my fellow Members, Edward Sulphur and Piotr King, Law and Justice, will ask a question on cooperation with Frontex. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Mr Jakub Skiba, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The first question is asked by Anna April. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent years, there has been an unprecedented increase at the external borders of the European Union in the number of immigrants and refugees who are trying to enter the European Union. The exclusive responsibility for border control lies with countries whose border is the external border of the European Union. On 1 May 2005 Frontex was set up under a Council Regulation, the full name of which is: the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union and one of the tasks of which is to provide additional technical assistance to those countries of the European Union which are under intense migratory pressure. The Agency may provide additional equipment, e.g. aircraft, cars, boats, and deploy trained border staff to those countries which require such support. I have a question for the Minister here. What is our cooperation with Frontex in those areas that represent the responsibilities of the Agency? Are we planning any actions that would support other European Union countries within the framework of Frontex? If so, what actions and for what countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u121	Thank you, Member. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you very much. But that's an important question. I would like to inform you that cooperation with the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union - Frontex - is multifaceted and concerns elements such as the coordination of operational cooperation between Member States in the field of the management of external borders, including the provision of support to Member States in situations where technical and operational assistance is needed at the external borders. Secondly, it concerns training activities for border guards. Thirdly, carrying out risk analyses. Fourthly, the development of research relevant for the control of external borders. Fifthly, the coordination or organisation of joint return operations - these are refugees. Finally, it concerns the implementation of information systems that allow for the exchange of information on emerging threats at the external borders, including EUROSUR. It should be stressed here that the key form of cooperation in the context of the current migration crisis, as mentioned by the Member, is however the participation in operational activities at land, sea and air borders coordinated by Frontex. The head of the Border Guard is the competent authority in Poland in the field of cooperation with the Agency. The missions of Border Guard officers in joint operations coordinated by Frontex shall be organised in accordance with previous Border Guard declarations in the framework of negotiations which bear the ABT symbol, namely the Annual Bilateral Talks, as well as in response to ad hoc requests from the Agency, called calls, to provide support in border situations which could not have been previously foreseen. Joint operational actions coordinated by Frontex shall be implemented by organising support missions in the points and sectors of the external borders of the European Union identified on the basis of a risk analysis. As part of the mission, support officers from different Member States shall be included in the teams of local border services. The importance of missions carried out using specialised technical equipment such as e.g. mobile surveillance units or aviation equipment that complement the host country's own hardware capabilities of the joint operation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that Poland is committed and supported by Frontex, whose primary objective is to protect the external borders of the European Union, which is one of the key measures to combat the migration crisis and the condition necessary to preserve the integrity of the Schengen area. This commitment in our assessment is more than standard and goes beyond the level of involvement of other Member States in the European Union. This is in line with the policy that we are pursuing, which puts the protection of the European Union's external borders first. Poland continues not only to maintain but to intensify the support given to Frontex to deal with and combat the immigration crisis. As regards specific data, as at 30 September 2016, 85 Border Guard officers participate in joint operations coordinated by Frontex, including 39 in Greece, 32 in Bulgaria, 14 Border Guard officers were seconded to Romania, Spain and Italy, Latvia, Hungary and Slovakia. In addition, five Border Guard officers were seconded to Frontex as national experts. Another seven officers carry out tasks in other EU missions. I wanted to stress that this is absolutely not the end, and our commitment will be increased. Between July and September 2016, Polish Border Guard officers served at land, sea and air borders as part of joint border operations coordinated by Frontex. At land borders, focal points have been established as a permanent platform for professional support, exchange of experience and training in order to synchronise activities related to the control and surveillance of external air, land and sea borders, enabling the integration of border management. The focal points constitute a permanent platform for carrying out border actions of a permanent nature as well as an infrastructure base for regional time actions. The Border Guard shall participate in the WO Focal Points land-based component both as a host country for foreign guest officers' missions and as an organizer of border guards' missions in other Member States. Technical equipment is also used in the activities, e.g. Mobile surveillance units, helicopters, cars, thermal imaging equipment. In the field of cooperation at land borders, the involvement of Poland in the joint operation Flexible Operational Activities 2016 in Bulgaria deserves particular attention. At sea borders, however, it is particularly important to involve Poland in the joint operation Poseidon 2016 in Greece and Triton 2016 in Italy. In addition, the Border Guard is also involved in operations in Spain. The purpose of the air operations is to strengthen airports, to meet weaknesses in the area of border protection at State airports. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The time is running, but I will say that on 14 September 2016 the European Union regulation entered into force on 6 October, which will transform Frontex into a European Border and Coast Guard Agency with much broader competences. And, of course, the headquarters of Frontex, as you all know, is in Warsaw. The Polish government has been obliged to negotiate the maintenance of the seat of the future agency and these negotiations are currently being conducted, with a very high pace and good course, as is acknowledged by the representatives of Frontex, the Frontex authorities, as well as the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u123	Minister, perhaps there will be an opportunity for an additional question... I'm sorry, Minister, because it's been a minute since you've been out of time, and there's an additional question. Maybe there'll be an opportunity to pass on this information as an additional question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jakub Skiba: Thank you very much. I'm done here. You're welcome. Mr Piotr Król will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The headquarters of the Frontex agency are located in Warsaw, which is also highly prestigious for Poland. As far as I know, the agency employs about 300 outstanding border security specialists. I would like to ask the Minister briefly - because the previous government appeared and presented itself as an extremely pro-European - as it so far looked like to deal with the Agency's seat and what it looks like today. Second line. How's the settlement going? I mean, in short, what is the issue of the Union's reimbursement of the Agency's operating costs in Poland? If the Minister would be kind enough to move these two threads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u125	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u126	Thank you very much, Marshal. Just a little bit. As I said, these negotiations are being conducted very intensively, even today is an official meeting on this issue. Indeed, the negligence was long-standing and very serious. It didn't create a good atmosphere when it comes to these negotiations, but the government has built such an atmosphere at the moment. Both the agency itself and the European Commission make a very high assessment of our commitment. Unless we are disturbed, these negotiations will be conducted and successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm, information on the social dialogue conducted by the Minister of Health will be discussed and presented by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Tadeusz Dziuba. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My brief introduction to this discussion will start with examples of questions that will probably be repeated in different options: Does the Minister inform representatives of the social partners in the health sector about the changes being prepared in the Polish health system? Do these representatives, including representatives of trade unions and employers' unions, have the opportunity to talk to the Minister about important topics for them? Have your meetings been and are of an incidental nature or periodical and planned? There are several reasons for asking such questions. I'll name four. First of all, we are in the initial phase of these systemic changes, which will progress rapidly. I will mention just one example: Access to benefits will be universal. The National Health Fund will be removed and health funds will be transferred to the budget. There will be a change in the management of the sector at regional level. A new contracting system will be established. Hospital activities will be integrated into outpatient care. Basic health care will be remodeled. The integration of health systems will take place. Successively, health expenditure will be increased to 6%, as announced. GDP, of course, gradually. It is clear that this will require the cooperation of all parties involved in the health sector, and therefore a permanent, planned and forward-looking dialogue is necessary. Another reason is that, at the beginning of this path, the demands of many social partners on behalf of health professionals focus on the formulation of wage and health expenditure. These are, of course, very important demands. However, there will be no good change in the health sector without the implementation of other elements of the change, such as: institutional changes or the organisation of the sector. Without permanent social dialogue, this necessary multifaceted approach to changes in the Polish health system may be lost. The equally important reason for waiting for rational and abundant social dialogue is that until recently, in the recent period of the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, namely after 2012, if I remember correctly, this dialogue almost disappeared. I would be grateful if the Minister presented the data in this regard. I hope it's possible. In such cases, numbers speak to imagination. So there was a need to restore social dialogue and there is a need for it to continue systematically. As the last reason for launching today's debate, I will point out that some social partners, but also some social media, at least suggest or even make a direct accusation - in my opinion, contrary to what is real - that the Minister of Health is not interested in dialogue. Such suggestions or hidden accusations can generate conflicts. This is undesirable at the threshold of profound changes in the health sector aimed, as you know, at rationalising it and making it socially effective. I repeat once again: a good change in health care cannot happen without the participation of workers in the sector's institutions, without dialogue with trade unions, without dialogue with employers' organisations. Without the participation of different stakeholders, it is not possible to achieve solutions based on understanding different reasons, different parties, but also to understand the possibilities and constraints arising from, for example, the available financial envelope. Conversations can be difficult, arrangements sometimes seem distant, but leaving the table is not good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u129	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Piotr Warczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, In his speech, he said a particularly important sentence, which sounded more or less so that without the participation of workers and without the participation of employers, dialogue with both trade unions and employers, it is not possible to reach a compromise based on mutual understanding of their points. This is, I think, an extremely important and precisely this idea, the Minister has been following this idea since the beginning of his term of office. Here we should pay attention to the history of social dialogue. The Tripartite Committee on Economic and Social Affairs has not been operating since 2013. I would like to remind you that within this committee there was also an industry team in the field of health protection. He hasn't worked since 2013. I would also like to remind you that, in accordance with the Act of 24 July 2015, a Social Dialogue Council was set up to replace the Tripartite Committee on Economic and Social Affairs. Since then, six plenary meetings of the Social Dialogue Council have been held and, as I recall, three of them have covered health issues. The first topic on health protection has already been discussed at the first inaugural meeting of the Council. Minister Radziwiłł participated in this meeting. During the discussion, it was found that health issues would primarily be discussed in a tripartite industry team. And so it happened because the same team regularly met every 2 weeks for the first 3 months, at the moment the schedule of meetings was set every 3 weeks. This team is a sectoral body composed of the same organisations as the Social Dialogue Council, i.e. representatives of workers' organisations, i.e. trade unions: NSZZ In the case of employers, it is worth recalling that the Polish Federation of Hospitals, the association of employers, the Zielona Góra Agreement, the Polish Association of Employers of the Pharmaceutical Industry also participates in these meetings. Of course, smaller groups are also involved within representative trade unions, although not smaller, to which they belong, for example.: The National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics, the Association of Residents OZZL or the National Association of Professional Workers of Physiotherapy, the National Association of Workers of Medical Diagnostics and Physiotherapy and the National Union of Professional Workers of Medical Rescue. So far, 14 meetings of the Tripartite Industry Team have been held. I would also like to remind you that both the subjects and the order of the topics discussed are addressed by the social side, so trade unions and employers. The topics discussed concerned the functioning of the State Sanitary Inspection, the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, the State Medical Rescue Agency, the Medical Technology Assessment Agency and the Tarification Agency, the situation of young doctors, medical training, post-graduate training, specialisation, the physiotherapist's profession law or the role of the public and non-public sector in the health system, but there were also issues such as the financial situation of research institutes, the assumptions of the reform proposed by the Minister of Health, and the protection of nursing care for society. To make this discussion more substantive and more specific, the components of the trilateral health team were established. Currently there are five such components, i.e. components for the State Sanitary Inspection, the State Pharmaceutical Inspection, medical rescue, the minimum remuneration of employees and the pharmaceutical policy sub-group. I would also like to point out that it is within the framework of the industry's activities that some principles have been developed and acceptance has also been obtained for further proceding the Law on the lowest basic remuneration in health protection. The draft of this law, which was sent to the public consultation two weeks ago, was repeatedly discussed and modified several times before it was officially sent to the public consultation just among the industry's health team. The Government Party represents in this team not only the Minister of Health, who is also co-chair of this team, but also the Deputy Ministers of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. In addition to participating in the trialogue, the Minister of Health shall take part, participate and attend at least several dozen meetings outside the trialogue. I held at least 26 meetings with trade union representatives and 36 meetings with representatives of employers' organisations. I do not have to say that such meetings also take place at a lower level, i.e. at the level of department directors or the departments themselves and this number of meetings cannot be mentioned anymore. I would also like to mention briefly, but I hope, the fruitful relations on the Medical Profession Agreement, which, as you remember, was held by the public assembly on 24 September. The Minister invited all the members of this agreement to the meeting before the day of the convention, also attended the assembly on September 24th... [[And who came to this meeting?]] ...but the mood of the gathered was not very useful at the time, so he invited everyone to September 27. At that time, all trade unions from the agreement participated in this meeting, where they announced that they were supporting their demands, i.e. calls for an immediate increase in health expenditure to 6,8% GDP or the establishment of minimum wages. This proposal repeatedly, sometimes several times, exceeded the proposal previously made when agreeing on the Law on the lowest basic salary. I think that this discussion will certainly continue at both the level of the industry trialogue and at the level of the Social Dialogue Council. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have two more appointments. Both of these meetings will be held this month because of the greater number of topics, so we are probably back to the cycle, the biweekly cycle of meetings and discussions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u131	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. Since 40 parliamentarians have come forward, I am setting the time for the question to be asked for 1.5 minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Aleksander Forczynski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased to be able, as part of the social dialogue, to ask a question to the Minister on behalf of the nurses. Some nursing staff, and this is probably the year 2000, maybe a little later, provide services today through the so-called. self-employment. Well, as I said at the time, especially the nurses were forced to create their own companies, they had to buy rooms, most often medical clinics, which were in the locality. They've invested money and they're still doing it today. Today they fear and hear that these civil law agreements can be converted again into a contract of employment, except that, Minister, some time has passed, several years. These ladies are so much older, so many years old. And they're afraid that they're gonna be replaced by younger friends, that when that decision comes, they're just not gonna have a job. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: Will the forms of civil law contract for this part of people simply be preserved in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u133	Thank you, sir. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz will speak next. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are days when people are blindfolded by the amazement on the speaker, because I wanted to inform you that my chief substitute and outstanding specialist for social dialogue and meetings with different environments was nobody else than Minister Warczyński. In 2011 and 2015, in a very professional way, Minister Warczyński represented the Minister of Health at many different meetings with such groups as nurses, oncologists, without any sarcasm. The Minister had a dialogue with oncologists on the oncology package, with rehabilitators, with diagnostics. When I wanted to be sure that this dialogue would be conducted properly, I specifically asked Minister Warczyński to lead it. I never got a chance to thank him publicly for that. Therefore today, Minister, respect, [[Applause]] because you were doing it extremely well and those voices about not having a dialogue There wasn't, and today they are and must be discussed from the Seymary. Then we didn't have to explain to Parliament that there was no dialogue. And that's your outstanding credit. I wanted to ask you, Minister, that's the thing. When did the Minister of Health - I will already ask completely seriously Minister Radziwiłłła - meet with diagnostics? It's such a big environment, a big professional group, a medical group. [[That's sarcasm.]] He met once in February. I'd like to ask if by any chance the cause of this phenomenon is this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the President of the NFZ has amended the regulation on quality requirements for laboratories in the case of cancer testing. He abolished all the substantive requirements required to study cancer patients. Do we know the reason and reason for issuing the order of the President of the NFZ of 30 June 2016, in which all the requirements for screening cervical cancer, breast cancer are abolished? Who's it supposed to be for? Patients? What are the real reasons why there was a regulation that set quality requirements for doctors, diagnostics and everyone working in the lab, and there is a regulation that all these requirements endure? I ask you to answer this question precisely. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u135	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u136	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One might ask: If it's so good, why is it so bad? Ladies and gentlemen, we are also talking to the medical profession community, and I must say that this information that flows from the environment is very different from what the Minister said. First of all, you don't take these professions seriously, you don't meet, you don't want to talk, you try to impose your narrative. In this way, dialogue cannot be conducted, especially on such an important issue as health. You are not making any rational proposals, you are proposing to return with the health care system until the Polish People's Republic. It's known that it didn't work out, and you want to bring it back into the health area. That's the way it's gonna go. So I must say that this optimistic vision, which the Minister has just been polite to present, is far from reality. On behalf of the Modern Club, I appeal to start taking the medical profession environment very seriously, because these people are competent and they know what needs to be done to make health care in Poland work better than it is now. Finally, I wanted to ask you one thing. Minister, it's about the physiotherapists. When a set of implementing rules appears, because the ministry failed to block this good change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the question is, when are all these laws gonna come out in public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u137	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that this question was forced by the behaviour of the Minister of Health during the last protest, the meeting. The Minister had nothing to say to the protesters, turned on his heel and said there was nothing to say today. Today you are talking about dialogue, on the other hand we hear critical words that there was no dialogue in that mandate. The reality is completely different. So here you can't curse reality or move the subject to infinity. There is simply a need for dialogue and an agreement over political divisions, because these solutions that need to be introduced are not for one term only so that health care can function better in our country every year. The Polish People's Party proposed a health pact, we talked about it for a long time to sit down and talk together. Recently, a conference was held on the initiative of our club, attended by local government officials, doctors, representatives of hospitals, who clearly say that without a comprehensive agreement of all parties, these difficult problems cannot be solved. So I have a question, Minister. Is the Ministry willing to take part in such a dialogue [[♪ The bell ♪]] beyond political divisions so that these difficult problems can be resolved in the longer term? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u139	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Anna April, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns resident doctors. We know that earnings absolutely do not satisfy young doctors, but we also know that in addition to this undoubtedly right but very difficult to implement the request, due to the timing of what the resident doctors expect, they make a number of other demands relating to the way they are qualified for the residency, the quality of training, problems with the implementation of specialization programmes. This is particularly the case for trips to the so-called. partial traineeships, aside from financial issues. Therefore, I would like to ask: Is the Ministry having discussions with the professional union of resident doctors, and if so, what is the course of these discussions, when these demands can be expected to be met and to what extent? I also have one more question. Today, the income of the resident doctor is about PLN 3600 gross. I have a question about how long it's been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You were talking about the ministry's social contacts. But, in fact, there's nothing from the number of contacts, from meetings or conversations. So far, there's nothing coming from your contacts and conversations either. All the laws that have been submitted in the Sejm so far, concerning changes in health care, had a negative opinion of most medical circles, trade unions. The Ministry did not consider it at all, perhaps because it was the so-called laws. Parliamentary. But here's the question: where did the parliamentary laws come from before with the Minister? I would like to get this answer because at one of the Sejm meetings, the Minister torpedoed the law on the profession of physiotherapist conducted by the Civic Platform. Representatives of the Association of Physiotherapy Poland were at talks with the Minister and received a dictatorship. The Minister threw a bill on the table, a bill of PiS Members, in which he assumed the liquidation of the physiotherapists' self-government, and said that he would not accept another law. And here I must say, with a bow towards the PiS, that thanks to the intervention of the large group of Members of the PiS, the Minister has resigned. So tell me what the Minister's actions are like, if you don't mind. [[Applause]] he prefers his own private opinions. I was in the subcommittee that worked on the physiotherapist's profession law, and the minister then represented the medical chamber, being [[♪ The bell ♪]] A determined opponent of hers. If this is the way to talk and respect the social side, then I don't think anything about health care reform is gonna work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u144	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The lack of money is the most acute in the health system. This government has decided to find them in local governments. They're not only supposed to pay off hospital debts, they're supposed to pay some of the medical expenses. In this way, you place responsibility for the operation of medical facilities, even though this is entirely up to the National Health Fund. No sources of funding have been identified, no one is interested in where the local governments are going to take the money. Minister, is this about the government destroying governments and explaining to voters that governments aren't doing well? Is it your medicine to take responsibility for the health care of local governments to heal them? And the next question is: What is the dialogue between the Minister of Health and the local government on financing health care tasks and extending hospitals? Does the government know the position on this issue of the Association of Polish Cities and the Union of Polish Districts? Mrs PSL has already ruled. Now rule the Law and Justice, and it is the Law and Justice that are responsible for what is happening in the health service. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask the Minister about such a compact group as the anesthesiologists are. It is a well-organized group of doctors whose work affects the work of other groups. We remember, once effective, the strikes of anesthesiologists, they are well organized. I would like to ask if any talks between the ministry and this professional group exist, what they may have been, what conclusions you have come to. I'm asking you for more than that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With all due respect, I believe that Minister Radziwiłł should be sitting here today. It is to him that we should first of all address all these questions. I have two questions. The first concerns the famous conference that took place before the protest of health workers at the Prime Minister's office, with the participation of Minister Radziwiłł and the participation of President Ochman. I would like to ask you about the presence of President Ochman. Was it the representation of the trilateral team, the dialogue committee, or did you represent only the trade union?Solidarity? I am asking because, however, there were important arrangements at this meeting concerning, above all, the issue of remuneration. My second question is related to the flagship, the most important actually slogan, that is, the increase in financial expenditure on health protection. Minister Radziwiłł's announcement indicates that this will not take place for ten years. The question is, when will you start taking into account in the budget the increase in funding and to shift all the related problems to hospital directors, as well as to company presidents. I absolutely disagree with the statement made by Minister Radziwiłł in the Committee on Health, that this is primarily the fault of negligence and savings made by the presidents and [[♪ The bell ♪]] hospital directors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice, another question. I ask the Member to do his job.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In media reports, we are informed about problems in particular areas of the health system, i.e. in areas which are absolutely crucial for the health safety of the inhabitants of Poland. There are protests from different medical backgrounds. We are talking about the massive lack of staff of medical staff, both doctors and nurses, the situation of underfinancing of nurses, the problems of resident doctors, the pay gap in the health system, the poor access of patients to specialist treatment, underfunded hospitals. Today we've heard about diagnostic problems, physiotherapists, anesthesiologists. I'm sure there'll be a lot of problems around here. My question. Minister, is there any department in the wider health system that can be said to be good and stable? In short, is there an area about which you can say that your predecessors in the government of the Civic Platform - PSL left it in order? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u151	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Lidia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. But before the question comes out, I wanted to welcome the guests from the Environmental Self-help Home in Wolbromy present at the gallery. [[Applause]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you a successful visit to the Sejm and, I hope, positive impressions about working in the Sejm. Greetings to all of you. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a special day because my constituents from Wolbromia are listening to me, and it just so happens, and my guests. [[Applause]] Minister, we have talked about this a lot - and in the previous term, and you have now been focusing on social dialogue and public consultation. What does it turn out to be? Unfortunately, for the first time in Poland there was a united protest of all health professionals. That means there's something wrong with this dialogue. We, of course, do not want to raise political issues, but pay attention to problems, because there are a lot of problems. What's it like with these consultations? Minister, on 26 July, I am referring to you on behalf of more than 20 Members of all options, all clubs, more than 30 patient and nursing agencies: the ombudsman, the Polish Deaf Union, the National Chamber of Medical Devices, the Gladiator Association, the OnkoCafe Foundation, the STOMAlife Foundation and many, many other letters on the extension of the public consultation on the highly controversial Act on the refund of foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices and changes proposed in that Act. And what do you think? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're texting me back after 30 days? That, unfortunately, you wouldn't prolong the public consultation, even though your patients actually asked you to. What is social dialogue like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u153	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Katarzyna Czochar, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland there are more than 1680 pharmacies, which account for about 10% the total number of pharmaceutical service providers. The services provided at pharmacies largely coincide with those provided at pharmacies, except that no prescription drugs are prepared at the points and pharmaceutical techniques may be the manager. The basic difference between a public pharmacy and a pharmacy is that points can only be situated in rural areas, provided that there is no public pharmacy anymore. The range of medicinal products at pharmacies is significantly limited by the list of medicinal products. Unfortunately, since October 2010, the list of the Minister of Health has been particularly restrictive. Minister, my question is: Are there any changes planned in the framework of the work on amending the pharmaceutical law to make it easier for villagers to have access to medicines by improving the functioning of pharmacy points? What future does the Ministry provide for the profession of pharmaceutical techniques in the context of the extinction of this profession? Here, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've got residue from the previous government. Is it planned to replace the profession of pharmaceutical technology with another profession? Will the Ministry support the requests of the pharmacies to amend the regulation to be less restrictive in terms of the list of medicines? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u155	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear a lot about partnership here, about public consultation. Perhaps you are leading them. As effective as possible, this is another matter. But if you're running it, be it with interest groups close to the department, or with groups that might influence the outcome of the election. And I wanted to draw your attention to small groups that you don't consult and ignore. One of them is a group of intellectually disabled people, especially children. It is dental care for them, which requires treatment under general anaesthesia. Even the Chief Medical Council addressed the Ministry. There's no answer. The rigors and criteria for carrying out this activity are so high that no one submits tenders to the NFZ. This care is provided by via central company, Warsaw in the Czech Republic. For this dental care, the Polish taxpayer pays back funds, and the NFZ is not even able to verify whether this care for these disabled people is actually carried out by qualified personnel, whether they are dentists at all. And there's no response. The same is true of the case I've dealt with many times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from this speaker - cases of nurses working with paramedics. It's not much money, but it's a small group and a lot of disregard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u157	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the matter of financing health care in our country. You have informed us that the programme you are going to implement is a programme for increasing health expenditure and increasing to 6% gross domestic product. This is the biggest growth, the only one in our country for several years. And here I wanted to ask if it is true that this postulate is in line with the request that the social partners associated with the Medical Profession Agreement have made. What is the state's attitude towards this, and how do you perceive the possibility that trade unions are proposing to introduce, to ensure an increase of up to 6,8% gross domestic product, and in addition immediately? How would this have a financial impact on the budget? At the same time, I would like to ask what you are going to do with hospitals like this. a hospital in Opatów, which has been privatized, which has been transferred to the Foundation under the Civil Platform and PSL programme, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where people die without getting any help at all. There are dozens of hospitals in our country. What are you guys... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Oh, God!]] What's your program to save these hospitals? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u159	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Public consultation in health care is not only a conversation with trade unions, it is not just a conversation with employees, employers, but above all it should be a conversation and dialogue with the medical community, with the patient environment, with all those who know the system most. I am the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on the Oncology. We invite you to our meetings of oncology authorities, and above all patients and their representatives, we also invite the Minister of Health. Unfortunately, for the last 10 months, Minister, I have not had the honour of having either the Minister or any of the Vice-Ministers. I just wanted to give you one example, an example of patients with colorectal cancer. This is a group of patients where there are about 15 thousand patients. new diseases every year. These patients and their doctors, their consultants have been asking for a meeting for months. Indeed, the meeting took place. They were deluded by the promises of introducing the so-called. a third line medicine that makes it possible to improve their health, a medicine that operates throughout Europe. Unfortunately, they cannot ask for consistent implementation of their demands. These are the sick of the group, for which 15 thousand are present each year. new cases of disease. Every day 28 people die from colon cancer. They are waiting for a conversation that will lead to the possibility of treatment, which is used in Europe and in the world, which should also be used in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're waiting for an answer on when this treatment is due. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u161	Thank you very much, sir. And now the next question will be asked by Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are here discussing the public consultation of various projects that have been carried out by the previous government or are to be carried out by the current government. We're moving on a lot of things. I would like to ask about a certain area of health care, which has not yet been discussed, namely laboratory diagnostics. Many times the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics has asked the then Minister of Health to make urgent changes in this area in previous years. She pointed out, for example. in 2014, at the Health Commission meeting, huge irregularities which require an immediate response from the government, e.g. breach of the limit of acceptable test time from the moment of downloading the material to the time of testing, incorrect transport of test material, failure to meet quality standards in medical laboratories, lack of qualified staff, lack of managers in individual laboratories or lack of authorisation of results, which is shameful because it turns out that the results are allowed under the current law to be authorised remotely, electronically, when the diagnosis does not see the process of carrying out the study at all. About these irregularities The President has repeatedly informed the previous Ministry and there has been no response in this regard. In view of the above, the question is: Is the Ministry currently [[♪ The bell ♪]] conduct any negotiations with the National Diagnostic Chamber in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This year, local government officials who, despite the negative position of the Union of Powiatów and Polish Cities, have been happy about the law on healing activity, which assumes among others, were able to see what the dialogue looks like in the case of Minister Radziwiłł. annual compensation by the local government as a founding body for the loss of health facilities, including hospitals, contrary to the declarations made by the Prime Minister in January this year, that no tasks of local governments without money will be transferred. The initiators of the creation of the Silesian Oncology Centre, including parliamentarians of Law and Justice, could see the lack of dialogue because Minister Radziwiłł ignored more than 15 thousand. signatures submitted under appeal for the establishment of this centre. The lack of dialogue could finally be seen by physiotherapists who had to go out on the streets, determined by the harmful physiotherapist profession law. The lack of dialogue on the part of the Minister also confirms the position of the Agreement of Residents of the National Trade Union of Doctors, in which we can read that after dialogue and agreement there is no trace, while there are symptoms of crisis in the management of a system that we have not dealt with in many, perhaps even for several years. In her statement, the National Section for the Protection of Health of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union for Solidarity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which we can read: "We believe that the formula for dialogue is an optimal tool, but negotiations without implementation are only fiction and theatrical games for media coverage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u165	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The question is short and concerns the work on the Law on the lowest remuneration for medical professions, for health care establishments. The question is: Has the Ministry, when sending the project to the public consultation, i.e. in consultation with the trade union party, with the social side, made some significant changes to this project, meeting quite a number of environmental expectations, or was it bravely taking place on its own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u168	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I will have a request to the Minister, not a question. I would like you to take an urgent interest in the situation around the provincial marshal hospitals in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship - I remind you - ruled for years by Law and Justice. I ask for this dialogue, because the current authority is making changes without looking at the social and health consequences entirely. The arguments are optimization, efficiency, reduction of unnecessary costs, reduction of costs, restructuring, capitalization with desired indicators, profitability. In a simple language, this simply means firing white staff and administration, removing troops, reducing on-call time in ER, reducing laboratory and imaging diagnostics for patients, on-call doctors in several wards. At the same time, several well-paid advisors are employed at one of the hospitals, local specialist doctors are fired to replace them with doctors from other voivodships who work two or three days a week. In conclusion, this curiosity, Minister: that is to say, in relation to my interventions and the questions asked, which result from the reactions of my constituents and from my duty to carry out the mandate of a Member, the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship is accusing me of the fact that, as a result of these interventions and questions, the number of patients has fallen significantly, and hospitals have recorded financial losses. Internauts picked it up right away and came up with a saying, "Who's asking, he's healing." If it weren't for the health and life of patients, it might be funny, so I would ask the Minister to look at the situation of health services in Podkarpacie in the context of social dialogue, especially in the field of hospital treatment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And as soon as possible, he cut short the rumors that Podkarpatie had become a test ground for new power in this area. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u169	Thank you very much. Another question - Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u170	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! We need to move forward and solve problems - problems left by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in the Ministry of Health. You have nothing to show for it, even though you've been in power for eight years. Today, you are going to the stand and making accusations after less than 10 months of rule of law and justice. It is necessary to address the major problems of the health sector. A good change in this area is very needed and long awaited. There are opposition charges that the Ministry of Health doesn't want to talk to representatives... These are misplaced and unconfirmed allegations. I have a question for the Minister: How has social dialogue in the health sector been presented in recent years before the takeover of power in the rule of law and justice? Is it true that for nearly three years there has not been an institutionalised dialogue with representative organisations of workers and employers? With what frequency was the Social Dialogue Council held under the PO-PSL regime, and with what time during the 10 months of rulership by Law and Justice? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u171	Thank you very much. Another question - Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the questions will probably be addressed properly, because, as has already been said, the Minister, who represents Minister Radziwiłła, certainly knows the whole situation very precisely and you will be able to answer that. On the other hand, I would like to ask, because our meeting is not about achievements, it is about dialogue, whether the Minister considers the words of Minister Radziwiłłła to be a dialogue, which he said here, from this Parliamentary tribune, about the strike of nurses at the Children's Health Center, that - I will remind you - for the first time in the history of health services - workers go not away from their beds but from patients. Do you consider it a dialogue that when it comes to the number of residents - and I would like you to say, however, whether the number of residents this year is less or more than in previous years - the Minister leaves, leaving you, and you say that you do not have plenipotence to answer that question. Finally, did the statement of a group of people who recently occupied the Ministry of Health... Notabene has already been mentioned here, and I would like the Minister to answer who they represent. These ladies, have these people given you an opinion about his shoe and praising the Prime Minister that she has softened...? Is this a dialogue? And one last thing: Do you want to talk to me? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and dialogue is considered to place projects on the website of the Ministry of Health for consultation in order to check that consultations have taken place, and in response is always not included because it does not agree with the subject? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u173	Thank you very much. Another question - Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u174	Thank you. Minister! As part of the health policy of the previous government, we have dealt with the mass transfer of certain medical services, public hospitals outside - the so-called. Outsorcing of medical services. The control of the NIK, which has been carried out in this area, is very negative. Does the Ministry therefore address these issues which are very important in its consultation with the environments concerned? What is the Ministry of Health going to improve when it comes to accessing young dentists to specialization? Because, as we've heard here, thanks to such a wonderful - in quotes - politics of the previous government we've been dealing with... [[Great, very good.]] ...with the situation that young doctors, ambitious people who want to study, had to look for specialized places in Ukraine, Slovakia, Hungary. Specialization was done by individuals, others for many years had no chance. I have excellent evidence for that. Does the Ministry of Health, the current management of the Ministry of Health intend to change this situation - a criminal, simply ridiculing Poland among civilized countries today? Finally, the issue of the situation of family pharmacies: Does this environment have sufficient representation in discussions with the resort, because - as we know [[♪ The bell ♪]] - as a result of the policies of the predecessors, several pharmacies of the family fall daily. Is there any work in this area, a dialogue with this environment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u175	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three questions for the Minister. The first question I want to ask on behalf of 15,000. patients with colorectal cancer. I have already addressed this question to the Minister, and I have not received an answer to this question to this day. These patients have been calling for a change in the current drug program for a long time. Currently, the National Health Fund refundes only two drugs, but the refund only applies to patients with very advanced chemoresistant cancer. Experts agree that treatment of patients with colorectal cancer should aim for optimization of treatment, while currently proposed treatment of patients with colorectal cancer is non-standard and cost-effective. I ask the Minister for information when patients will be able to benefit from a medical programme that will comply with the European guidelines and what prevents rapid change. My second question is about pay in health care. At what stage, Minister, are there currently work on a minimum wage bill in health care? My third question concerns the demands of the organization of medical rescuers. What about the increase [[♪ The bell ♪]] State Medical Rescue funding, and at what stage is this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u177	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Social dialogue is not only about health care, talking to doctors, with nurses, with rescuers, these are pharmaceutical problems. So to say, I'm going to learn about the problem that the owners of especially small neighborhood pharmacies are facing, in small towns that are currently being massively closed down. This, of course, is not a problem that has arisen recently in recent years, this is a problem that has existed for almost 20 years. It started with drugs for a penny, avoiding the ban on pharmacies, etc., etc. Those problems are a whole lot. I would like to ask for this social group, which is really at risk right now. Pharmacies, which even function as individual and yet have independence, are in the hands of pharmaceutical companies that combine wholesale with detail, which is not permitted under the pharmaceutical law. When will the infamous pharmaceutical pharmacy come in? [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is really absolutely expected by these small entrepreneurs at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u179	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask who was consulted about the changes that would be made in the operation of hospitals, specifically the hospital network. The changes that are proposed are very far-reaching. They will lead to the disappearance of so-called operators from the market. One-sounding. Large, multi-specialist hospitals will be preferred and the budget for these hospitals will be allocated in a lump sum form. How will patient rights be secured and patients who are currently being treated in a very good way, especially children who have haematological diseases and cancers and have bone marrow transplants? They are properly financed. What will the funding look like, what security looks like, and with whom was it consulted? Because as an environment of oncohematologists, it has already come to us in a ready form, that money that will fall into a large bucket of large hospitals, often having dozens of units, will go to those fighting for their children's lives. I wanted to ask you how this properly conducted discourse can result in all trade unions uniting, going out on the street and protesting. Is this really a proper dialogue? Shouldn't the dialogue look like that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you have to go out on this street? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u181	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Ewa Szymańska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 27 September, talks with representatives of the Medical Profession Agreement ended at the centre of the Dialog. In the context of the dialogue, have any concrete solutions been developed, even if partly in response to the expectations of the social side? By the way, I also have a question about the referrals to the ophthalmologist and dermatologist who were introduced by the Civic Platform: Will they be abolished and when? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u184	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! In Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship hospitals are a very serious workplace. Self-governments can't handle it. On 22 June 2016, Giżycko passed the march in defense of suspended gynaecological and obstetric wards. Together, nurses, midwives, environmental midwives, and gynecologists went out on the streets of the city to protest in defence of their jobs, and this did not in any way involve an increase in wages. As a result of the transfer by old age to a private company, the management and management of the hospital in several years resulted in an extremely disastrous financial situation of the district hospital and consequently the suspension of the operation of two branches. These are the consequences of wrong decisions of the old age, but also of the PO-PSL government regarding the privatisation of hospitals. Minister, what are you planning to do to limit the pathological decisions of the old-timers regarding the operation of the hospitals for which they are responsible? Question two. I was approached by a representative of the EB association who informed me that in Olsztyn it is possible to treat a rare disease - bladder separation of the epidermis, called EB. Will the government consider adjusting the hospital in Olsztyn, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who would attempt to cure or treat this EB disease? And the third question. During the White Summit, Prime Minister Donald Tusk said that he would increase the health contribution by 1%. In my opinion, this announcement has never been fulfilled. Minister, when did the social side call for an increase in the percentage of health-related GDP in public space? Has the previous government, as a result of discussions with the social partners, taken concrete action and adopted draft legislation implementing, at least in part, this request? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u185	Thank you very much. Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club. That's another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Since Poland entered the Union, the problem of migration of health workers has started to grow. This issue is becoming a serious political and social problem. At present, migration of high-quality professionals is a common phenomenon and a cause of the health crisis. We're losing systematically qualified personnel. Every year, the scale of this crisis can grow. The previous government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party did not take action that would stop Polish health professionals. I therefore have a question, Minister: What mechanisms will be put in place by the Ministry of Health to reduce migration, to prevent it when it comes to health workers? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's best to go to jail.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Glenc, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! One of the groups of medical professions waiting to improve their pay and work conditions are medical rescuers. At what stage is the ministry's dialogue with the representatives of this professional group? How does the Ministry in its comprehensive health reform plan to regulate the employment of emergency workers? Does it provide as the only form of employment for a contract of employment, or does it allow for the possibility of leaving existing forms of employment for medical rescuers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyński, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since, in the health care sector, according to Members of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, it was so good and you did everything for the benefit of your patients, I wonder if I really have lived with you in the same country for the last 8 years, or if I have used the same health care. You really need not have a little self-criticism to say here today from the speaker that it is the rule of law and justice that is detrimental to the improvement of the health care situation. One of the many pressing topics is, among others. A decent wage for a decent job. The fact that there is a need to regulate the lowest salaries in health care and that this is very important is evidenced by the meeting of the social partners which took place in December 2015, even though it was an informal meeting. Further meetings of the team then discussed issues related to this subject. It has been defined among others. the list of professions for which data were collected from medicinal entities, the results of the analysis of solutions were presented [[♪ The bell ♪]] in force in the countries of the European Union. My question is: Are the demands raised by the trade unions in the Medical Profession Agreement to increase the proportion of GDP devoted to health protection and the establishment of a minimum wage in the sector being discussed with the social partners? If so, I ask for information, since such talks are being held, whether they were taken only after the Medical Profession Agreement in Warsaw on 24 September. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u191	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, the Law and Justice Club, please ask me another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that anyone who looks at the quality of social dialogue and evaluated it during the time of the previous team's leadership sees it as it looks today in the plenary room, i.e. without the participation of the Platform and PSL Members. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the level of social dialogue, there is no doubt today that this is a good change, that is a completely different quality. With regard to social dialogue, which takes place within the Council of Social Dialogue or within the Tripartite Panel on Health Services, the number of meetings in the sub-groups, the number of meetings with different environments, the number of meetings that the Minister has spoken about here is really impressive. This really is a different quality, and for that one should be thanked. I have a question for the Minister. Does he see the possibility of increasing the participation of patient organisations in these discussions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u193	Thank you very much. Another question - Mrs Anna Cicholska, also the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. There is no Member. Then it is Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Public consultation should influence the legislative process, it should be a continuous cooperation between citizens, beneficiaries of the system and the Ministry of Health governing the system. Were such practices at a time when the Platform with PSL ruled? And a specific question concerns the current situation at the Ministry of Health. Are public consultations conducted by the Ministry subject to specific procedures? Do these procedures lead to certain results which, as a result, help to take legislative decisions? In other words, are the voices of patients, doctors, nurses and workers or non-governmental organisations taken into account? And a very detailed question, I mean the labs. How the Ministry looks at the so-called. Outsourcing? Whether it's allowed or limited, because outdoor testing is not good for the patient, on the contrary - it does not create the possibility for a quick analysis or a rapid diagnosis of the health condition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u195	Thank you very much. This time, Mr Marek Polak, also the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u196	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus my question on the situation of resident doctors whose salary has been unchanged for 8 years and closes between PLN 2100 and less than PLN 3000 net. This group of doctors points out that they are often in their 30's, constantly working, expanding their knowledge and experience, and as full doctors, because with the right to pursue a profession, they have dubious credit capacity, unable to develop, establish their families or relax, and often cover compulsory courses or trainings with their own resources. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister what changes the resort is planning in order to improve the dramatic financial situation of resident doctors, unchanged, as I have said, for 8 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The new health strategy contains important proposals for hospitals, including district hospitals. These facilities are the foundation of the health system in our country. A significant part of them is in a very difficult financial situation, so any changes proposed in this area are closely observed, as evidenced by the very numerous and very active participation of representatives of this environment in the Parliamentary Group. County Hospitals. Such a team in this term of office of the Sejm was appointed on the initiative of parliamentarians of Law and Justice. The meetings of representatives of the Ministry of Health with parliamentarians and representatives of the community of county hospitals are very substantive, there is a good discussion. This meeting was held yesterday and attended by two deputy ministers who had a dialogue with representatives of the community of county hospitals. Please provide information on other forms of consultation of these changes, which are proposed in the area of hospital networks, in the area of district hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u199	Thank you. Joanna Kopcińska, Club Law and Justice. Please, Madame, ask me to ask you another question. There is no Member. That, then, is Mr Bogdan Rzońc - another question. Are you an MP? There isn't. I would therefore like the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Social dialogue, consultation - these are things that have repeatedly appeared during this over-the-hour debate. And it is a pity that neither Ewa Kopacz, who has been the Minister of Health for four years, nor Bartosz Arłukowicz - apart from his initial speech - nor Minister Marian Zembala. I would very much like to thank everyone involved in this debate, because these questions that you have asked, these questions that you have covered at the moment, in the vast majority of them, show what the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has not done in eight years of government. They show where the health system is, where the Polish health service is, is still facing huge problems. For the last eight years, this has led to a failure of professionals. A few points that should be highlighted once again. Hospital debt. This wonderful method, changes, restructuring by changing the status of hospitals to commercial companies proposed by the Civic Platform, has in practically no way contributed to improving the condition of Polish hospitals. The debt's still rising. The debt is still gigantic. Queues to specialists - this is a problem that probably affects every citizen of our country, especially those from the county Poland, especially those who live in small urban centres, in small rural centres, where the problem with access to a specialist is very big. The absence of doctors and nurses and other medical staff - this is a case that has not been resolved for 8 years. There are no incentives for an increasing number of people to enter the medical professions so that they can pursue themselves, but also to serve society well. Low wages - the average medical staff felt it very strongly and felt it. Of course, there are a lot of problems, the situation with regard to residents has been pointed out, but in general health care, with regard to the level of funding in terms of earnings, is really at a very low level. If there is no financial injection in this area, there is nothing to be deceived - but we will continue to face these problems. Another problem that can be combined, correlated with low wages, is the emigration of medical staff. After all, every day we meet with information that people travel beyond the borders of our country in search of work, in search of a decent wage. We cannot afford that those who are educated here in our country, on which we have spent enormous money, to lead them to a certain educational state, a state of knowledge, leave our country, leave our country, and that we educate others. We just can't afford it. We must encourage these young people to remain in our country so that they can live in our institutions. And another thing - a problem that is probably one of the most serious, because it concerns finance - a lack of real evaluation of health benefits. This is a problem by which, if it is not resolved, no changes will be made in this area, little will change in the health care sector. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the information that has been coming to us for some time from trade unions, from health professionals, about the postulates that have been put forward on health care expenditures, they are, they have been, and they will probably be. But these situations need to be resolved, perhaps in a systemic way. I am convinced that the Government of Law and Justice will do so. But, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that this social dialogue and these consultations are being conducted, that they are not as low as they have been in the last eight years, when we have repeatedly observed that this... [[There isn't at all now.]] ...the dialogue is broken that this dialogue is not permanent that this dialogue is not conducted. I am convinced that these actions, which you are taking, are being taken by your boss, Minister Radziwiłł, will be going in this direction to establish this dialogue, but also to have this discussion, this dialogue should be [[♪ The bell ♪]] constructive so that we can also move forward. For the Polish health service to change, it will change for the better. For this good change to also reach Polish health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u201	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Warczyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I, too, would like to thank those of you who would like to wait for the end of this debate and perhaps wait for a satisfactory answer to the questions asked. As you can see, as usual, the discussion about health care is very hot. I look at the questions asked - many of them went beyond the scope of this discussion, so I want to justify in advance that some of them will be answered in writing. [[Thank you.]] But I'd like to, if I can, because it's only 10 minutes, and the questions are down a few hundred during today's debate. But from the beginning: Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński asked about self-employment and the possibility of continuing the liberal professions. Well, here you should say that both the profession of doctor and nurse are so-called professions. free and to do so the professions of public trust, therefore one of their great domains is the possibility of self-employment. As in the case of professions such as lawyers who belong to this group, because they are free professions, they have the possibility of self-employment. And, of course, it seems to me that it is impossible to give up this form of employment. On the other hand, I am looking at what is happening at the moment in some hospitals, as you have heard, about pathologies that show that this self-employment is used for excessive work. And at the moment, we really have an analysis and work on this issue in our department. Perhaps some regulations in this area will be implemented. Of course, I thank Mr Arłukowicz for thanking him for his previous cooperation, although I was not a social dialogue person at the time. Well, I was actually very much involved in building an oncology package. Anyway, it's still going on today. Soon, I hope, we'll start talking about the second oncology package correction. This bill should soon be passed to the Sejm. With regard to the questions of Mr Suchon, and in fact the statement that there is no social dialogue, this dialogue is really ongoing. Of course, its effects are different and it is clear, but without this conversation there will be no results. There were also questions here, as it was before. Let me repeat what I said, that there has indeed been no institution for social dialogue since 2013. This does not mean that there was no such dialogue at all, but there was no institution for social dialogue and therefore there was no Tripartite Committee on Economic and Social Affairs. And it's just a fact, and it's not a debatable fact, it's just that this dialogue wasn't resumed until the end of 2015. Mr Kasprzak asked if the Minister for Health was ready for an agreement beyond divisions. I think every minister is always ready for an agreement over division. On the other hand, the PSL proposal to raise the percentage of GDP allocated to health very quickly up to 9% seems unrealistic. In answer to a number of questions later asked, I would say that if we wanted to raise the expenditure on health care immediately to 6,8% GDP, as expected by the Medical Profession Agreement, the additional cost at the moment of this increase would be about PLN 50 billion. For obvious reasons... Let us remind you that for the whole year about 70 billion PLN comes from the NFZ, so it is practically impossible to increase by more than half, because the sources of this increase can be only three: either to increase the health contribution, or to burden citizens, or to increase the tax burden on citizens, or to shift from other sectors of the national economy to the health system. I can't imagine transferring PLN 50 billion from any sector to health care, just like that. It is known that this must be carried out very wisely and very evolutionaryly. Mrs Anna April asked about residents and the dialogue with residents, which is actually being conducted. Probably the most intense talks are being held with residents, who are also representatives of the medical community, more intensively than with other areas represented by doctors. Residents, as well as representatives of other medical circles, participate in the work of the team appointed by the Minister for Health, who will propose to change the whole way of education, specialisation, post-graduate and pre-graduate training and how. the appointment of residents, because we all know that this area requires very, very big changes. This team is expected to finish work quite quickly, so that these changes will soon be presented to you and proposed. Mr Miller asked about the law on the profession of physiotherapists, which was finally passed. However, it is difficult to blame the Minister of Health for the fact that some of the proposals he made as head of the General Medical Council are slightly different from those made as Minister of Health. It's clear and obvious. Mr Sosnowski asked, in fact, that there is no dialogue and discussion on the local side. I would like to remind you that there is still a Joint Committee on Government and Territorial Self-Government, and this meeting is held every month. Not much, such a committee, such a team of committees of common government and self-government operates with the Minister of Health. We meet at least once a month and all the acts presented by the Minister for Health pass through the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government, where the local government presents its arguments and positions towards all projects. Mrs Iwona Michałek asked if there were talks with anesthesiologists. I would like to say that at least every quarter at the Ministry of Health, a team of national consultants meets with all regional consultants in the field of anesthesiology, as well as in other specializations. But work is also underway, and at the moment it is quite intense, on the analysis of the regulation on standards in anaesthesia and intensive care. With a consultant plus a few people, professors and anesthesiology doctors, we are considering the requirements that are currently in force in the healthcare system in terms of anesthesiology and intensive therapy. Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera asked if the representatives of the "Solidarity," the ladies of "Solidarity," represented the trilateral team. No, in conversations with the Prime Minister did not, they represented only the trade union of.Solidarity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Lidia Gądek talked about the fact that all trade unions participated in the medical profession agreement project. I would like to point out that not all of them, because such large associations as the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics and the Union of Socialists did not participate in this project. Katarzyna Czochara asked about pharmacy points, about pharmaceutical technicians. There is already an amendment to pharmaceutical law on the finish line, and the Minister of Health will propose some changes that I think will sort of regulate the pharmacy market, strike a balance between large and small pharmacies, so that both can function successfully in the health system. Your Marshal, may I suggest that the other questions will be answered in writing? I have all the questions recorded, so I can answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u203	A written reply. There was indeed a great deal of questions, and if you accept such a formula and the Members agree, then I see no obstacle to the full answer being given in such a formula. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: If you accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We'd appreciate it. Thank you very much, Minister.]] Thank you, Minister. And Mr Mirosław Suchoń on the issue of correction. You're welcome. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u204	Thank you very much. Minister, in corrigendum mode, because I don't think you've quite sensed the intent of what I'm talking about. I didn't say there were no meetings, I was just saying that these meetings have such a formula that you present the project, they tell you what your idea is and what it's going to look like. There is no consultation and discussion on solutions, which is not a consultation, that is, the communication of information, and let's be honest with ourselves that health protection is in such decline today, that all ideas must be gathered regardless of what political side they are from, just as the Modern has been involved in this discussion, recently publishing its health programme. All these ideas need to be gathered, and we need to think about the political divisions, the party divisions, together with the specialists, what the health care system should look like. Speaking of people in the health care sphere, specialists are being treated frivolously, that's what I mean, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there is no such discussion over the divisions of all the ideas that are on the market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u205	Thank you very much. The Minister's statement and the honourable Member's statement completes this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u206	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How bad health care is, there is no need to convince anyone in Poland. In a particularly difficult situation there are county hospitals and health care facilities in villages and small towns. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: How and how does the Ministry plan to help county hospitals and health care facilities in villages and small towns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u207	Let's move on to the next one, that's point 13. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report by the European Union's Committee on European Union Affairs on draft resolutions on: - TTIP and CETA international agreements, - opposition to the ratification procedure proposed by the European Commission between the European Union and Canada - CETA without acceptance by the Member States, - Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between the European Union and its Member States and Canada (prints Nos 727, 728, 831 and 858). I ask Mr Dominik Tarczyński to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Draft resolutions were discussed during the committee meeting. In connection with the resolution presented by the Members of the Law and Justice and the lack of opposition, the resolution went to further procedure. Today is an opportunity to discuss it. Thank you very much. [[You had a lot to say.]] [[I'll speak for the club in a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u209	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. And to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to ask Mr Dominik Tarczyński. And that means that twice will not be repeated the same. It's just an appreciation of the Sejm's working time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I presented the report very quickly because I knew that I would take the floor on behalf of the club and present our position. In connection with the text of the resolution and the discussion, which I predict will be very dynamic and emotional because of the subject, I would like to start with a presentation of our position from a certain historical introduction. The content of this agreement is the basis for our discussion of the CETA and the commitments resulting from this agreement in the event of possible ratification. The content of this agreement, the obligations arising from this agreement and the persons, governments, who are responsible for the content, form and arrangement of this agreement, are important. It is very important to remember that the CETA negotiations were conducted for 5 years and ended in 2014. I am talking about this because the main political critics of this agreement - and to be clear, I am not a huge sceptic of this agreement - the people who are mainly criticizing these records are Members of the current opposition, Platform and PSL... [[Speak for yourself.]] ...although the Platform is moderate in this criticism, and mostly criticizing is PSL. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's not true.]] The honourable Member will have an opportunity, we will see. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll see about that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll see, we'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, we haven't started yet...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u212	We had an opportunity at a joint committee meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u213	But we have not yet begun to consider this point for good, and there has already been unnecessary discussions in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u214	We had a chance to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u215	Mr. President, wait a minute. I would ask you to remain calm so that we can proceed with this item. Everyone will have their time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u216	At the last meeting of the Joint Committees: Agriculture and Agriculture The European Union has had the opportunity to listen to the criticisms of Minister Sawicki, who wants to defend Poland, criticizing the Government of Law and Justice, who has in fact not yet decided whether this agreement will be ratified or not, whether Parliament will accept it or not. We all know it's a mixed deal. I am a little surprised that Mr Sawicki, a former coalitionist of the Civic Platform, who has always called for good contacts in the European Union, friends, contacts in the European Commission, on the possibilities, on the position of this government, is now saying that the conditions that are negotiated in the field of agriculture are not good for us, for Poland. They negotiated themselves, and now they're criticizing it, so I'm a little surprised. With regard to the resolution itself, of course, we included a reference to the nature and calling on the government to act on the intensifying of the work that we have left, i.e. the fight to have a Pole in the arbitration court. We know that the arbitration court will be 15 judges: 5 from the European Union, 5 from Canada and 5 from third countries. The resolution refers to the consequences and the formula of the agreement to be ratified. As this is a mixed agreement, as the European Commission has approved, it should be ratified by the parliaments. Therefore, Mrs Marshal, I would immediately like to make an amendment saying that, in view of the fact that this is a mixed agreement, in accordance with the article. 90. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland should be ratified by a qualified majority, i.e. by two thirds of Members in the presence of half of the statutory number of Members, and similarly in the case of the Senate - it concerns two thirds of the votes of the senators, so that this possible ratification has a social mandate and that there is no discussion of the fact that it has been accepted by a small number of representatives. In presenting our position, I would like to highlight an important element. As the agreement is a mixed agreement, as you know, a transitional period will apply. During the transitional period, the main element of this agreement is the commercial part. And here I would like to see our discussion - because it certainly is, here the arguments have already appeared - actually about the facts. I would like to mention that the balance of our trade is positive. As regards exports from Poland to Canada, it reached $1,200 million in 2015. Import is 372.8 million. The surplus amounted to $865.7 million, so in this transitional part, in the first part, that is commercial, the situation is in plus for us and this is such a period, the chance to see how this part of the contract works. Of course, many elements of uncertainty and non-response relate to investment issues, but the investment part of the agreement will only apply after possible ratification. We still do not have the government's position, but the government has not yet made a decision on this issue, but I believe that all risks and possible benefits must be taken into account at this stage before 27 October. When it comes to what I think is the most important element in our view, it is really - in conclusion - at this point, first, we must be ready to ensure the safety of farmers. GMO issues are often addressed here. In fact, these sales amounts referred to in the contract must be respected, possibly the rates of 3% must be returned. With regard to the second element, i.e. efforts, the presence of a Pole in the arbitration court is an absolute priority. Among the 5 judges on the part of the European Union should be a Pole. And of course, the positive balance after the first part of the trade, i.e. the trade balance, should confirm that this liberalisation is good for Poland. If this agreement does not meet our expectations in any way, it cannot be ratified and signed. The transition period will be sometimes for this - and it is said that it may last 2?3 years - to assess the risks and possible benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki will present the position of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement with Canada was, as has been said, negotiated and signed, initialled by the negotiators two years ago. It is fully available, there is a Polish text so that you can read this agreement. As far as trade with Canada is concerned, this represents around 10% trade turnover in the European Union, but only some less than 0,5% Polish turnover, because Canada is not a great partner for us, so this agreement does not apply to us to the extent that it affects other European countries closer to the Atlantic. As far as our exports to Canada are concerned, we can count on at least such branches as the aviation industry, because we have investors in Poland from Canada, furniture, Polish food, various other products. On the other hand, Europe imports less processed goods when it comes to imports. Canada is such a good partner here that it is a highly developed country, with high revenues and so on. our agriculture has managed in the European Union, and the Canadian market will also have a much wider open market, open to highly processed food. There are raised problems with agriculture itself. Well, agriculture is the only sector where, however, this agreement provides for certain restrictions and the leaving of duties and quotas in some cases. On the most sensitive sections, e.g. in the import of wheat, maize, beef, pigmeat, those amounts that were set for imports into the European Union are, I would say symbolic, reaching some, I don't know, 1% consumption in the European Union, and therefore cannot pose a significant threat to our farmers in this regard. There are concerns about consumer protection. All goods exported to the European Union must meet the European requirements for ingredients of products, their presentation, so-called. Lebeling, that is, what the consumer learns about the product. It will not be possible, for example. exporting to the European Union beef or pigmeat, the production of which will be driven by hormones which cannot be used in the European Union. This also applies to GMOs. We fully retain our European regulations on GMOs and national regulations, because here we have a possibility to regulate this within each country. So there won't be any danger here either. It is sometimes argued that American goods will flow through Canada, even in one of the analyses of the Sejm Analysis Office. In so far as the argument is not met, the rules on the origin of goods apply in this trade agreement, as in all agreements governed by the rules of the World Trade Organisation. Canadian goods exported to the European Union may contain only a certain maximum contribution of foreign imports from the USA or Mexico. It must be primarily a commodity made up of Canadian products. Concerns regarding the settlement of investment disputes are raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we now have an agreement with Canada, which also contains provisions. on the settlement of investment disputes. What is foreseen in CETA is much more, I would say, civilized and developed. Currently, the arbitration panel is appointed by a company that has entered into a dispute. There will be no ad hoc courts where the company will appoint arbitrators, but there will be permanent arbitrators appointed by the states - five by Canada, five by the European Union and five jointly appointed from third countries. Secondly, there will be an appeal procedure. Thirdly, there will be a full transparency of the work of these courts. In total, this way of settling disputes between investors and the state is better than the one we have with Canada so far, and, I would say, does not pose significant threats to the sovereignty of the state, and they also fall, quite absurd, arguments. May I just remind you that we have had such an agreement with the United States since 1990. On the basis of this agreement there were fewer than 10 cases of the Polish State's actions, and at that time, since 1990 the rules in Poland have changed incredibly. In addition, most of these cases Poland won - in one case there was a settlement agreement, one unless we lost. Thanks to this agreement to protect investors from the United States, we received many billions of dollars from US investments, many jobs were created. So for us, the formula that we're going to protect, we're not going to discriminate against foreign investors, that they're going to have protection here, and that, if there's a decision by an international court, it's beneficial because it guarantees investors, it ensures that they're coming in here. Concerns are raised regarding the Regulatory Cooperation Forum. This forum for regulatory cooperation cannot impose any party, Canada or the European Union, any standards, any standards. All the principles of European standards will remain in the same procedure as they are now, while the Forum aims at exchanging information, consulting, working together to ensure that standards and standards are as uniform as possible in the future. For example, there will be electric cars, drones or other things, and the idea is that there will be one American-European market, because if each of these commercial areas has its own separate regulations, it will increase costs and for producers, and of course for consumers, and reduces overall prosperity. So this forum serves to exchange information, cooperation, while it does not change the system of approval of standards and standards on both sides. This will also allow access to public procurement in Canada, also at federal level, which may be important for our companies. It is also worth mentioning that thanks to this agreement, many ways of allowing the market - through checks, certificates, consents, tests, tests - will be common, it will not be necessary to repeat these tests to enter the American market. European tests will be recognised in Canada, which will in particular facilitate the entry of smaller and medium-sized enterprises into that market, because for them this barrier of double testing is particularly, I would say, costly and difficult to overcome. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that it is also worth paying attention to the strategic aspect. Canada is a member of NATO, like us, but strengthening economic cooperation also strengthens strategic security, strategic cooperation and strategic solidarity. Let us remember that Canada is also very active in economic and political cooperation with countries on the other side of the Pacific, with very dynamically developing countries in the Far East. For us, maintaining Canada's commitment and Canada's economic cooperation with Europe is also important for this strategic reason - so that this partner feels closely connected with Europe with its economic interests. I will also mention that there is a large Polish minority, Canadian Polonia. For her this is also an opportunity - easier establishing economic cooperation with Poland will also be an opportunity for her. In total, the Civic Platform will support the signing of this agreement and its provisional application until it is adopted in the manner required for mixed contracts. I will also say that the adoption of a mixed agreement by all national states means approval by 36 national and regional parliaments, because in some countries it must also be regionally approved, so it is a very long procedure. Therefore, as regards this commercial part, which is within the Commission's competence, I believe that we should give consent to this to the European Council so that this part enters into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u219	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Piotr Apel to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. Before you begin - I have here a card asking you to greet the students and teachers of the Special Schools Complex in Słupia near Kępno. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Enjoy your stay and enjoy the work of the Sejm. Now, sir, you're welcome. It's time for Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u220	Thank you, Marshal. This is how I look at government benches, and I don't see the new Deputy Minister Grey, who seems to be the most competent and most appropriate, to have business in the ceta case... Yeah, but whose business is Minister Grey looking after? [[Oh, dear, you already know... don't conduct, don't tell me who's coming.]] [[Voice from the room: Good question.]] This is a very important question. We're talking about a deal. There is no government position, even though the Deputy Minister here often eats... There's no official position. And the question to Mr Tarczyński: Whose position in this connection was presented by the government in Bratislava on 23 September, when there was no Polish? [[There was no position, there was no representation.]] I know that in a moment from the Modern, perfectly supportive piS on this fatal project, we will hear that CETA and TTIP are almost a guarantee of cheap food, GDP growth, wages, exports, that 800 million people will be able to benefit from the flow of goods and services in general, and that it is almost 11 billion, which within 7 years can - with CETA itself - power the European market. If that is so, I wonder why in Bratislava everything happened quietly. Why doesn't he have a government position all the time? Why does everything take place in secret from Polish society? Maybe because we do not know what part of these supposedly beneficial regulations will affect the Polish market, or maybe because we want to ignore threats such as deterioration of food quality and consequently our health, weakening the competitiveness of Polish farmers, entrepreneurs, the possibility of surveillance of citizens. This is a very important issue. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Your marshal.]] Miss Marshal! High Izbo... [[Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u221	Let's just leave it... No problem. You can see who's sitting here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u222	Experts have no delusions: the construction of the provisional application of the Cotonou Agreement allows de facto entry into force, of course, after the adoption by the Council of the European Union, and later by the European Parliament, of this pact permanently. There's no way that CETA will cease to apply. There is no situation in which our Parliament will not ratify it and it will cease to apply. There's no turning back. There's no going back. If it's temporary... [[But we may not ratify.]] If we do not ratify, this continues to be temporary until we establish a positive ratification for Ceuta. [[Bullshit!]] They are appropriate - and I think you have them - materials in which experts express themselves unambiguously in this matter. Minister! I'm appealing because I understand that... Oh, he's here. You've changed. I urge you to come to your senses and stop supporting the temporary application of the agreement, because this is treason. This is treason. I'm not afraid to say it. [[What kind of treason?]] The betrayal of the state is an act contrary to the interests of the Republic of Poland. What interest do we have in bringing our agriculture and industry into bankruptcy? What is our interest in feeding our citizens to be unhealthy food? Or is it worth it to pay enormous compensation to multinational corporations every time we want to change labour market law? Does any of these points serve our country, the Republic of Poland? [[No!]] I have one last question. Perhaps this position that the government is presenting is a matter of some deeper agreement. Maybe there's a deal here we don't know about? Why don't we get something from the United States, Canada? [[It's not like there's a government position.]] If so, I would very much ask the government to inform citizens of the additional aspects of signing or supporting the provisional introduction of the Ceuta agreement. Here again, Mrs. Marshal, I make an amendment on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 amending the provisional provisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How's it changing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u223	The second part of the speech on behalf of the Kukiz club15, Mr Grzegorz Długi. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u224	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u225	Let's not overdo it like that anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u226	We use different forms and we will develop them further. Mrs. Grodzka still needs some form in the future. Back to the topic, High Izbo, the problem is that we now have a very interesting alliance: PiS, a platform that strongly supports PiS, we will see how it will be with Modern. It's like I say, unlike what I'm saying. Germans, who are increasingly opposed to this solution, find that we have far more people in favor of something we do not know. What's the problem? I do not want to talk about the concrete solutions proposed in this agreement at the moment, but I think that we should discuss this, we should have time and conditions for this. The introduction of CETA through the back door is unfortunately extremely risky. This agreement was recognised by Mrs Cecilia Malmström as a mixed agreement with the so-called. Mercy. She said very clearly that it is, in fact, from a legal point of view, an EU agreement, that is, an agreement that is within the competence of the Union alone, and that, because of the political pressure, it agrees to be a mixed agreement. This means that tomorrow he can change his mind and say that it is not a mixed agreement, because it is only her opinion, and after signing - on 27 October, if I am not mistaken or 28 - we will have an existing agreement. This can't be right. It can't be that we're exposed to that kind of risk. Our government of keys, and that, unfortunately, is very sad. I'd like to know what the government's position is, and here it turns out that this position is classified. It can't be that the government doesn't know what it wants. If there are disputes within the government, then they should be disclosed so that we can all take part in this so that we do not enter into an agreement without agreement with us just because the bureaucrats in Brussels feel that this is better. [[Applause]] This isn't better. [[Applause]] We can't let that happen... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] ...to discuss our affairs... And I'm talking, not only about Polish, I'm also saying this as a European, because that's not a problem. only Poland, this is the problem of all the countries of our Union, which, however, must pay attention to their interests, not to the interests of others or some corporations. Mr Tarczyński just said here: well, that's good, because this will be the Pole in the Court. Once he's there, he's not going to be Polish, because if he's going to make any decisions, taking it, given that he is Polish, he should be immediately thrown out, because the agreement itself says he is not allowed to do so. So it doesn't matter if there's a Pole or not. [[But that's the procedure. There are representatives of different countries. It matters a lot.]] A Pole is also at the head of the European Union, and what? Do we have any benefit from that? I can't see. [[Of course it does. Then you need to see a doctor.]] The joke is, it's not that it's a Pole. The point is, they're professionals, and that's the problem. [[Exactly.]] On the other hand, the fact that we're letting you say that, because we're gonna get room for one son, we're gonna get room for someone the government's gonna send, well, we're gonna give up our business. I'm not saying because right now we don't know, because we don't have any valuations yet, we don't have any opinions, we don't have any in-depth analysis of what the effects of CETA will be. We just don't know that. [[We do.]] No, what we have is very short-lived... [[Prognosis.]] ...calculations. The claim that our agriculture will be protected by the fact that there are quotas is simply false. And what are they gonna be like in that amount... [[But it's the deal that provides for the amount of sales.]] ...locations, this is a different matter entirely. Just apples that are genetically modified in Canada, which is a huge amount. Our orchards have no chance here. Therefore, if we want to have a free market, and this is the value that we need to protect, we want to have an extended free market also for Canada, and in time for America, the rules must be equal for everyone. [[Of course.]] It can't be that they have lower requirements, and we have bigger ones, and it is. And contrary to what Mr Święcicki just said, it is not in such a way that it has been guaranteed in this agreement that the standards will be identical here and here. No, on the contrary. It says that they recognize what standards are - if they're good at them, they're good at us, and they just can't be. So that I would call here to come to my senses. I'm not calling for a boycott because it's not true. I am only calling for us not to allow provisional application so that in the normal ratification process we can discuss this, we can recognise whether this agreement is beneficial to us or not. [[Okay.]] And so it will be in all other countries of the Union. It's also being discussed there, except it's important to them, and with us, other things are more important, as it turns out, [[Applause]] Even though they're not quite more important. Let us therefore be Europeans and try to behave as intelligent Europeans behave, but let us not go to the slaughter without knowing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u227	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome. [[Marty, you're going. You're going, Marta.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We found ourselves in a very interesting situation today, because the demagogy we hear from the Kukiz team 15 is quite amazing. The situation is so strange that the Kukiz15 club is considered to be a club of freedom fighters and talked about it all the time... [[It's called patriotism.]] ...but he's against free trade. And yes, we'd be happy to be in the coalition with Law and Justice... [[Voice from the room: It's classified.]] ...if the case requires it. [[But neither are they.]] And the ceta case and the piss stand... [[Thanks, Marta, we'll be fine.]] ...which we heard today are good for us. The Modern Club is absolutely... [[But he doesn't have a job.]] Of course, unfortunately, we still don't know the government's position... [[Voice from the room: You can do it.]] ...and we know that the Member has expressed a positive position on the adoption of the Ceuta agreement. [[That's not true.]] Thank you very much, Mr Kukiz, who was the first to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15, because very briefly, but he has mentioned all the advantages of the CETA agreement in substance, so we do not even need to repeat them. But, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you one thing: because there should certainly not be such a debate in public space, when we rely on false information, when we rely on information very often directly false... [[Voice from the room: Facts.]] ...when I heard from you that it was a secret. It's not a secret. This agreement is available, this agreement can be read, it can be analysed. [[Voice from the room: No one said that. The TTIP is classified.]] And of course that's difficult, because it would take a lot of time and certainly involve experts, trade specialists, to analyze this agreement and to know exactly what its records are. Because I feel like we're talking about a deal right now, which is a long one, because it's almost 1,700 s., and nobody's read it. [[I was the only one who read it.]] [[But without understanding.]] As far as I'm concerned... What don't I understand the most? Why is Kukiz15 talking about supporting corporations and destroying small, medium-sized enterprises? It's the other way around. Large corporations are able to deal with a market like Canada, large corporations can afford lawyers, large corporations can afford to set up new branches in a big country like Canada, and small and medium-sized enterprises can't afford it. And at this point in time, when the CETA agreement comes into force, there will be equal rules for all. It'll be equal defense for everyone. They'll be defended. We are a member of the European Union. If we sign an agreement between the European Union and Canada, small businesses, medium-sized enterprises that have so far not been able to afford entry into the Canadian market and have difficulties, at least in judicial matters, they will be guaranteed uniform treatment rules and will be much easier for them. That's what's gonna create the advantage of small, medium-sized enterprises... [[Ha, ha, good.]] ...over corporations that have had it so far. [[Governments, not each other.]] Moreover, there is a lot of talk about food, and it is clear from the agreement that all the food that will be imported from Canada into the European Union will have to comply with very stringent EU standards. [[What article is that in?]] And you can't report that unhealthy food will be imported from Canada... [[Voice from the room: No demagogy.]] ...because she won't, she'll have to meet exactly the same requirements, so if she has to comply with EU standards, that means she'll be exactly what we have right now. Canadians will adopt a significant amount of regulation in terms of labour law. They will be subject to the International Labour Organisation. The adoption of the CETA will also provide an opportunity to boost growth and employment across Europe. We have an example, I think we already talked about it today, agreements with South Korea. Thanks to the agreement with South Korea, exports of goods from Europe increased by 55% and services by 40%. [[What about Poland?]] This is a simple example of how markets develop through such agreements. Each EUR 1 billion of exports from the European Union maintains an average of 14 000. well-paid jobs. This is also important information when it comes to customs. The elimination of customs and other restrictions from the point of view of business, and we are talking here about the amount of almost 600 million euros per year, which will be in the hands of both our Polish entrepreneurs, it is worth noting, as well as entrepreneurs from other EU countries, that will make us competitive and make it easier for us to operate on the outside market. It is worth mentioning that the parties in the CETA agreement negotiated the protection of their markets in the case of their sensitive products. On the Union side it is beef, pork and sugar and, in the case of Canada, dairy products. So we see here that the agreement has negotiated important points for both parties. The European Union is also protected here. In the case of industry at this moment, as regards the exchange between Poland and Canada, both parties agreed to accept certificates of conformity assessment issued by their units. A conformity assessment body in the European Union may test EU products intended for the Canadian market and Canadian products intended for the Union market. Experts point out that about half of the total growth of the EU economy resulting from the signed agreement will result from the liberalisation of trade in services. It is estimated that the full implementation of this part of the agreement will bring an additional €5.8 billion in annual income to the European economy. The Agreement provides a framework for the future mutual recognition of qualifications. This was also the case with the investment protection and dispute settlement system. At this point, this is an accusation, but from our point of view and from the point of view of experts evaluating this agreement, it will harmonise the whole system, simplifying the system, making it easier to settle disputes. CETA will not violate the right of governments to regulate in the public interest. Canadian producers may export to the Union products and sell them on the Union market provided that they are fully in line with the relevant European legislation, without any exceptions, e.g. reta has no impact on the Union's restrictions on beef containing growth hormones or GMOs, as was also mentioned today. Ladies and gentlemen, Ceuta is an agreement that protects citizens' interests, gives us the benefits of free trade, stimulates the economy of the European Union, including the economy of Poland. It is a huge opportunity for Poland to further develop the prosperity of its inhabitants. The modern government encourages the government, because we still do not have the government's position, to accept the ceta agreement. Once again, I have to express my surprise, but I hope this changes, that there are clubs that are against this agreement. Of course, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u229	Thank you very much. [[Your Marshal...]] About what? [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[You'll have the floor in a minute. You're on the line.]] There's no correction here because there are no questions yet. Sit down, sir, this is not the time to proceed with this project at the meeting. Mr President, these are the positions of the clubs, not the time for questions and answers, when you might want to correct them, this is not the stage. And now Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that this discussion of the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, which is CETA, is such a good training discussion on benefits and losses. And I was wondering, because here we have a united trio of Platforms, Modern and PiS praising the advantages of this agreement, whether on the other side we had a Canadian partner who did not know exactly what he was negotiating, and agreed to such super conditions for the European Union to sign this agreement. Mr Tarczyński asked me to pay a lot of attention. I don't really know if it has anything to do with the fact that he recognizes, praising the provisions of this agreement, that I have a part in this... [[I don't praise you.]] ...or maybe I'm being reprimanded for having the courage to talk about this deal in an open manner. [[For negotiating it.]] A little knowledge, a minimum of knowledge, is required from you, just as from all of us. The agreements, both CETA and TTIP, shall be negotiated by Union officials. [[That's what you've been calling yourself.]] It was negotiated by EU officials. The Member States, the individual constitutional ministers of these countries, did not participate in these negotiations. [[Then why are you calling?]] It is worth it for you to find the positions presented by the Minister of Agriculture for the previous eight years and the position of the current Minister of Agriculture of the PiS. [[I saw it.]] And you will see that these positions do not differ. [[They're diametrically different.]] And to this day we do not have an agreed position within the government, because another approach to the CETA agreement has a minister of agriculture, another approach has a minister of justice, and definitely another one has deputy prime minister Morawiecki. I would like to point out that this current balance sheet, which we are talking about, commercial profits and losses in relations with Canada, this positive balance of exchange between Poland and Canada is due to the fact that there are customs restrictions which do not allow free movement and within the framework of these limits this balance is positive. [[He'll still be there.]] But it's also true that Canada's share of our exports is marginal. The Member, the markets, especially the agricultural markets, are not just achieved on the spell. It's a job that lasts 10, 15 years, and sometimes more. [[Not eight years?]] Eight years, too. As you recall... [[Exactly.]] ...when I was a minister in 2007, the value of Polish exports was less than EUR 10 billion, and when I gave up this office, the value of exports already exceeded EUR 25 billion, with a positive balance of almost 7 billion. [[So where do farmers have the money?]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when the European market opens up to Canadian and US food products, it closes in the same part for the part of Polish exports and 80% for the part of Polish exports. our exports of food are European markets, these are the markets of the European Union. Let me put it this way: I'm amazed at the corporate attitude... [[Whose?]] ...and you, and the Law and Justice. [[This is a joke.]] Because in a situation where we had a tax ruling... When we had the commercial tax introduced, it was supposed to hit corporations and give revenue to the budget, and for 6 months the discussion on this tax hit farmers, suppliers of products to the commercial networks and processors, who also delivered these products there - with additional charges and a reduction in prices. It also hit consumers because prices on many food products increased at the same time. But the tax didn't come into force, and these corporations had a few billion extra revenues. Today, when we are discussing this, the modern Member explained that it would be easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to compete in European and global markets - Mrs President, I congratulate them on their ignorance. I really congratulate you on your ignorance, [[Applause]] If small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can handle international corporations. [[But they are.]] I'm not against this deal, I want to say it. I'm just in favour of full ratification. So that the trade part doesn't enter temporarily... [[I told you.]] ...so that we do not enter into the agricultural part temporarily, only that we have a national discussion and have either adopted or rejected this agreement under the adopted national and EU legislation. [[But it's against the Polish constitution, Marek.]] And they did it fully consciously, not in the circumstances of a homicide. If the French can afford a serious debate, if the Germans can afford a serious debate, then I am ashamed of the Polish government that the Polish government cannot afford to present Poland's clear position on this issue for 10 months. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And what was yours after eight years?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. Mr President, you have little time left, but please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u232	Express, express. Mrs. Marshal! You'd like to say, Your Honor, but, Your Sejm. I have a strange role here, at least, because I have to explain to the Modern, that if... We have saturated markets, that's for sure. The saturated market is characterized by the fact that it will no longer eat, drink, no more. Bringing 1 million tons of apples to Poland will cause that 1 million tons of Polish apples will not be consumed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u233	Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Circle of European Democrats. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I must say that listening to this debate, I have this kind of déjà vu. I was a Member from 2001 to 2004, when negotiations for Poland's accession to the European Union ended. The arguments I hear today as if they were taken out of the Sejm and the European Union's Committee on Affairs at that time. The same, I speak honestly, demagogy, the same scaring of the free market that I heard then from Andrzej Lepper's mouth, and even the then MP no longer PSL, but LPR, Mr Pęk. How many words they spilled, they uttered spells at committee meetings. How many times, how many offensive words have they put on Polish negotiators, Prof. Hübner, Dr. Truszczyński, to the Commissioners who came to explain the conditions of Poland's accession to the European Union. And the glory of God was a referendum. I must tell you that I remember exactly the relationship with Poland's referenda streets. The simple, old lady understood that Poland's entry into the European Union would be beneficial - not for her, but for her son or grandson. This is how the Poles argued their vote in favour of entering the European Union. [[But then that grandson ran off to England.]] Where is the Bone today, where is it today, with an apology, Kalemba... [[And you'd like to enslave him.]] ...not to mention the dead Andrzej Lepper. And that's exactly the same argument I'm hearing from that bleacher today. Fearing the free market, scaring the economic community of the western, transatlantic world, first of all, it is ineffective, second, it is unnecessary. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, that you really believe in the value and purpose of trade that drives the world economy, including the economic benefits of our country, our nation and our society. [[What's the benefit?]] I just want to say one thing. Near the European Democrats are in favour of this agreement. She's already negotiated. We already know her. As one of the modern messengers said, you can go to the Sejm Library, spend several dozen hours reading and all doubts will be addressed by this reading. Another issue is a resolution on which we are actually debating. Honestly, it's pretty clumsy. [[Why?]] Even so from a linguistic point of view, I think it will sound worse when I hear: In addition, with regard to other agreements, the Sejm calls on the Government of the Republic of Poland to continue to act in accordance with the direction adopted and to undertake further increased work in order to develop the final, most favourable provisions of the agreement, etc., etc. [[TTIP.]] I'd say that new speech from the time this Seym didn't represent the nation, but a dead party of united laborers and satellites. But okay, fine. The resolution says: we accept or express a positive agreement with Canada. [[He doesn't say that.]] We will accept it in ratification. Will we? We will. [[Read it, sir.]] We recommend the government to step up efforts on the TTIP negotiations, well, let's recommend. In the end, I would like to say that the European Democrats are in favour of a free trade agreement with Canada and will, by gnashing their teeth into the language that was used, be in favour of the resolution that we have before us today in print No 858. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u235	Please, on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Gaina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on draft resolutions on TTIP and CETA international agreements, prints Nos 727, 728, 831 and 858. The draft resolutions submitted are addressed to the Council of Ministers and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, expressing the intention to take an official position representing Polish interests, highlighting the subjectivity of the Polish state. With regard to the resolutions submitted, there are important legal questions to be settled. The European Commission has negotiated the conclusion of these agreements under Article for 5 years. 207 and 218 of the Treaty of Lisbon. It follows that the Polish side can only use the instruments provided for in these articles in foreign policy. According to Art. 207 (2) is the European Parliament and the Council, acting by means of regulations, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, adopt measures laying down the framework for the implementation of the common commercial policy. As regards the negotiation and conclusion of agreements, the Council of the European Union shall adopt them by a qualified majority. This requires active policies in all EU bodies and, as a last resort, the construction of blocking minorities in the Council of the European Union. It can be considered that if the Treaties in question fall within the area of trade and services, as well as within the sphere of culture, which could jeopardise the cultural and linguistic diversity of the Union, and in the field of trade in social services and in the field of education and health, which could significantly distort the operation of the national system of these services and have a negative impact on the responsibility of the Member States for providing them, then Poland would be able to effectively exercise the right of veto. In addition, Article. 218 gives the Member States and the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the Commission a great deal of opportunity to interfere with the content of the trade treaties and, as a last resort, allows the Court of Justice to ask for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement envisaged with the Treaties, which, in the case of a negative opinion of the Court, blocks the entry into force of the agreement. In this context, possible use of Article. 90 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland to block TTIP or CETA by the Polish Parliament seems unreasonable because Poland has already adopted the Treaty of Lisbon in this way and has thus delegated its sovereignty in the field of common trade policy to the EU institutions. The dilemma of whether these agreements are mixed or exclusive competence of the Union may be secondary when contracts can be implemented temporarily for many years. The multi-annual ratification procedure by all EU countries will be so extended that TTIP and CETA agreements will actually apply and there will be no real possibility of leaving them. In addition, the application of the ratification mechanism by all parliaments could lead to a fragmentation in the European Union and its division into the Union of different speeds or completely paralyze the decision-making mechanism by placing the European project in a lost position. With this scenario, Poland is threatened by marginalisation. Does the Polish government have a strategy for this eventuality? On the other hand, the patriotic attitude presented by the Members of the applicants and the substantive arguments that express the legitimate concerns of our compatriots are noteworthy. In particular, the ISDS mechanism mentioned in the draft resolution, the dispute resolution mechanism on the lines of the investor - a country that strengthens the position of international corporations, lack of reliable information on the way genetically modified food is authorised on the Community market and the verification of production standards in the food industry in a non-discriminatory manner of Polish farmers and entrepreneurs, and the lack of reliable information on the impact of negotiated agreements on the Polish economy. According to the optimistic scenario of the European Commission, Polish economic benefits are on the verge of statistical error and are in the final position among the Member States. The Free and Solidarni Circle shares this argument. However, emotional calls and the position that the CETA Agreement covers matters falling within the competence of the Member States of the European Union and should be treated as a mixed agreement cannot replace a sound analysis of benefits and risks. Global security needs to be well understood. Poland is a participant in the Atlantic security system, which guarantees us state sovereignty and civilization development. The common economic area links the Atlantic community even more, and therefore all efforts to develop trade and investment cooperation should be encouraged. Calling on government to act decisively [[♪ The bell ♪]] protecting Polish interests is most appropriate, because the government has instruments of influence on the European Union. In addition, Polish MEPs instead of wasting time on idle discussions about the alleged threat of democracy in Poland should double their attention to the detailed provisions of the Treaty which minimise Polish risks in economic matters. After examining the reports of the Sejm committees, the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the resolutions submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Why TTIP, why does CETA have to raise our strong opposition? For three basic reasons. Firstly, because we are dealing with another aspect of arbitration or international court. This arbitration, international judiciary, puts big multinationals at one ceiling, at one level with national states, and this principle simply needs to be given up. The ones we're already in, give up, not sign new ones. This is the first thing he rightly raises, as we know from the press leaks, among others. Minister Ziobro in government debates. Secondly, why should the two agreements be rejected? Because they perpetuate the neocolonial status of the Polish economy. Because large companies - of course, non-Polish companies - which already dominate in many areas of our economic life, will get new, wide possibilities for acting on the Polish market, i.e. thanks to TTIP. there will be a model of the economy in which Poland is a cheap labour force, a raw material pit and a market. Thirdly, we are talking about agriculture. We are talking about agriculture, giving an example of Mexican agriculture after 20 years of operation of NAFTA and what happened after the signing of NAFTA with Mexican agriculture in confrontation with large-scale, powerful American agriculture. Well, ladies and gentlemen, over a million and even, as it is estimated, 1.5 Millions of farms disappeared in Mexico because these crappy, cheap, antibiotic-broken chickens are entering the markets. And so it will be in Poland. The same will happen in Poland. You have to be aware of that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth mentioning in the debate on TTIP and CETA the slogan used by Minister Waszczykowski in recent days that TTIP and CETA are economic NATO. This is an economic NATO which is designed to increase Polish security. But I ask, what economic NATO is supposed to defend Poland from, because it is probably only from a Polish producer, from a Polish farmer, through Polish trade networks, from Polish entrepreneurs. This economic NATO perpetuates, I repeat, the neocolonial status of Poland and that is the problem, and it is also the dilemma present, as I see it, in government benches or most of the ruling ones, so we have such an unclear position, because I will remind you that today's debate was therefore held today, not two weeks ago, that we were waiting for the position of government, and now the government is waiting for the position of the Sejm, which is why we cannot speak, and that is why we have such a game of cat and mouse. [[Applause]] It is very good that this arouses reflection and opposition also within the governing majority, because PiS falls into its own trap a little bit. They are rightly raised by deputy prime minister Morawiecki to increase the participation of Polish companies in various economic areas. Such economic nationalism from some of his declarations beats: great, great. Question: "What steps do we take, an ineffective trade tax?" Unfortunately, if we do not reach - and this is a solution and the past, and the future - for protectionist tools in the economy if we do not start talking about the need to protect our own market if we do not start talking about that the future is also another model of globalisation, because the technology model will change... There will no longer be a tablet, which is submitted in 12 countries of the world, because specialisation, production of high technologies will again be limited - there are already articles on this subject, there are already studies on this subject - to those countries that have high technologies, because it will be cheaper than transporting around the world. This is the future: developing your own strength, your own production, your own technology, so this is what you need to call for - not just a declarative but a real economic nationalism, which should show the government's actions during this term of office. Talking about how we're temporarily accepting ceta is a mess. I can't imagine that a government majority after 3 years of applying this agreement when trade relations are established... [[Then it'll be better.]] ...when the companies make their investments, they will suddenly say, "No, no, but we will withdraw from this agreement. It's a mess. Let's not say that, because that's not gonna happen. Let's say right here, right now: stop CETA, stop TTIP. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u239	Thank you very much. And we're going back to the Civic Platform Club. Mr Sławomir Nitras has the remaining time for this club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u240	It is always an inspiration to follow Mr Winnicki and this time I am not disappointed either. When I hear people like Mr Winnicki, but unfortunately also PiS politicians shout about economic nationalism, economic protectionism... [[He wasn't screaming, and he said it calmly.]] When they talk quietly... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] When Mr Winnicki speaks calmly and Mrs Pavłowicz is anxiously screaming about economic nationalism... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[And you're lying, so I have to react.]] ...then I have some advice for you. Poland gained access to the market of half a billion of the world's richest, free market thanks to its entry into the European Union. If your language speaks a little bigger than your nationalists in other countries, then our producers today who benefit from the prosperity of the free European market and will, I hope, also benefit from the free market when it comes to Canada will have... We're not gonna get it together. If people like you come to power, we can't recover economically. [[Your marshal, correct.]] I'm very worried... A great respect for Mr Marek Sawicki, my fellow Member, but, Mr President, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland clearly states that ratification under Article. 90 constitutions take place when we transfer powers of state authorities to international authorities. That's not an example. I hope you don't want to question agreements with South Africa, Mexico, Chile, Arab countries. Trade agreements are [[♪ The bell ♪]] European competence. We must respect European law. And I hope there won't be a coalition between PiS and PSL on this one. Be on our side on this, because the side on which we stand is the side which strengthens the Polish economy, our competitiveness. [[Applause]] [[PSL's normalized.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club. The rest of the time for this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u242	Thank you very much, Marshal. I regret that there is no Mr Jakub, to whom I wanted to refer, because he was talking about the flood of apples on our market. It's the other way around. And it's not like I don't understand. It is so that just learn something and you will know that Poland is the largest producer of apples in the Union and the Canadian market is open to Polish apples. There is even the opinion of the President of the National Association of Fruit and Vegetables Producers Groups, which can be found on the Polish pages of the European Commission, that the whole fruit and vegetables sector is looking for new markets, and Canada is such a market. I will also refer to the NAFTA issue, because the use of the comparison to the NAFTA agreement is completely unfounded. These are completely different contracts, different times. The CETA agreement is the most comprehensive, the most advanced agreement the European Union is signing, so this cannot be compared directly. We are pleased that the CETA agreement has been recognised as a mixed agreement and is subject to the ratification process by each Member State, but once again we call for a fair public debate on this occasion, not to use it for propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party... [[Elewarr.]] ...will also use the rest of the time for this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u244	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few sentences, I would also like to refer to the statements, for example. The speaker who spoke just a moment ago, Mr Nitras. Firstly, our resolution aims to ensure that first the national parliament ratifys the agreement and then it enters into force. This agreement will still be ratified. We need to restore a rational order and that is what we are asking, especially to the parliamentary majority. [[Applause]] Although Mr Nitras pointed to the coalition of PiS and PSL... [[No, I said, I hope not.]] ...on the possible coalition of PiS and PSL, actually there is a modern coalition of PO and PiS in this case. [[No, it's not. You know you're not.]] And here I have no doubt. [[Applause]] I have no doubt... [[Everyone with each other, Modern with the PiS.]] ...after the public statements of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the super prime minister... [[Supra...]] ...who's affecting these cases today. We expect a clear and serious debate in Poland for the coming weeks, not substitute topics. Because under the substitute topics there is a contract that threatens the quality of Polish agri-food products - not Polish, but those which will be imported, i.e. the quality of food available in Poland. Today she is of the highest quality. Poland is free from GMOs. If Canadian products come, Canadian food, Poland will be flooded with cheaper products, much cheaper, but with GMOs. That's not what we're authorized to do. [[Applause]] As for the situation of Polish agriculture, I am surprised at the absence of the Minister of Agriculture... [[It's true.]] ...in this debate. [[Applause]] This is unacceptable because Polish agriculture will suffer the most. Small farms will be wiped out. I mean, you will not be able to talk about family farms anymore in Poland, but about high-quality farms, because no one with great American and Canadian farmers will win this competition. [[But you guys negotiated it.]] No one's gonna win this competition... [[Well, what's the point?]] ...with American and Canadian farmers. [[Polish farmers will win.]] I wish I could. Only that the conditions will be unequal, because our farmers will produce food further of the highest quality, much more precisely, carefully, with authorised plant protection products that do not destroy the environment, rather than with such great openness to modified factors as is in the US or Canada. This agreement must not be compared with the entry into the European Union. [[Applause]] The European Union is also a cohesion policy, that is support for other countries, not just a free market agreement. When we bring the European Union only into the common market and trade, and the migration of the population, then it has absolutely no features of the Union that Schuman founded. We need to go back to this at all, this is a broader debate about today's Union - whether it went only towards the free market and lost values somewhere. But the European Union and the decision we were for... Here, Mr Protasiewicz suggested and mentioned the names, at least one very prominent Member of this Parliament, Minister Stanisław Kalemba, who has been hard-negotiating in the Union, even the current budget for Polish agriculture, because it is necessary to be tough also within the Union and not always bend your head - he has not done so and expressed his opinion, and it has been effective. PSL was behind the entry into the Union, only on rational conditions, not on knees, as it was proposed in Poland for a long time. It is good that today we are starting a serious debate on this subject, but let us not end it in the Chamber, where there are dozens of Members from different options, but let us move on... It is the responsibility of the government - to inform what is really negotiated on 1500 pages of the agreement with Canada, precisely what are the chances, what are the risks. There's a lot more to my sense of these threats today. But without a resolution that gives priority to national Parliaments, we will not have any debate. And under conditions that most of us do not really know - Poles do not know them - we will lead to a difficult, even very dangerous, deadly situation for Polish agriculture, Polish export, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The loss may be about 200,000. jobs and job losses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u245	Mr Robert Winnicki has tabled a corrigendum. Since Mr Nitras's statement is mostly a statement directed towards this Member, please... [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Well, we're not bidding. In every... [[25%.]] ...now some of the speeches were directed towards Mr Winnicki, from here 1 minute to correct. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'm not going to comment on whether or not I should be happy or worried that I'm a muse for Mr Nitras... [[That's too much.]] ...but no matter what, the Member misunderstood... [[My alter ego.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...my words, or maybe he doesn't understand the international situation. Yes, Mr President, the international situation is that globalisation is understood as a process Known to us from the 1990s or early 2000s, it ends. Yeah, and people like me are gonna come to power, they're gonna go for power in the West. He's coming... [[We'll stop you.]] ... Donald Trump, here comes Marine Le Pen. And it's an inevitable process. We're going back to... [[So you can't do it.]] ...a model in which national states will want to defend themselves against the dictatorship of international corporations. And this dictatorship of international corporations, Mr President, is something that not only nationals are paying attention to. I recommend, for example, the text of the President of the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers of Mr Kaźmierczak's dictatorship, the worst dictatorship of the 21st century, which can await us, which is precisely [[♪ The bell ♪]] Corporate dictatorships. This is a challenge and a threat for the 21st century. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u247	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. They're on the list of 34 people. [[Two minutes.]] It is time to ask the question, Mrs... [[30 seconds.]] ...that's 1.5 minutes. I hope that's enough. [[Too long, Marshal.]] Mr President, you may not use one and a half minutes. And I'll hold you to that for too long, so in your case, I'll be looking at the clock after a minute. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki... [[How many minutes?]] One and a half minutes. [[One minute for you, sir.]] ...Citizen's Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, I may answer those who fear that Canadian products will not meet European standards, such as chickens or other standards. Namely, I have an official document from the European Commission on this matter - this is a draft Council decision on the provisional application of the comprehensive agreement - and in my explanatory memorandum I read: The Canadian import will have to fully comply with the rules and regulations of the European Union (e.g. technical rules and product standards, health or phytosanitary rules, food and safety regulations, safety and health standards, GMO regulations, environmental protection, consumer protection, etc.) So this is probably the clear position and answer of the European Commission on this matter, as was negotiated. Secondly, I wanted to say, as far as this Canadian import is concerned, that I am not saying that there will be no threat to anyone. Food from where it is produced cheaper - and with us it will be more expensive - can indeed be a certain competition. Maybe some businesses will have to be wiped out, maybe farmers will have more competition. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this sector is more protected. For example, as far as wheat is concerned, the amount of admissible imports does not exceed 1 As far as beef is concerned, after 6 years of gradual investigation, 10 dbg of Canadian beef per inhabitant of the European Union can be imported to the upper limit. So it's really not that big a threat. But I have a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the government, whether it intends to do an information campaign for our small and medium-sized enterprises, for farmers, which new export opportunities open up to them after the entry into force of this agreement. [[As long as he gets in.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u249	Thank you very much. The formal request was made by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15 Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Kukiz club15, we are filing a formal request for a break and asking the agricultural minister Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel to come to us because I am surprised that during such a serious debate - right now there is a meeting of the agricultural committee, I should also be on it, but I think it is very important for agriculture to process these regulations - we are just talking to empty walls. I want to hear from the farm department... [[I beg your pardon. What empty walls?]] ...what solutions they have. And I ask that the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, come here because I think he is the person responsible primarily for agricultural matters, and we have waited a long time for this debate. So that I ask you to take a break and ask the Minister to come. [[Applause]] [[I'm sure he's listening to this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u251	With regard to the proposal, in reply to the Member, I would like to inform you that it is a matter of the decision of the government who he is sending to the Sejm. The government, as far as the ministry is concerned, will represent... [[Then we know the government's approach.]] Undersecretary of State. And such a solution, such a decision, as far as the government is concerned, remains in this case. And the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. I'm just reminding you of the 1.5-minute time limit that's assigned to the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u252	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! CETA was created since 2009 and the world only noticed it after ACTA. In August 2014, the negotiators concluded the Ceuta negotiations. In September 2014, there was information that the CETA text was published and the agreement awaits signature. Still, the case wasn't pushed further. One of the reasons was the confusion around TTIP. In July 2016, the European Commission adopted the texts and formally presented them to the Council of the European Union. If both the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament approve the Agreement in 2016, it can start in force from the beginning of 2017. At the beginning of July, EU Commissioner Malmström, who had forwarded the CETA Agreement to the Council of the European Union for approval, proposed that the Agreement should enter into force without the need for a tedious ratification by the Member States. The consent of the European Parliament would be sufficient. My question is this. What impact could the Polish government have in recent years on the CET negotiations? Are the CETA entries negotiated by the current government? And in accordance with the Polish constitutional order, should CETA be approved with the consent of the resolution? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u253	Thank you very much. I think we can close the list of people who signed up for the question. There's a total of 35 people. And now Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz, club of Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Krysia, let's go!]] [[We're waiting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u254	Both agreements of the European Union: with the US and Canada, on trade and services, were negotiated by the European Commission with large corporations, but secretly from Member States and with large public protests. The agreements provide for the so-called contracts. ISDS, i.e. A system of private arbitrators who will settle large corporations' complaints against sovereign states... [[That's not true.]] ...which, according to corporations, would threaten their laws -- their constitution, laws or administrative decisions -- their interests and expected profits. The decisions of these private arbiters of the state would pay huge penalties to corporations. It's not just the procedure of pushing both contracts that's faulty... [[What's all this nonsense?]] ...but even more dangerous is their content, which in the perspective will destroy weak, uncompetitive Polish small and medium-sized enterprises, but also healthy but uncompetitive Polish agriculture. Both agreements undermine the democratic mechanisms of the sovereign state's power in favour of an uncontrolled hybrid system of corporate power and transnational lawyers whose sovereign interests, democratic states are subordinated to economic and agricultural interests. [[That's bullshit.]] On behalf of my constituents from Eastern Poland, I protest against both fundamentally damaging agreements for Poland regarding their current solutions and procedures. Let us not sell Poland for profit not our own, but supranational corporations, for which we are only an easy market and which will complete the work started by European corporations, i.e. destruction of Polish agriculture and small entrepreneurship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u255	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Both CEFTA and CEFTA-like... [[Voice from the room: CETA.]] CETA, I'm sorry, a slip of the tongue. ...the agreement of Europe with the United States, which is not yet ready, is another step - there is no doubt - accelerating globalisation. As with globalisation, it will strengthen some who are already competitive, but can also eliminate the weak from the market. Poland is not an economic tycoon. All the more reason to look very carefully at this agreement and to draw up a cost-benefit analysis, because it can undoubtedly be so that in this complex matter, even though we are small, thanks to our corporate relationship with other economies we will prove to be winners on this agreement. But it's the government's duty to carry out such an analysis. In the meantime, the government is doing counter-edans, first of all saying that it will be in favour, arguing that Poland would be the only country that vetoes this undertaking - it is indeed a very substantive argument - then it is a bit for and a little against, and now it is waiting for the position and opinion of the High House. I wouldn't want to be a citizen and a taxpayer if I didn't take it lightly, as the classic says. [[♪ The bell ♪]] rely on the extensive economic opinion of Mr Tarczyński or Professor Pawłowicz or even his humble person. I'd like it to be a professional opinion. This is a government failure. This is where the government hasn't done its job, and it can't explain... [[But I'm a professional.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u257	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u258	Yes, if that's what you think you are... [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u259	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u260	...but I wouldn't want to rely on your opinion. I would like to rely on the opinion of my government, which we pay and which has a duty to inform citizens. [[Applause]] [[Respect your time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've got a total detour here. There are some strange new coalitions, not only along, but across. In recent weeks, there's also a change of approach, a change of position. We've been waiting for the government's position. That was the justification two weeks ago. Right now, the government is waiting for the Sejm's position. The Seym is divided here and along, and wide. It's a weird situation. I think the anxiety... [[But how is it divided?]] The position of the PiS club is quite different from that of some Members. That surprises me, too. That is why I wanted to ask what the position of individual ministers is, because here there is a big discrepancy. The Minister of Agriculture didn't come to the meeting because he had a completely different position and he had to tell the truth... [[The committee is in session.]] ...because he once fought to prevent GMOs from coming to Poland. We know here the hard approach of the PiS in this regard. And right now we're opening up to GMO apples, we're opening up to other food products that are of lower quality, they're cheaper, they're produced under different conditions. The Minister of Justice also has knowledge of how these trials, decisions, etc. will take place and has a completely different position. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I think the government should decide and take a position... [[Question.]] ...so that we can also here in Parliament know in what direction... [[Mr President, what is the question?]] ...the government's blowing up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u263	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There were many different, slightly ridiculous phrases about possible coalitions. I think we are all here, elected by our society, to create one constructive coalition for our economy and for our agriculture, for our citizens in this extremely important matter. There are a lot of questions about these proposed agreements, and they also arouse social emotions. Some are justified, others are not. And it is the responsibility of the government to prepare a public debate and a position that clearly informs us, Members, but above all our voters, which really results from these agreements for the Polish economy, which potential benefits for our economy result from possible ratification of these agreements and what are the risks and in which areas. That's why I have specific questions. Since there are no representatives of all ministries, I would specifically like a written reply from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health with precise information on how the Ministry of Health evaluates possible benefits or risks in relation to healthy food and related [[♪ The bell ♪]] including the potential health risks of the population in Poland. I'm almost done, Marshal. Second, to the Ministry of Agriculture. What will be the consequences for Polish farmers and, above all, for the quality of Polish food - I say this as a doctor - in connection with the introduction of these contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u265	Thank you very much. [[Thanks for the applause.]] [[Applause]] Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! CETA's economic and trade agreement arouses great emotions. Unfortunately, the lack of transparency in negotiating this agreement, the lack of information on this issue makes us, and as responsible people, we must have doubts. I say this as a Member of Law and Justice. It is not an argument for me that, for example. all European ministers for trade are in favour because many European countries have already supported certain solutions on a sheep-like basis. Unfortunately, the stronger the arguments supporting this agreement I hear from representatives of the Civic and Modern Platform, the more my orange light also turns red. [[Applause]] It is difficult to address everything in a short period of time, but my particular concern is the concern of causing the primacy of international corporations over the states. To whom is this agreement to serve - big companies or countries? And then there's the second line. I'm a member of the agricultural committee. What about European agriculture and us - consumers of agri-food products? Will we be condemned to the consumption of genetically modified foods, GMOs, food with additives whose use in Europe is limited or prohibited, derived from many pesticides? Will our agriculture - after all, we have and promote family farms with a upper limit of the area - withstand competition with large Canadian agriculture? In view of a number of serious doubts, is the government considering [[♪ The bell ♪]] not accept this agreement if its shape is adverse? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club - another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware that there are more benefits than costs due to the introduction of this agreement, that these are long-term agreements which give additional impetus to development on both sides of the Atlantic, as the aim is to reduce almost all customs and non-tariff barriers between the European Union and Canada and to liberalisation of trade in services. But are you - to you, Mr. Dominic, I say - prepared for an action to inform the public in order to address all these concerns? Now it's very simple. You have absolutely all public media. And that is the role of public media to inform the public of such a very important agreement. You can dispel a lot of questions and myths. And such questions that reach me concern, for example, investment courts - it seems to me that we will be able to deal with this - or the fears that European small farms will disappear - I also think that Polish farmers will compete very well in this market. I also have a question for Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish. Mr President, where do you get such calculations that Poland will remain [[♪ The bell ♪]] Genetically contaminated food? I'd ask for specifics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u269	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Marek Kwitek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. We have another person, Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, if the Modern and Civic Platform are lobbying too much for something, we need to take a closer look at it. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] So that I went to a lot of trouble to look at these solutions, and there are a lot of things that actually bother me. I have chosen two of the brightest to present this to the High House. One of them is actually this mechanism related to arbitration courts, which has already been signalled here - investment court system. I am not convinced at all that if even a Polish judge sits there, it will give any protection in the event of the prosecution of the Polish state by foreign corporations in this system an investor against the state. Here, in the opinion of analysts and many of you, TTIP is a greater threat. However, I wanted to draw attention to the second point. Will CETA's trade preferences actually only be available to Canadian producers? If CETA refers to the fact that the company must have so-called. Substantial business activities in a given country, it is clear that the definition of such activity is very broad and is likely to cover the activities of subsidiaries of multinational companies operating in Canada. So they will have the right to sue us for changes in Polish law. So are giant corporations, e.g. The Americans we're so afraid of don't use CET as a back door? This is a very dangerous situation and I would ask that these risks be identified very well and explained to the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u271	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Sławomir Nitras, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u272	Thank you, Marshal. I must, of course, begin with two words to Mr Winnicki, the muse. Although your superficiality deviates from the pattern, I can actually imagine you as one of the museums, Mneme precisely because Mneme cared for or cared for in the Greek tradition, cherished human memories and history. And indeed, your views bring back memories, painful and cruel memories. Because your views, sir, refer to the tragic history of Europe. But in order for history not to repeat itself, Poles and Europeans have created the European Union, and you are without chance. The views you're presenting have gone back to history, fortunately. Question for Mr. Shieldinski. You announced on behalf of the PiS club that you would seek the ratification of the CETA agreement to take place under Article. 90. I'll remind you, Art. The 90th Constitution assumes ratification when we transfer to an international organisation some competences which constitute the competence of the Polish State. This is, of course, an announcement that is incompatible with Polish law, because such a procedure does not provide for such an agreement. But is it really true, Mr Pavlovich and your fellow Members, given even the speeches in this debate, that mode of choosing this mode by you is not a certain route? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the one hand, you say: okay, of course, we will not break the free market, the free trade zone, but you do not really want to enter into this agreement, because you know very well that thanks to your fellow Members, thanks to Mr Kukiz 2/3 in the Polish Sejm, unfortunately we will not get this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u273	Thank you very much. And as it happens, Mr Nitras is, please, Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated... [[You two have an appointment?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...so he can respond directly to the Member's comment without further correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad to be once again an inspiration to Mr Nitras... [[I'm keeping an eye on you.]] ...this time in terms of learning Greek mythology. And history, Mr President, including the history of Europe, teaches us that Europe was dominant in the world, that Europe was powerful when it was built by national states... [[In the '30s.]] ...when modern nationalisms built Europe and when this Europe was not dominated by large corporations, by multiculturalism, when it did not allow millions of Islamic refugees and invaders into its territory. And that is why, sir, this is the future. [[Mr President, this is not a corrigendum.]] On the other hand, on the other hand, on the CET case. It's actually a curious government attitude. Of course, respect for Professor Pawłowicz, I charge for TTIP and CETA, but this does not change the fact that the resolution and the support of the resolution, which is proposed de facto in the form of a support... [[No, come on, Robert.]] ...is against everything you're talking about. [[On the contrary.]] So be consistent if you're telling the corporate dictatorship and globalization in this form... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Can I...]] I didn't mention your name. [[The question was for you.]] ...how she's being offered. Be consistent, don't put your heads in the sand in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u275	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I see a kind of division here, because I don't really know who's against it anymore. The result will be that the opposition will actually be held responsible for CETA. Because in all situations, which are the most important in this parliament, the most important for Poland, takes responsibility for Law and Justice. I see a division, the result is that CETA will take responsibility for the opposition. As for a few agricultural matters, because I come from the 15th district of the agricultural district, I am a farmer myself - a matter of competitiveness when it comes to trade in goods. Will competitiveness look like when we entered the European Union, when we could, in quotes, buy land, I don't know, in England or in Germany? I don't personally know a farmer who bought land in England or Germany. [[They bought it in Germany. You don't know Germany?]] On the other hand, I see how Western farmers bought a lot of land in Poland. [[And where do you come from?]] And that's what it was for now... Please? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Slowly, slowly. Buy, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u277	Members, it was time to ask the question, not to discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u278	Another case, no sales to the East, this anti-East policy... [[You'll ask the Minister of Agriculture.]] But wait a minute. ...leads to the fact that it is the turn to compete, the turn to stand in the way of Western corporations will lead to hunger in Poland. [[Hunger?]] In a moment - but listen - we will proceed to the Direct Selling Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if it ever comes to the fact that Polish supermarkets, German supermarkets and foreign corporations will run out of food, we will have nothing to process. Why? Because there is no head in the Polish villages at all. If a farmer wants to buy a pig, slaughter it and sell it as direct sales... [[The head is in the Seym.]] ...there's no...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u279	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u280	So you're bringing this... [[But there's a bill from the previous term.]] ...and for eight years of government, you've led the population to fall. [[That's not true.]] [[Don't get excited.]] [[No, it's not. There's a bill.]] Easy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u281	Mr President, we're done here. Thank you very much. Barbara Chrobak... [[Don't bring your head into the Sejm.]] Mr President, I can't even hear myself in spite of the microphone. We can't do this. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15, will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] High Izbo! Mr... [[But that's what they're talking about, my fellow Member.]] But this isn't a conversation, this is the time to listen. [[Excuse us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u283	And that's all I'm gonna say. That's the job.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u284	Cecilia Malmström, Commissioner for Trade, announces that CETA will be treated as a mixed agreement, i.e. qualified as an agreement to which Article applies. 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - that is where the competences of the Union are shared with the Member States and irrespective of the functioning of the procedures in Article. 218 treaties will need ratification of the agreement by individual national parliaments. [[Game in the O.R.]] Sir, are you listening? [[Very intense, as you read.]] You're welcome. The Commissioner later notes that the Commission is convinced that, from a legal point of view, once again, from a legal point of view, this agreement is an EU agreement... [[But the question, Madame, is the question.]] ...but he proposes it to be ratified as a mixed agreement, because, as the Commissioner explained, the European Commission wants to show the Member States that they are the owners of this process and take political decisions on this matter. Does this approach allow the European Commission to change its mind at any time and treat the agreement only as an EU? [[He can't.]] Because, according to the Commissioner, this is from a legal point of view. Does this mean that the European Commission [[♪ The bell ♪]] openly applies the law selectively and according to political criteria? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u285	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome. [[You're going, Berta.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to experts, the ratification of CETA will put EU food standards and regulations at risk. There is a serious risk that CETA will lead to the disappearance of small family farms in the European Union and, consequently, traditional forms of crop cultivation and livestock farming will disappear. Poland can be the country that will feel it the hardest. CETA may force the Union to increase imports of Canadian beef and pigmeat and Canadian legislation allows the washing and processing of carcases of beef and poultry in chlorinated water. According to reports, Canada is one of the three largest genetically modified food producers in the world. That's, among other things. maize, soya, oils, apples, fish, etc. Polish farmers and entrepreneurs fear that they will not be competitive with food cheaper, but less quality than their healthy products. Will the government take into account the demands of farmers and Polish entrepreneurs who produce Polish, healthy food? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Głębocki, club Law and Justice, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u288	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Isn't it that it was under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL that the CETA agreement was negotiated between 2009 and 2014? [[Yes, sir.]] Today's dressing up by Minister Sawicki in a feather defender of agriculture is pure hypocrisy. I have recently had the opportunity to speak with Commissioner Malmström, who has made it clear that the European Commission is listening to the voice of the governments of the Member States in the context of trade agreements, so it is self-introduction. The CETA agreement involves very high risks and it can be said that there are also opportunities for the Polish economy. I will only address the issue of standards, because indeed this agreement provides that imported goods placed on the Union market are to meet the standards. It concerns EU standards, e.g. for safety reasons, consumer protection, and that's good news. On the other hand, maybe a little worse news is that the agreement says that in the future each party may propose a technical provision if it considers it equivalent to the other party's provision. Of course, the agreement of the other party is needed and in the future this agreement will also be shaped by the European Commission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have quite limited confidence in the current composition of the European Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz, 15, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a short, but basic, explicit question. I would like to know what anti-dumping safeguards we have, which we should already have prepared when these agreements enter into force, and whether we are preparing other mechanisms to protect us from all that we have now highlighted in the debate: from the prices to be, from the flood of goods. Are we preparing specific scenarios for this when this black scenario comes true? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u291	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Robert Dariusz Mordak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the question whether it is true that food safety standards will be left at the same level in connection with the CETA agreement that we are now discussing, and if so, what safeguards will be applied when importing food from third countries via Canada. I would like to point out that in my district there are the voices of farmers, grain farmers, that we cannot cope with maintaining the standards of imports of cereals and agricultural goods from Ukraine, and we are a border country and there are such problems, so how will we manage if these goods are imported into the countries of the European Union and in no way affect their quality control. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, another question, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by saying that I am moved by the fact that I am observing a coalition that is emerging today, with the exception of a few, several Members of Law and Justice, the Civic and Modern Platform. It's just a pity that it's the ceta deal, not the other stuff. Now let me get to the question. If the Polish Government intends to support the temporary validity of the CETA agreement in the Republic of Poland, I understand that it is based on analyses or studies on the consequences, the consequences of its implementation. Where they are available - I understand that with positive, hard data - studies, analyses, because I believe that the government consciously wants to make this decision. I, as a Member of the Republic of Poland, ask for these studies. Mr Tarczynski, you're welcome. [[Of course.]] Mr Święcicki... His interest has already been zeroed, I understand. Mrs Golbik, I ask you very much for these studies. Minister, I ask you very much for these studies. You got it? You don't? [[We do.]] I'm asking you to deliver them, then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz club15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 20 agreements on the protection of intellectual property as illegal activities indicate so-called. unauthorised circumvention of an effective technical measure carried out knowingly or with a high probability knowingly. Does this mean that the corporation will be able to claim compensation, e.g. from manufacturers of cheap generic drugs? Such a drug, with an appropriate interpretation of the rules, may be considered as circumvention of an effective technical measure. This also applies to all cheap substitutes for branded products. Art. On the other hand, it states that the injured copyright holder is entitled to compensation and that judicial authorities may include, inter alia, any reasonable estimate of the value provided by the holder of the rights, including lost profits. Doesn't the government fear that the protection of intellectual property under the CETA agreement can be a mechanism used for notoriously suing Poland by corporations? Unfortunately, this is a practice known even for existing disputes before the World Trade Organisation. That's how it works, for example. Monsanto Corporation offering GMO seeds. What changes in Polish copyright law will this agreement force and, first of all, will it not discriminate against Polish business entities vis-à-vis foreign corporations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u297	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz 15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When, because it is important, the Polish authorities received a draft contract? When are the details? Is it true that it wasn't until July? Thus, since then, the government has not been able to prepare its position on this matter. Minister Waszczykowski even said that the Ministry is in the process of browsing. Is he serious? Will it agree to the provisional application of an agreement that even our government has not read? And question two. Poland is one of the largest producers of apples, Canada is also a huge producer of apples and they are genetically modified apples and as a result competitively priced. Are there mechanisms to protect our market and our producers from such unequal competition? And, ladies and gentlemen, if that's what you want, eat these modified fruits, and I eat what the Polish farmers and landlords have produced. [[This deal isn't about what you eat.]] That's why I look so good, Mr. Nitras. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Excuse me, Marshal, but in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u299	No, sir, you're welcome. It's just that every once in a while I have to pay attention... [[Well, that's the job of a marshal.]] ...because he's here, right in those benches, too loud. I'm not giving you the floor to correct it. And I would like to ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have heard here several times that as the Kukiz15 movement, we are not freedom simply because we do not support this law. I wanted to be clear: we are a very free movement, only on equal terms - a level playing field for all. And agriculture in Canada and agriculture in Poland are completely different agricultures. In Canada you can use much more plant protection products, much more substances in Europe banned. In Canada we can also use hormones and we are assured that we will not have meat with hormones. Who's gonna check if these animals weren't in the first, second, third month of hormone administration? And I'll tell you what, it's gonna test their service, not our service. We may later try to check here, although at the moment we do not have the right to check the meat that will come from the European Union to Poland, because it was checked there. We have different fuel prices, different health standards, different welfare standards. To my question addressed to the Polish Director-General for Agriculture, Jerzy Plewa, what advantage do we have in comparison with Canada, do you know what I heard? That we have cheap labor. That's our only advantage. Do you still know the Minister's advantage in agriculture other than cheap labour? Because I didn't hear about any other advantages on the agricultural committee, and I didn't hear anything at any meeting. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the speech, in the Modern position, it was very clear whose interests in this Parliament are represented by such groups. Well, not Polish, just EU, [[Applause]] Because in the Modern position it was clear that the CETA agreement would serve the Union market. [[We're a member of the Union.]] We live primarily in Poland, and later we are also a member of the European Union, [[Applause]] But we are first and foremost Poles. [[Applause]] And, Commissioner, when we were on the eve of accession to the European Union, we were also fed with fairy tales, that this will be universal equality, that we will all be equal, that our voices will be the same. Well, I don't think anyone's prejudiced that Warsaw has an equal right today in the European Union with Berlin or Paris. These capitals rule, we can only look calmly at what they impose, but hopefully soon, because the vectors in national countries are changing very strongly. This agreement - CETA - is destroying our agriculture, our industry. It will give a bonus to international corporations that can de facto be superior to national states. We do not wish for such an agreement and therefore my question to the government: Will the government agree to the opinion of those Members who want to stop ratification of this agreement, will it reach for reason and, above all, put Polish interests above international interests? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u303	Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15, asks another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased with what we have heard here - that so many Members have read this agreement. Mrs Golbik, Mr Protasiewicz, all familiarized themselves with these documents. And the truth is what can testify here, among other things. Mr Tarczyński, and in principle I will not do it, but he can say the number of people who have read the document in the classified documents reading room. It was just one person. So you're... [[You weren't either.]] No, ma'am, because I can't be, because I don't have the right powers to read these kinds of documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Tell me who was.]] You were Mr Tarczyński - I must return my honour. Today, I ask you, we are discussing the CETA agreement, where the European Commission, this European Commission, which is so fighting for democratic rights, is breaking the same rules. Why? Because in July this year the European Commission proposed that it apply the mechanism for the provisional implementation of this agreement, cleverly avoiding the need for the European Parliament to agree before applying the national ratification procedures of this agreement. This is the circumvention of the proper democratic procedure requested by the Commission [[♪ The bell ♪]] He really does. Hence my question - 15 seconds. What procedure is envisaged for ratification of this agreement and what will result in the non-ratification of this agreement in the event of the signature of the provisional application agreement? Wouldn't it be that if we didn't ratify this agreement, the provisional application agreement would still be in force? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u305	Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz.15, another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What will the introduction of CETA be? It will be the victory of lobbyists working for Western corporations. I am surprised by the rulers, especially the Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, because on the one hand he assures us of promoting economic patriotism, and on the other hand he lobbies for Ceuta. It's a split personality. I am surprised that they do not learn from their activities in a completely different matter, because some time ago they invited a Western body called the Venice Commission on another occasion, and now they have a problem with the fact that the Venice Commission is imposing legal solutions on us. And what will ISDS be? He's going to be a dictator of Western corporations over what this Sejm is doing, what this House is doing, what the government is doing. You want to give power over Poland to corporations who only think about their business, and every one of us without exception... I won't tell you where they are. If someone has a little bit of oil in their head, then they know from experience that we're not an actor, we're the subject of games or corporate games that are profit-oriented and draining this market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As someone just said here, from a cheap labor force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, when discussing a trade agreement, we can conclude that such a trade agreement, if it goes towards liberalisation, abolishing customs duties, should be beneficial - it should be beneficial for both parties. However, this may be the case under two conditions: firstly, if the economic development of these parties is equal and secondly, if the agreement does not prefer economic corporations. Unfortunately, in the case of CETA and TTIP, there can be doubts as to whether these conditions will be met, particularly in the agricultural field. Indeed, it may turn out that industrial production in Canada, which is saturated with GMO products, will be unfair competition for Polish farmers' agricultural products. Therefore, as a Member and representative of voters, I would like to have a guarantee that GMO products will not enter the Polish market, that it will not be unfair competition for Polish agricultural producers, and that even under the cover of a statement of significant economic activity, American companies will not enter the Polish market - so that it is not so that they will be able to enter the Polish market by failing to define significant economic activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u310	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The issue of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada is emotional. It is not surprising when society receives a conflicting message, from words of astonishment about the benefits involved, to words of total criticism showing very specific threats. In this situation, there are concerns expressed by representatives of different backgrounds. I would like to ask a specific question formulated by apple producers from Świętokrzyskie voivodship, which was asked me during one of the meetings by Sandomierz farmers. Since last year, Canadians have allowed the sale of genetically modified apples. reta will increase their exports to Europe by reducing the import duty from 9% to 0%. Is there no concern that this fact will hit Polish apple producers? After all, they are the largest producers in Europe, and this market has its own defined capacity, so to speak. This is so important that we have repeatedly talked about how difficult the situation is. Can existing rules allow [[♪ The bell ♪]] Protecting the interests of Polish Sadists? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u311	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why does CETA raise objections and concerns? Because it's not a transparent contract. But it must also be said that since the beginning of negotiations in 2009, the Polish People's Party has not taken any action at the level of the Polish Sejm or at the level of the committee or the subcommittee, in order to possibly address this issue, this agreement, for example, from the perspective of the interests of the Polish village. CETA is a deal that has its pros and cons. I'll pay attention to the last few. As for ISDS, it is worth noting, High Izbo, the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee 2015/C322/06, which denies the shape of the international arbitration contained in the ISDS concept. There is also a lack of precise time limit for the completion of provisional application in the case of a prolonged ratification process in each Member State. Questions. Will the Polish Government continue its firm negotiating strategy in order to achieve optimal benefits? Two. Will the Polish Government take action to resolve investment disputes so that they are in line with the Polish legal order, and the inextenso agreement itself was an agreement guaranteeing Polish citizens, farmers and entrepreneurs what we consider important? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u313	Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have one brief but fundamental question. What are the benefits and benefits that will come to Poland after the SETA agreement has been introduced? Because I understand that since we're talking about her at all, the profit balance is going to be higher than the loss balance, because I don't think we're that altruists, that we're going to sacrifice our country in the name of the good of foreign corporations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lion's contract is a contract in which one party has a dominant position, a privileged position, and the other party has to carry out the contract properly. Whatever he thinks he's gonna do, and he's gonna make this side stronger. I have the impression that CETA is such an agreement, and by no means Poland does not play a dominant role here, but rather an executive role, it is to follow some recommendations or a certain will closer to indeterminate, indeterminate groups, about which one can say: big, western corporations. And here my question is specifically to the Minister. Minister, it's really hard to see the positives when it comes to signing the ceta agreement. Because it is really necessary to be an unknown demagogue to say that it is a positive aspect, that we will have access to a wide market within which we can be flooded with cheaper products, but worse quality products. For example, we are talking about food products. So, in fact, Poland according to this information, which is in the media, will only lose on the signing of the agreement, the accession to this NETA agreement. Not to mention that we are losing one of the next elements of our sovereignty, i.e. the possibility of subjecting to private arbitration, foreign disputes of large corporations with Poland. Then, Minister, I ask you to answer a specific question: What will Poland gain? If it does not benefit specifically from the CETA Agreement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So where's the deal? What other agreement is to give us a profit in such a way that it is balanced? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u317	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This agreement, like any other agreement, requires such a cold, emotionless analysis, and I urge you to do so in this House. Like every deal, it probably has its pros and cons, it has its pros, but it also carries some risks. And this agreement is also not devoid of advantages, it is not devoid of the risks that accompany it. I would like to draw attention to an issue that has not yet been raised. The conclusion of this agreement with Canada and in the future with the United States is the strengthening of transatlantic links and this is certainly an important issue from the point of view of Polish interests. This is also worth considering in the discussion on this agreement. The second point is the liberalisation of trade in our areas. Ladies and gentlemen, history proves that our entrepreneurs, our farmers, where the rules of the game were equal, were doing well in this fight, in this competitive space. I think it's okay to be calm here. Indeed, the greatest concerns concern agriculture and arbitration. I went to the trouble of analyzing the history of arbitration. She can calm us down a little, because in case [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only in one case did Poland lose arbitration, and only partially. I have a question for the Minister: What does it look like in the collision with Canadian investors? Did we have such disputes and how they ended for the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u319	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is certainly a difficult task for you today, because it seems very often that Members of the Law and Justice do not understand the principles of the free market. I do not think that Kukiz Members understand this either today. But I hope that in order to take a rational stance, the Government of Law and Justice will, however, defend itself against the voices of the populists of Law and Justice who have just... [[Oh, Member, whoa, whoa. I'm asking you a question for me.]] However, many of the members of the PiS have accused many of the lying things of the ceta agreement. I'd like to ask... I will answer Mr Bakun's question from the Kukiz group. This deal is open. And just referring to all the questions that have been raised today, both from the PiS and the Kukiz15 movement, I have a question - and I think this is a very important issue - whether it will be carried out, assuming that the Government of Law and Justice will support this agreement, an information action, because the problem is that citizens do not know the details of this agreement, do not know what the benefits will be, and I think it is necessary for us to know this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And second question. When can we expect the government's position on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Appeal, Kukiz Club15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u322	Before I ask a question, I'll explain what the free market is all about. The free market is that there are equal rules for all market participants. There is no free market here because the rules in Canada are different from those in Europe, so there is no free market. On the other hand, I have a question, as the rapporteur or the minister is able to say what is the procedure for concluding the temporary term of the agreement. I understand that the only way to stop temporary is simply to introduce this agreement permanently. [[Ratification.]] It is not possible to unscrew the validity of this agreement. Is it? If it is, please explain. [[Vote in the Sejm. We reject and that's it.]] No, that's not how it works. That's the point. As soon as we reject the Sejm, the agreement will continue to apply. [[Ratification.]] That is the opinion of the legislative experts. [[I'll be right back.]] Take a look at the expertise of our Parliament's legislators. [[I saw it.]] The Sejm Bureau's expertise says that there's no way to unscrew... [[Temporarily.]] ...temporarily. This can only be done by restoring the sustainability of this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u323	Thank you very much, sir. Another question, Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The responsible government supports what is strongest on its farm, that is, our agriculture, those departments that are strong, and that complements only shortcomings, what we are not dealing with. At the moment it looks as if we let our cat and tiger into one cage. And I have a question: Will the Polish government promote Polish, healthy products in Canada and how it will protect our producers, will it be able to negotiate limits or phytosanitary checks or procedures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u325	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u326	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I am surprised to see - and I think that all Members present today in Parliament - that in such an important debate on the TTIP agreement and the CETA agreement there is no government representative in the rank of constitutional minister. After all, this is an extremely important contract. If the Prime Minister wanted to come to Parliament, she could present the position of the Polish government. In fact, without compromising the minister's role, we expect a government position, not a sent-off official. We look forward to the position and answers of your Members to the questions, the Members of the Law and Justice, who do not know what their government will do, do not know, and have many doubts, do not know what the President will do, because there is no President either. So in this room, all we can do is talk. Second thing. It has not been shown whether the government of Prime Minister Szydło has made any comments over the last year, and it does not show what opportunities these agreements will give or whether there will be threats. All this is needed for Parliament, with the attention that one Member has read the agreement at the Chancellery of the Secret. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I read a statement once, it was 100 volumes, and then I was at the D.A.'s office. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] I wouldn't want to, and that's why it's already cured me of reading classified files and reports. I would therefore like to say that we expect, as Members of the Government, the Prime Minister's position before voting on this resolution, because this is extremely important, extremely important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u327	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Club Law and Justice, last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. In the draft resolution we are debating today, there is the following provision: According to the Polish constitutional order, the binding of the CETA agreement should take place by ratification with the prior consent expressed in the Act, because the agreement concerns matters governed by laws or requiring laws. Therefore, according to Article. 90. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which agrees to ratify the international agreement in question, should be adopted by the Sejm by a majority of 2/3 in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members and by the Senate by a majority of 2/3 in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Senators. So, Mr. Reporter, a brief question. Does not the mere adoption of this resolution cause at this moment just the need for a discussion on the ceta resolution to take place again? If it were to be carried out, then we would still adopt it in the form of a law. So this is basically just a resolution of intent for us to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u329	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the name of Mr Nitras was invoked during one of the speeches, I would like to ask you. Time for correction - 1 minute. However, I must tell you that the honourable Member has committed himself to keeping the sitting calm and not disturbing at all. [[I won't bother you.]] So we're gonna give him one minute so he can fulfill his obligation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u330	I promise, Your Marshal, I'd love to, and thank you very much. I would like to refer to the words of Mr Romecki, whom I very much like, I value his social activities, and I have known him for twenty years from Koszalin. You've really misunderstood. You appealed to me, you misunderstood me. Mr President, this agreement is a special trade agreement, an agreement setting out the economic criteria for our cooperation with Canada. This deal isn't about what you like to eat. It's not about what you eat for dinner, breakfast, dinner, and then you get sick. Whether or not this agreement will be made, you will be able to eat exactly the same. You will be able to eat what you like, and no one will force you to eat what you don't like. On the other hand, I ask that you do not block an economic and trade agreement with Canada because it is too important to mix this up because of your culinary tastes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u331	Thank you very much. Please take... [[Corrigendum.]] No, sir. Have a seat. There were no comments on this issue that would have to be corrected. [[And you wanted to say what you like.]] Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Dominik Tarczyński and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the questions were addressed to the Minister. I would very briefly like to answer the part of the questions which was addressed to me, through the prism of my own experience in discussing this agreement. Of course, everyone who criticizes this deal... Once again, I am not in favour of this agreement. [[Applause]] [[How?]] Once again, I am not in favour of this agreement. [[We eat what's Polish.]] But I would like to stress that there are a lot of accusations here that you want to make a policy on. I'm very sorry to hear about the lack of transparency. I am one of a dozen Members in the secret law firm that the Home Office has allowed to read the TTIP negotiating documents. Turns out I'm the only one who's read it. There was no one from the opposition who would bother to go, get acquainted with the documents, and then inform their voters, the public opinion, what threats these are. Of course they are, I'm not saying they're not. But if someone doesn't know anything about what's written, what negotiations look like, and doesn't want to bother, even though Homeland Security allows him to, it's pure hypocrisy to me. So don't talk about lack of transparency if someone just doesn't want to move and read the documents. That's one thing. About the transitional issue... The Apostle's message is gone. You're wrong, sir. [[Voice from the Chamber: You are an MEP.]] Is it? There isn't. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, at the gallery, with the media. I understand. It's clear. Mr, Art. 30 CETA agreements say that we have the right to terminate any activity of this agreement. Art. 30 says we are sending information to the secretariat of the European Commission and goodbye. So you don't know the terms of this deal. I repeat, I am not in favour of her. But if we are to talk about the interest of Poland and not to do politics on some topic, then let us be very substantive. Thank you very much. The Minister had more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u333	You're welcome. [[I asked you a question.]] [[Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry, I'll answer. I forgot. I'm sorry.]] Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mr Radosław Domagalski-Łabędzki. You're welcome, Minister. [[The voice in the courtroom: Marshal, you didn't answer my question because you forgot.]] [[Mine, too.]] [[I'm sorry.]] Minister, please approach the speaker and answer the questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u334	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I am very pleased to be able to answer so many questions on behalf of the government. I am very pleased that the NETA issue raises such interest, because indeed the Polish government considers this agreement to be extremely important, creating huge opportunities for Polish companies. But we also see a number of threats. It is not that the Polish government uncritically accepts issues related to CETA. We analyse very carefully, not only in the Ministry of Development, but also in all other ministries, the consequences, the potential risks arising from the adoption of CETA. We are aware of these threats. This is one of the reasons why there is no position of the Polish government today. I also immediately wanted to remind you that the position of the Polish government was not presented at the last meeting in Bratislava. It, I hope, will be ready for the next Council of Ministers meeting. The Council of Ministers has already discussed the CETA issue. All the comments made by the ministries are very carefully analysed. I, too, as Deputy Minister for Trade Policy, am extremely involved in the process of social dialogue. I also consulted on the effects of the adoption of CETA with the very critical environments of the new trade treaties, i.e. the institutions, with non-governmental organisations. I take this very seriously and assure you that the interests and security of the Polish state, including in this economic aspect, safety and food standards, are absolutely priority for the Polish government. I cannot imagine the situation - and there will be no situation - in which these threats will be ignored. We still have time to reach a final position. Not all Member States already have this final position. We want to give ourselves time to have all possible analyses, opinions, including critical ones, analyze and make a final decision which will take into account all interests of the Polish state. I'll answer the precise questions. Is the Polish government going to do an information campaign? Let me remind you that this information campaign has been going on for a long time. We've invited entrepreneurs to consult. Very few entrepreneurs came forward before a major trade fair in Canada, only 10. We have also sent a consultation inquiry to employers' organisations, OPZZ-et,.Solidarity in the course of the Ministry of Development's work on preparing the position of the Polish government. We only got one feedback that didn't criticize as a general rule, it makes sense. It was only indicated to take into account the sensitivity that arises in this public debate. The Polish government takes this sensitivity into account and approaches it with all due care. Also in this process... If ceta is adopted, the Polish government will be active, because it will be an extremely important instrument for us to support Polish exporters in order to exploit and maximise the commercial benefits resulting from its adoption. We will support Polish entrepreneurs in this process of increasing exports to Canada. We will involve our institutions, our WPHI, in the future trade representative in Canada, in order to engage more actively in presenting the benefits to Polish entrepreneurs, all the more so that there is enormous potential. Today, exports to Canada are over a billion euros, growing constantly, we have a huge surplus in trade with Canada - 800 million euros. However, what is important, this structure is very good, these are products produced by Polish companies, these are not internal transfers e.g. Canadian corporations, which increase this export, are only exports in a large part of Polish companies. Can the Polish government still negotiate the content of the agreement? The Polish government cannot negotiate the content of the agreement, because the text of the Act, the content of CETA has been closed since 2014. Although I will remind you what we very much do not like and we have raised this issue in many discussions that in the process of so-called. Legal scrubbing has changed the CETA content of investment disputes and the arbitration provisions have been amended in favour of investment courts. Here, too, I would like to make it very clear that we have a lot of skepticism. on the mechanism of investment courts. We see important risks here and we analyse the consequences very carefully, and we analyse them because we are dealing with a system or institutions that are not there, they are just going to be created, and therefore we are not able to address the current situation, the current functioning, but we need to assess the effects of an investment court, which is not known in practice, is just a matter of interpretation. This is why we have a particularly high level of criticism about this investment court mechanism. Therefore, the Polish government will seek all possible EU fora, so that in the investment court there will be a place for the Polish representative, for the Polish arbitrage, which would influence the development of the practice that will be created within the framework of the investment court caselaw. There were such information or allegations that CETA would create opportunities for Canadian corporations to expand. I would like to say that the Polish government will not accept a situation in which CETA or any other trade agreement, such as TTIP, would in future serve to make foreign corporations even bigger, especially at the expense of Polish companies. But let us remember that above all CETA is not identical with TTIP, these are two different trade agreements of a completely different scale, weight and economic impact for the Polish industry. CETA refers to Poland's ability to increase this trade with Canada, exports, which today is marginal on the scale of all Polish exports. That's less than 0.5%. Polish exports and even less when it comes to imports from Canada. In answer to some Members' questions, we estimate that over the next 5 years the cumulative increase in Polish exports will amount to around 450 million euros, of which about 40 million will be allocated to agri-food products. So that these economic benefits are for the Polish country, while their scale and weight for all Polish exports are still small. But it also depends on our efficiency and on public administration, how the Polish public administration will support Polish companies in this export process and whether it will be able to effectively provide access to knowledge, to the resources that are in our scope, in such a way that Polish companies can use it effectively. As regards the analysis of costs, expected benefits and risks, it is such that these benefits are mainly due to increased exports to Poland, access to services, to public procurement in Canada, but also, as we critically approach the mechanism of the investment court, let us remember that Poland has very large investments made in Canada, investments made in Orlen, KGHM and other companies, that this mechanism will act in the other direction as an additional element of protection for our investments in Canada. I hope that other investments will follow these investments as well. It is not that the Polish government is waiting for the position of the Sejm. The Polish government wants to develop the best possible position taking into account all the threats that you have pointed out, which were also pointed out by the non-governmental institutions. We want to make a decision that takes into account all the opinions. Such a question has been raised, what is the position of the various ministers in the ceta case. Each ministry prepares its analysis. The Ministry of Agriculture - on the effects on food safety, the Ministry of Justice - on investment disputes on the state line - the investor, the Ministry of Digitisation - on data protection, so each Ministry of Development is working, and the Ministry of Development consolidates all these opinions and comments in order to develop the final position of the government, and all these comments are taken into account very seriously. As far as quality standards are concerned, this question has been raised very often - and once again I would like to assure you that CETA does not refer to food standards. CETA does not in principle create a mechanism that would cause the influx of genetically modified food into Poland. As far as food standards are concerned, this remains at the exclusive disposal of the Member States. Of course, I know these arguments, in which this hypothetical possibility of creating a gate for genetically modified food is raised, to make it more accessible to the Member States, but, first, this mechanism is not fully defined, it does not know what it would look like, second, it seems that Poland's interests in this respect, defined as opposition to the flow of genetically modified goods, are also in line with the interests of other Member States. There is also resistance against GMOs in France, and it is also very strong in Germany. It seems that we all have the same interest in the European Union to protect security standards. The European consumer is used to this, he values these high quality standards, and therefore it seems that all Member States will have the same interest. Here it was argued that we do not deal with control procedurally, and that is true, because indeed, for example. The grain imported from Ukraine actually goes through various routes, through Slovakia, to Poland. So this is an argument that we absolutely understand. And we see these threats. Therefore, once again, we do not take this agreement uncritically. We see all these threats. But much depends on us, in terms of the efficiency of our services. And one more point. What a guarantee - such questions have arisen - that Canadian producers using GMOs will comply with their information obligations and will not artificially undermine quality standards. However, we need to have confidence in food certificates, safety descriptions, product descriptions. If there are certificates in the export documentation that confirm the non-use of GMOs, there must be a certain level of trust, taking into account nevertheless the high legal standards that apply in Canada. But of course, it's a matter of checking it out. However, once again, I stress: it seems that many Member States are particularly vulnerable when it comes to the issue of potential risks, and CETA itself does not create a mechanism that would allow food standards to be lowered. We're talking about a completely hypothetical situation, one where corporations, for example. Canadians will find a way to handle regulations. But it is a question of the efficiency of our administration, of the EU administration, so as not to give these companies the opportunity to export GMO products to the European Union countries. Therefore, we strongly oppose the introduction of a mechanism that will give us the opportunity to gain some competitive advantages, including large American or Canadian international corporations. I am talking about the US, because there is such a concern that CETA will be such a gateway for American companies to export or invest in Europe, especially if TTIP is to be frozen for years, and much suggests that the TTIP negotiation process is currently frozen. We don't know exactly how this is gonna go down in the next few years, so that's the risk. CETA defines quite precisely, albeit in a risk-free way, the concept of doing a significant part of the business in Canada. This is not a direct mechanism which would make it possible to easily use Canada as a country of origin in order to export US goods to the European Union. However, such risks always exist and these mechanisms need to be observed very carefully. I will merely remind you that the procedure is that if, at the end of October, there is agreement on the acceptance of provisional application, this will be confirmed by the European Parliament in the spring and then this provisional application will begin. So we're going to have about 3 and 4 years -- it's hard to say exactly, because it depends on the efficiency of national parliaments -- the assessment of the economic impact, the assessment of whether all these threats are going to materialise or whether these circumvention gates -- bypassing, because it's not the use of the mechanisms recorded by CETA -- are really emerging. And then the parliaments of the Member States will be able to take into account the practice of applying the trade part in the field of Ceuta and will take appropriate decisions. If these threats materialize, it will certainly be taken into account. The question was whether the European Commission could change the nature of this agreement at any time. The European Commission cannot do this. The European Commission has indeed stood, at a certain point, and, in principle, until today, is in the view that this is the sole competence of the European Commission. Fortunately, this agreement is mixed and national parliaments will be involved in this ratification procedure. From the very beginning Poland has consistently emphasized in every body that the position on the nature of the contract as a mixed one is a position at which we will in principle insist. And I am glad that this is reflected in the procedure. Can CETA lead to the disappearance of small farms? High Izbo, let us remember that there is no trade on such a scale between Poland and Canada. Canadian corporations don't have as much business as Americans, that's a whole different level of threat. Therefore, given that imports from Canada are on a very small scale - 300 million, for Polish conditions, is a negligible value of imports - even if this value doubles, it will still be a minimum value of Polish imports. Therefore, it seems that there is nothing to be afraid of when it comes to certain systemic or structural consequences for the Polish industry. But let us remember that exports of agri-food products are an opportunity for our industry. This is a very competitive market and in the sense of the distribution model very open. This gives Polish entrepreneurs a chance. Here was the question - whether the Polish government will, for example, support Polish healthy food. Indeed, the Polish government has clearly defined the priorities of economic development in Poland through a plan of responsible development. We are no longer interested in economic growth based on low labour costs or foreign capital. We want to promote Polish capital and we want the strength of the growth of Polish development to be higher wages. Therefore, we are not interested in creating mechanisms that would allow Polish companies to compete on foreign markets only at a low cost or low price. We are interested in increasing this added value, we are interested in promoting, in this case in the agri-food sector, this unique value, which Polish agri-food products have, i.e. quality, environmentality. Polish soils are not as polluted as in Western countries, so we need to expose these benefits, the values we have. And this is also a question of the effectiveness of the Polish public administration, how we will position the brand of the Polish economy. And I assure everyone here that the Polish government is doing a lot in this area, so that Polish companies will also benefit from the fact that Poland will be associated with products that are technologically and qualitatively healthy. In this sense CETA creates such mechanisms to exploit the advantages that Polish companies have, which they can boast about. The question was whether CETA could force the European Union to increase imports of agri-food products, meat. There are quotas. The quota for beef is 45,000. t, for pork - 75 000, but these are marginal amounts on the scale of consumption or on the scale of trade in the European Union at all. That's less than 0.5%. This mechanism set out in CETA does not create risks or risks that could change the structure of the economy, the structure of entire sectors. Therefore, we do not see such concerns, because we are talking about values in trade which are negligible or at least not relevant from the point of view of the economy as a whole. Are there any more... [[There isn't.]] [[There isn't.]] I seem to have answered all the questions. There was also a question about the protection of intellectual property in the context of copyright. I would just like to remind you that the Ministry of Development received a letter from audiovisual producers that CETA guarantees a higher level of copyright protection than the previous regulations. There were questions about apples, for example, but this is the same mechanism. Genetically modified apples will in principle not be able to be exported to the Member States of the European Union. [[Do you hear me?]] The same is true of the guarantee that food products will be hormone-free. Once again, there must be a certain level of trust in certificates. It is clear that we will not be able to control every batch of goods that will come into the European Union, including Poland, but we have a common interest and it seems that the pressure of the public is so great that I find it difficult to imagine a situation in which GMO products could come in unnoticed without information for the public. It seems that this would be raised very quickly and pressure from the public would eliminate such risks. Is it possible to stop provisional use? I would just like to remind you that the acceptance of CETA will also concern provisional use. The lack of consent to provisional application will be clear from the lack of acceptance of CET, so we need to weigh these rations very seriously here. Only, once again, it seems that this period, three or four years, which is necessary to complete the ratification process by the parliaments of the Member States, is enough to assess the threat. An article summoned by your fellow Member. 30 guarantees that provisional application may be terminated in certain circumstances. There were also raised comments on unfair competition from Canadian companies which, for example, would benefit from the advantage economies of scale, which is a powerful instrument in trade policy. In fact, it is such an effect that the possibility of equal competition with smaller-scale companies such as Polish companies could be devastated. Therefore, I would like to stress once again that in the Ministry of Development we are analysing the economic impact very carefully, because if this mechanism were to lead to the fact that organisations such as international corporations, and Poland does not have international corporations, would become even greater at the expense of smaller companies, in any case we would be against such solutions. There is no compromise here at all. There were also questions as to whether the Polish government would stand on the side of the Polish national interest. I assure you that the Polish government and the Ministry of Development treat the issue of trade policy in an absolutely priority way. We will not allow the effects of the solutions introduced to affect the condition of the Polish industry. The Polish government has a very ambitious development plan, which is an absolute priority. We want to improve the quality of economic growth in Poland and no mechanism that could adversely affect this ambitious plan prepared by the Polish government on development issues will not gain our acceptance, but we do not see this as much as some critics do in the case of CETA. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise once again that the SETA and TTIP issues are two different issues. As regards the issue of benefits, there were questions relating to a very precise statement of the benefits for the Polish economy. This is opening up a market, a very competitive market, increasing export opportunities. Such instruments generally fit very well in the plan adopted by the Polish government, also the export development plan. I would like to remind you that exports are one of the pillars of a responsible development plan, so any mechanisms that create better conditions for access to foreign markets, and in this case the Canadian market is very competitive, are positively assessed by us. It is not, I think, so that in the case of CETA there is such a situation that on the one hand we have a huge imbalance due to the fact that we have a dominant entity - Canada, and on the other hand we have a weak entity, namely Poland. First of all, CETA is not a bilateral agreement. It is an agreement between the European Union and Canada. In this combination, the European Union as a whole is a much stronger economical entity, demographically, than Canada, so it seems that there is really nothing to be afraid of. In this case, trade with Poland will be a small part of all the benefits of trade with the European Union. [[Time, time.]] I think I've already answered all the questions, or at least I've tried to answer them. There was another point made by one of the Members that CETA is somewhat geopolitical and strengthens the transatlantic ties. It's true. In general, Poland, as part of the Western world, is interested in creating mechanisms which these transatlantic bonds will significantly increase. CETA is a mechanism, like TTIP as a general rule, but let us remember that these are treaties that face geopolitical issues. It is therefore extremely important to ensure that the interests of medium-sized countries such as Poland are duly taken into account in these processes. The Polish government is trying to defend its interests and in all forums point to the sensitivity that we have in agriculture, in the high energy industry, i.e. chemical, and that's where we're basically in every situation. The last case I have noted concerns investment dispute practice, because it is extremely important to assess the risks arising from the adoption of the investment court mechanism. As regards the practice resulting from the existence of BIT, from the bilateral agreement with Canada, so far we have one investment dispute in the arbitration mechanism with the value of PLN 640 million, resulting from the concessions granted. The dispute is ongoing, so the scale resulting from the application or from the actions against the Polish state is minimal, completely marginal. Finally, I assure you that the Polish government will run an information campaign. We know that this is an extremely important and sensitive issue for Polish public opinion, for Polish entrepreneurs. There are many comments, accusations or criticisms that I do not believe are reflected in the actual CETA records, and therefore indeed this information campaign is extremely needed and I assure you that the Polish government will be active when it comes to information policy. I will remind you that during the last year, the Polish government had no possibility of interfering in the content of CETA, as CETA was definitely closed 2 years ago. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] So that, High Izbo, honourable Marshal, thank you very much for the opportunity to present the position of the Polish Government regarding the questions of Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u335	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u336	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are demonstrations in Europe against controversial free trade agreements with Canada (CETA) and the United States (TTIP). Demonstrators fear that these agreements will undermine safety standards in various areas in Europe. These agreements focus mainly on money instead of putting it at the center of man. 1) Is it true that the signing of these agreements could lead to the disappearance of around 800,000. jobs in Europe, and if so, how will this affect the labour market in Poland? Or, on the contrary, will greater trade result in faster economic development, which is linked to the creation of new jobs? 2) Are contracts a threat to environmental standards? 3) When will the EU's negotiations with Canada and the US end?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u337	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the European Union's Affairs Commission in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act on the Social Insurance System. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda, he will listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees submitted a report on the Government's draft ratification law adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, it was therefore decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016 (the Netherlands Presidency in the Council of the European Union) (print No 712) together with the position of the European Union Commission (print No 714). Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure and the honour to once again present to you information from the activities of the European Union during the six-month Presidency period, in this case the Dutch Presidency, which took place between January and June 2016. According to the announcements, these were mainly four important areas of Union policy, many initiatives which enjoyed intense, clear support from Poland, but also initiatives which did not gain such support and probably will not gain, which later. These four areas are migration and security, employment, the reform of the euro area and climate and energy. To varying degrees, these areas were activated. Certainly, one of the most strategic, important, key elements was the issue of an appropriate European response to the migration crisis and the problems it raised in terms of internal and external security. This was included in the Presidency's plans for obvious reasons, while the importance of this agenda was raised by external circumstances, by events we have seen at the external borders of the European Union. We are pleased to note that it was the Dutch Presidency that successfully moved the emphasis, the European Union's attention from the internal to the external dimension of the European response to the migration crisis. Today we're just a few more steps away. This is completely in line with Polish expectations and Polish emphasis on this matter, because we do not hide that in this matter we noted at the very beginning of the establishment of this office one of the greatest political tensions in relations between Warsaw and Brussels, Warsaw and some of the capitals of the Member States of the European Union. We've made clear progress. In March, we signed an extremely difficult and fragile, multifaceted agreement between the European Union and Turkey. This agreement resulted in a radical decline in the uncontrolled migration movement in the Aegean Sea, which, in turn, has been a huge risk of political instability for many months not only in the humanitarian disaster, but also in the great anxiety of the entire continent. On the other hand, in accordance with the wish of the European Summit, with general Polish support, in line with Polish expectations, we have set up the European Border and Coast Guard in such a way as to meet the Polish expectations and the Polish deepest conviction as to how the institutions should work, including the Community institutions, which are connected with such a fundamental dimension of sovereignty as the protection of borders and security. The regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard was adopted in line with the expectations of the summit at an express rate. Today we are talking about its implementation, the full operationalisation of the European Border and Coast Guard at all those sections of the external border where Member States cannot deal with the restoration of proper control for objective reasons. On the other hand, unfortunately, we have seen a great deal of commitment to continuing the reform of the asylum system, it can be said, in line with the old logic of the European Union's conduct, in line with the logic that brought about a very serious political crisis on the ground of the relocation system, which was adopted as a type of pilot project in September 2015. This case continues, just as every important issue in the European Union lasts for more than 6 months. We're at the next stage today. I think the Polish position on this issue is very clear. We want an efficient way of managing the external borders, we want an effective EU asylum system, but we do not agree to any interference, any external impact on refugee or migration policies, which should be fully the responsibility of the Member States and should not be shared in any way, even indirectly, with interference or with the responsibility of the Community institutions. In the area of security, work on strengthening the European dimension of the fight against terrorism continued, but with greater enthusiasm due to the very tragic events that have taken place in Europe. On the one hand, this is a very important submission concerning more intensive data exchange: intelligence, data from services. There is a dilemma ahead of us as to whether these data should primarily serve the Community institutions, or whether they should serve the Member States, whether cooperation in this extremely sensitive area should be based more on cooperation between States or more on the Community institutions. As far as employment is concerned, we have been faced with the continuation of an extremely broad and fully supported digital agenda by Poland. None of the legislative aspects ended during the Dutch Presidency, but the work was expected to take place at the right pace, with the right intensity. We see in the Digital Agenda not only the necessary element of updating the shape, mechanisms of the common market, but also the condition that the market for services and the market for the exchange of goods is really complete at European level. We have a serious problem with that today. In particular, the services market has great difficulties to be a functional market. This is one of the aspects of the Community market which is the most underdeveloped. The Digital Agenda will certainly allow it to be implemented more easily in the European Union. On the other hand, with regard to initiatives which had much less support from the Polish government, the Dutch Presidency decided to continue and intensify the work on the Posting of Workers Directive. This House has also decided very well to raise the allegations of subsidiarity and proportionality of this legislation, which was proposed by the European Commission before the previous act was implemented in this area in the EU. In our deepest conviction, the Posting of Workers Directive, which has unfortunately made some legislative progress during the Dutch Presidency, is a directive which is not so much intended to protect the social rights of posted workers - there is no controversy between us, this government is extremely attached to the protection of social rights, labour rights - its deferred, and in fact the main objective is to introduce a very serious injection of protectionism in the services market, on the Community labour market. The Dutch Presidency is also the launch of a highly theoretical but important discussion on the future financial framework of the European Union and thus preparations for the ongoing mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. In this case, thanks to the Ministry of Development, Poland has recreated a group of friends of cohesion. It is one of the fundamental dimensions of Polish policy in relation to the European Union budget, alongside agriculture. We have managed to create a very clear Visegrad Group document on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. We are an active participant in the discussion on European added value, on efficiency, on new financial instruments in the budgetary perspective. We are open to discuss any reform of the multiannual financial framework. One thing is certain: we do not want this reform to be a pretext for eliminating or weakening treaty policies, and cohesion and agricultural policy are one of these. We are certainly not prepared for new challenges, which should also be implemented by the European budget, to be met at the expense of those policies which are crucial from a Polish point of view. Running a little alongside the period we are talking about, the current state of play of the debate on how the multiannual financial framework should look after the mid-term review seems to meet Poland's expectations that this reform should be cautious and not take place at the expense of those elements of the European Union's budget, which are important from the point of view of Poland and Central Europe. As far as the euro area is concerned, there is little progress here. We haven't had any breakthroughs. In particular, no progress has been made with regard to the sharing of deposit liability with regard to joint protection, a common guarantee for deposits. The Dutch Presidency focused on the logic contained in the five presidents' report - strengthening macro-economic conditionality, strengthening the European Semester, which seems not to have been controversial at this level of generality. In particular, there was no controversy in Central Europe, which still seems very attached to clear fiscal rules also at Union level. But a lot of very intense, very important things were happening in the area of energy and climate from the Polish point of view. We still have an open discussion on the renewal of the reform of the decision on the transparency of energy contracts. We still have an open threshold problem from which contracts should be notified and possibly checked for compliance with EU law. On the other hand, we also have an open discussion about the mechanism itself and the point at which the agreements concerned should be assessed by the Community institutions. We have an open process of reform of the Security of Gas Supply Regulation, although at the time we have seen significant progress in this discussion. The discussion on the shape of regions, which should jointly and severally bear responsibility for possible crises in the supply of gas at the external borders of these regions, is not closed in particular from a Polish point of view. Of course, a significant part of the attention was given at that time to preparations for ratification from Paris, which has accelerated, also in the Polish Sejm it is visible in today's agenda. It has radically accelerated the moment of the breakthrough in China, the United States and India in terms of their willingness to enter quickly, but this goes beyond the Dutch Presidency. In the area of climate policy, we have seen significant progress, although not meeting Polish expectations, in shaping new rules for the ETS market, a new market for CO2 emission allowances. We have seen clear progress, although still not meeting our expectations, in those sectors of the economy which are not covered by the ETS and which are covered by the EU thresholds, the EU's ambition to reduce CO2 emissions. We are also not fully satisfied with the compromise on reducing other dusts: nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides. I am talking about the NEC directive, in which Poland managed to overcome a radical reduction of ambition, in particular, in terms of reducing ammonia, which could possibly impact agricultural production in Poland, although the levels of reductions and levels of EU ambition in this matter are still far too high. This is the reason why we expect that the final shape of costs and the final distribution, the burden sharing of all climate policy, both in the ETS and in the non-ETS, will be further negotiated so that these costs and burdens are expressed in a much more balanced way than we are now being offered. To sum up, the time between January and June was certainly intense. Holland didn't waste any time. Not all initiatives were in line with Polish expectations, but many of them were definitely so - I spoke about them in particular at the beginning. Following Brexit's experience, it began in principle also under the Dutch Presidency, today we expect Brexit's experience to be read so that decisions that could be taken even more quickly and simply, by alienating the interests of certain groups, regions, Member States of the European Union, are taken far more consensually. I am thinking, in particular, of decisions on the new asylum order and the new rules on the European Union's climate policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask that Mrs Izabela Kloc speak in order to present the reasons for the draft resolution. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to present the report for the second time and present a draft resolution of the Sejm on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016. Information from the Council of Ministers on Poland's activities during the Presidency of the Netherlands was adopted by the Committee for European Affairs on 5 July this year, and on 6 July it was forwarded to the High House. The rapid transmission of information by the government to the Sejm allows us, in Parliament, specifically in the European Union's Committee on Affairs, to discuss the events of the Presidency almost immediately after its completion. The government's information, as in previous years, was prepared as a result of cooperation between all ministries and central offices, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for its presentation. It is already the 25th half-yearly report of the Council of Ministers for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland from the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the successive periods of the Presidency. The Commission for European Union Affairs considered the information on 19 July 2016. The information on behalf of the Council of Ministers was presented by the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański. This is the first information for which the current government is fully responsible. The Minister presented the course and achievements of the Dutch Presidency through its priorities and key issues from Poland's point of view. The Dutch Presidency focused on the following issues: migration and international security, innovation and employment, stable European finances and development of the euro area and climate and energy policy. Migration cases have been an important issue and are still an issue for the next Presidency. In the first half of 2016, migration was one of the most important topics. In March, an agreement was reached with Turkey to reduce the migratory pressure towards Greece. The issue of reform of the asylum policy system is still on the table. Poland, however, has a negative assessment of some of the European Commission's proposals. Another aspect of migration policy was the establishment of a European Border and Coast Guard. The Dutch Presidency has set out a very ambitious plan to adopt a regulation within 6 months. The Commission for European Union Affairs dealt with this regulation in February this year, in April the Sejm adopted a resolution on the migration policy of Poland. The second priority of the Presidency, namely innovation and employment, was focused on the internal market of the European Union, taking into account its digital dimension. The Digital Agenda received Poland's support, but the Posting of Workers Directive was not supported and both the government and the Sejm strongly opposed the proposed solutions. Another challenge was climate and energy issues from the point of view of Poland's interests. Work continued to fully implement the Energy Union and thereby strengthen the European Union's energy security. Work on the signing and ratification by the Union of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change of December 2015 was crucial for Poland. Last week, on Friday 30 September, the Council of Ministers introduced a draft ratification bill. The result of the British referendum was a very important subject, albeit not planned. In July this year, when we discussed the report at the committee meeting, the Union had just started preparing for the UK's exit process from the European Union. The position of the 27 Member States adopted on the day following the first European Council stressed that until the end of the United Kingdom's membership of the European Union, all rights and obligations should be fully respected. It was crucial to emphasise the lack of agreement of the 27 Member States of the Union to deal selectively with rights and obligations in the common market. As President of the European Union Committee on Affairs, I would like to convey to the High House that the Dutch Presidency is also a time for the active work of the European Union Commission during the Dutch Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Commission held 55 meetings. It should be noted that the committee is one of the most busy parliamentary committees, has examined 431 European Union documents, has adopted 10 opinions, including 2 opinions on EU documents. In the case of one of the documents relating to the posting of workers, the committee found that the draft legislative act was not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Sejm then adopted a resolution which declared the project incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission also held discussions at its meetings on trafficking in human beings in the digital age, the European Commission's health and food protection priorities with the EU Commissioner for Food. health and food safety, recommendations to Poland in connection with the implementation of the 2016 European Semester, progress in the implementation of the Energy Union. The Commission also gave an opinion on many candidates for posts in the institutions of the European Union, including the appointment of Jarosław Starzyk as a representative of the Republic of Poland to the European Union. The Commission has also adopted an opinion in which it critically commented on the proposal for the selection of members of the European Parliament in the general direct elections. Finally, I would like to mention a positive opinion on the declaration proposed by the Marshal of the Sejm: security, borders, renewed institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u341	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm decided to listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, a club called Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The period of the six-month presidency of the Netherlands in the Council of the European Union deserves deep attention, for two main reasons. Firstly, much has happened in the European Union at the time, unfortunately not always good. Secondly, what should be noted with satisfaction is the time when Poland finally returned to the European game, finally sat down at the table, finally talking openly about important matters for us. This idea will be further developed by referring to further developments that were planned or unplanned during the Dutch Presidency. Indeed, such an unplanned event was the settlement of the British referendum. However, it is worth to return to February 2016, when the government made a significant contribution to the development of a compromise solution in an area particularly important for Poland - in the area of social benefits and freedom of movement of people. It is worth noting that Poland opposed the indexing of child benefits and the possibility of temporarily suspending the right to benefits for citizens of the European Union and the United Kingdom. In this regard, the government has been successful, unfortunately the referendum in the UK has cancelled all these arrangements. But what is important, with great determination, the government continues to fight and announces that it will seek to protect the rights of Poles in the Islands after the UK has left the European Union. The issue of migration and international security was an important issue for the Presidency. The March agreement with Turkey has already been mentioned here, but I would like to emphasise once again the government's attitude, which has consistently pointed out that the assessment of the involvement of individual European Union countries in this problem should take into account the differences arising from objective premises and differences in past experience and ways of implementing asylum policy. The key demand of Poland is to maintain the principle of voluntary participation in the activities of the European Union, rejecting the compulsory mechanism of redistribution or relocation. He's being held up by the government all the time. The efforts of the Dutch Presidency on the external borders of the European Union - such as the establishment of a European Border and Coast Guard, the introduction of systematic border controls on persons exercising their right to free movement under Union law - should be appreciated. Here it is worth noting and appreciating that the Polish government has provided expert and hardware support for operations coordinated by Frontex and EASO in the framework of joint action to combat the migration crisis. The Dutch Presidency has also made some efforts to combat terrorism. It has led to the adoption of an initiative aimed at improving the exchange of information in the area of justice and home affairs. The issue of development policy and humanitarian aid was also an important subject of the Presidency. The European Union Trust Fund for the stabilisation and prevention of illegal migration of the population in Africa has been launched. Poland has signed a founding agreement and a donor contribution certificate of EUR 1.1 million. Poland also declared financial support to a regional trust fund, in response to the Syrian crisis, amounting to EUR 3 million. It is worth talking about this out loud, because often there is an argument that Poland is not sufficiently showing its solidarity in the area of humanitarian problems or the migration crisis. The best proof that this is not the case is, for example, the indicated financial resources involved by the Polish Government. Unfortunately, the priority of the Presidency was not the Eastern Partnership, but this was raised by the Polish government because it was a key issue for us. The most important event on this subject was the meeting of foreign ministers and six Eastern Partnership countries in Brussels in May. In the context of the southern neighbourhood of the European Union, it is also worth mentioning Polish engagement. Our allies were fulfilling the decision on military support for the coalition's efforts to fight the Islamic State - four F-16 fighters and a land component, about 200 soldiers, for exploratory and training activities. In the area of the common security and defence policy, Poland actively participated in the development of the newly designed CSDP instrument, so-called. an initiative to build capacity for security and development, promoting its use in support of the European Union's eastern partners. An important element, unfortunately, which is a problem for not only Poland, but many countries of the European Union, is the directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. But here also Poland has shown a proactive attitude. Parliament, which is worth noting, has mobilised other parliaments, we have launched the so-called initiative. A yellow card. A separate issue is how, unfortunately, today, these initiatives of the yellow card are treated by the European Commission. This, of course, also requires some reflection. On the other hand, this directive will have to continue to evaluate the committees either way and Poland will continue to oppose the negative provisions of this directive. An important element of the Presidency is energy security, including, of course, energy security in our country. On 16 February, the so-called. the winter package for security of supply. It fulfils the commitments of one of the two priority pillars of the Energy Union for Poland: security of supply based on the principles of solidarity and completion of the internal energy market. The second element on which we have also spoken out loud in the European Union is the issue Nord Stream 2. In March 2016, the Prime Ministers of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Romania and Croatia sent a letter to the President of the European Commission calling for concrete action by the European Commission, informing in this letter of the expected negative effects of the pipeline on energy security, also calling in this letter to ensure that the project is compatible with European Union law, in particular with the third liberalisation package. In conclusion, this Presidency period has been a very difficult period for Europe. Under these difficult conditions, the government of the Republic obtained, you can say, as much as could be obtained. He spoke decisively on matters which were crucial for Poland and in which it was necessary to protest, but he also supported those issues which were important and required solidarity for the whole European Union. That is why we are in favour of accepting information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is no doubt that at the moment the European Union is in a crisis and there is indeed a great deal of problems that the European Union has. Navigation at such a difficult time is extremely difficult, especially after Brexit. Most importantly, this signal, which most Member States have sent to the world, is a signal of consolidation, that Member States have to deal with this problem together - not questioning the competences of the European Union, not attacking the EU institutions that have done nothing at all. And as soon as the Minister worked hard, we later had the reaction of the superiors - either the Prime Minister or the President of Kaczyński - who questioned this credibility developed during the negotiations. And all the time, in fact, during these six months of the Dutch Presidency, unfortunately, we have been dealing with attacks on institutions and undermining their competences, even today. I wonder what that's for. Why, for example, are they so quick to ensure that there is no support for Donald Tusk for extending his mandate in the European Council? Why is it good for President Kaczyński to suggest that Donald Tusk is actually a criminal? 'Cause if she's gonna be a coroner's witness, it means somebody's gonna be pregnant over him. I'm asking if it actually builds capital. I know that the Minister has nothing to do with this, but the problem is that in such difficult times political capital must be raised in the European Union and not the competence of all EU institutions must be undermined. There is no really effective way to defend the Polish state, especially if you do not have partners, because you have almost stopped meeting in the format of the largest Member States, I have not heard about the meetings of the Weimar Group, and in fact you are only talking about Visegrad, which is very conflicted with the position presented by the Polish Government and the Hungarian Government. At the moment, credibility, credibility in the crisis is crucial in order to defend the state's right, activity and constructive approach to integration. Minister, you know very well that in order to be able to participate actively in these difficult times of debate, you need to have some political capital. I do not see this political capital - if I look at the Presidency's programme, I do not see any positive initiative of the Polish government in terms of migration, in terms of employment, in terms of the euro area, when it comes to finally the digital market - even there, even the previous government was fighting very hard about the Internet Security Directive, and here all of this is missing. The decision in the Council on this directive was taken under the Dutch Presidency. In fact, with regard to all the problems facing the European Union, namely migration, the issue of terrorism, Poland did not have any positive answers to what was happening. I remember how criticized the previous government's moves were. If you look at the decisions that have taken over the last six months concerning pollution, greenhouse gases, transparency of contracts or posting of workers, and finally at the beginning of the debate on the budget, all these decisions are going decisively towards a direction that is not beneficial for the Polish government. I do not see any special achievements on the side of the Polish government - if they are, I would like to hear about them. I would like to ask about the Treaty cases, because the government has made it clear that President Kaczyński has made it clear that there is a need to address the issue of treaty changes. I ask: What treaty changes, specifically what changes the Polish government would like to propose, even though all Member States are saying at the moment that this is not the time for treaty changes? With whom might such changes be carried out when the EU institutions are being tested? Where do you have allies to do this? Today, the Minister was very clear about the need to bring matters back - in an interview for the Republican Government - into the hands of governments. Is this an attempt to question the majority vote? You also said you weren't afraid of fragmentation because you don't see that kind of threat. Unfortunately, such a threat exists in the current policy of the Government of Law and Justice, because we know that there are temptations to try, in view of the behaviour of some Member States undermining the competences of the European Union, to create a small Union, which would be a notabene suicide for the European Union. I just wanted to ask you two more things briefly. Firstly, on the issue of migration - the Minister spoke about the fact that the European Union has no competence to deal internally with migration. This is obviously not true, it is enough to read the Treaty of Lisbon, even the Deputy Minister of the Interior has made this clear. And the second point, the question of the budget, because indeed these proposals that are now appearing on the table - the Commission and the debate in the European Parliament - are going in the wrong direction. Unfortunately, it may end with Poland losing some of the money that has been negotiated in this budget. What's the government gonna do about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u345	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Caesar Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My speech is addressed to Minister Waszczykowski, because he is at the helm of Polish foreign policy today, and from this point of view I would like to thank Minister Waszczykowski warmly. I would like to express my sincere thanks for one important thing that I will come back to, but first I will describe it, because it has an impact on the development of democracy in Poland, it has a fundamental impact on the demonstration of good and bad, it has a fundamental impact on the change in the nature of the dispute from political to legal, it has a huge impact on the issue of the Constitution, and it is undoubtedly the greatest achievement of Minister Waszczykowski. This achievement is an invitation to Poland by the Venice Commission. This is undoubtedly something that Minister Waszczykowski succeeded in. And even if you regret it, don't regret it, because the good things really don't need to be regretted. Minister Waszczykowski once said, "High Sejm!" Polish foreign policy regains its subjectivity, which has been missing for the last few years. These are the words of Minister Waszczykowski. And it has to be made clear that these days, after these six months, they sound like a joke. Today Minister Waszczykowski conducts a Polish foreign policy based on arguments, insulting allies, strategic support of the country or strategic cooperation with a country that has just left the European Union, strategic cooperation with a country that strongly sympathizes with Vladimir Putin. In general, you are conducting Polish foreign policy on the margins of the European Union. And often among PiS politicians it is said that Poland finally got up from its knees. We have to say this: Poland rose from its knees and fell on its face. I have no doubt in my mind that that is exactly the case. Diplomacy is troubleshooting. Okay, let's look at it this way and ask the question: What problems did Minister Waszczykowski solve? Is Poland's position in the European Union better or worse than six months ago? Is Polish business easier or more difficult than six months ago? Did Minister Waszczykowski improve relations with any country e.g. In the last six months? Yes or no? Did he solve any problem regarding our national interests, e.g. the Nord Stream issue, the refugee issue, the procedure initiated by the European Commission? I have the impression that the language of diplomacy Minister Waszczykowski studied in some other cultural circle, I do not know exactly what, because I do not think that in any cultural circle insulting is the essence of diplomacy. Offending others, insulting your own - in general it's some idea I don't understand. If we wanted to sum up Polish foreign policy, also in the European Union, in a comprehensive way, we could do it something like this: the European Commission - bad, the Venice Commission - bad, the European Union - bad, Germany - bad, the European Parliament - bad, Schulz - bad, Tusk - bad, Merkel - bad, Obama - bad, the Council of Europe - bad, McCain - bad, Orbán - good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u347	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stanis... Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u348	Thank you, Marshal. Please, not Stanislaw.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u349	I got better right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u350	Minister! In fact, without any unnecessary emotions. I don't envy your role because you look a little bit like a pier defender in Sopot and your defense is sometimes just doomed to failure. I don't envy you about that. I don't want to do you any favors, either, but I want to use this moment to tell you something. Imagine such a situation, for example. The Pole is the head of the United Nations, president of the United Nations. Can you imagine such a situation that he comes to Poland, visits Poland and then does not take place a joint briefing with the Polish Prime Minister? Can you imagine, for example? this situation - I know it is not easy - that Jarosław Kaczyński is the President of the European Council, [[Joy in the Chamber]] and Prime Minister Donald Tusk is Prime Minister and President of the European Council Jarosław Kaczyński is coming to Poland? Can you imagine the situation that Prime Minister Donald Tusk is meeting him because he has to, and then doesn't hold a press conference with him? Why, gentlemen, because I'm also talking about the Prime Minister, you're not using... Do you really think that Poles, but also Europeans [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do they take it well that Poles who perform the most important functions in the European Union and the Polish government cannot cooperate? Is our partners, this is one thing, but do you think Poles take it well? Why don't you take this chance, that outstretched hand? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u351	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr. Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, the summary presented to us by the Minister and the previous Members shows one thing - the Netherlands was indeed unlucky when it included this presidency. It has come to this, one can say, an honorable role, unfortunately, in a rather difficult time for Europe. But let us return to our beginnings in the European Union. When we as Poles joined the European Union as Poland in 2004, our position in Europe was to be very strong, and it was even said that our voice was to be equal to the voice of Germany. We then adopted and, in principle, allowed ourselves to be imposed on the Treaty of Lisbon. And it was the previous Presidency, the Luxembourg Presidency, and the Dutch one discussed, that showed us what real strength we have in the European Union. Contrary to the opinion of most of our fellow countrymen, Berlin's policy, the policy of the Herzlich willkommen, has imposed immigration quotas on us, i.e. our real importance in the European Union has been verified very quickly. Europeans, Europeans who have the freedom we have, the multi-culti policy, even a few years ago, would not believe that there would be a need for troops on the streets of European cities to protect European citizens. Under the Dutch Presidency, unfortunately, but the soldiers from the streets of Europe's cities have not disappeared and Europe is still in chaos. An excellent example of this is the anarchy in the northern ports of France, the best example is Calais - an example of a harmful policy under the Dutch Presidency. We can move on. The drastic examples of Nice, Brussels, Paris are evidence of the compromise of multicultural policy, supported by Brussels salons. Under the Presidency of the Netherlands, the creation of an EU border guard was accepted and a political agreement was reached at the European Union summit in June. Without assessing the validity of the appointment, however, we are assessing the exceptional delay of this decision, an extremely late response to irresponsible decisions to open up to African and Middle East migrants. The impact of setting up an EU border guard will still come to our assessment, this is still a young project, a young formation, so that we do not yet have the competence to judge them at the moment, but certainly this response, as I said, is very late. It should also be noted that, just a year ago, Hungary, which you mentioned, the good Hungary, was criticised for having taken a stand-alone democratic decision to protect its borders and not admit immigrants who are trying to violate those borders. Under the Presidency of the Netherlands, which is another failure of this presidency, the free British decided to leave the European Union. London started a debate not only internal but also general. And what could we have heard in this debate? No more euro-waste, no more Brussels dictation over national states. We do not want such a euro area, we also want our own national currencies. We don't want a multi-culti dictation, we don't want such a terrible immigration policy. These points are very much, they were clearly indicated by London. And what did the British say in the Brexit referendum? They said they want a Europe other than Berlin, they want a Europe different than Brussels sees. They want to catch up with the world economy as British, but they are unable to do so within the European Union. Has Brussels launched a debate on reforms? Of course not. This is another of the failures recorded by Brussels and the Dutch Presidency. Another example, a referendum in the Netherlands on Ukraine's association with the European Union in April, during the Dutch Presidency. The referendum initiative was a citizens' initiative and showed a unique gap between the official position of the Government of the Netherlands, which the Union-Ukraine association supported and the majority of the population in the referendum that was for them. So as usual, elites and corporations against nations and citizens. These are the standards of the European Union. Finally, I would like to stress that the Luxembourg Presidency did not stop Chancellor Merkel's disastrous policy and that the Dutch Presidency merely continued it. In conclusion: What was the Dutch Presidency like? It has not stopped the immigration crisis in any way, it has not launched reform processes to stop the British from staying in the European Union, it has not in any way stopped the stagnation of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u353	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u354	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present my position on information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016. At first, however, I would like to refer to Mr Szynkowski's statement, but unfortunately, he is no longer there. Mr Szynkowski, what table did you sit at? I think we live in other worlds, because I think you've sat down at the table of European outsiders, not the table of European leaders. The last 10 months of Poland in the work of the European Union have been the worst in 9 years. Today we have another debate in the European Parliament about the situation in Poland, and it is not at the initiative of Polish parliamentarians, which in the accusations of PiS Members is called complaining of Poles to the European Union, but of parliamentarians from other countries who are anxious to see what is happening in Poland under the rule of PiS. It will soon be a year of government for Prime Minister Beata Szydło, so I think it is time to reflect on the effects of the new strategy in relations with the European Union. The basic question should be asked: Were drastic changes in Poland's relations with key EU countries needed? We used to have good contacts with the lead, now we only have good contacts with Hungary, and everyone knows what their economic situation is. Of course, the Government of Law and Justice by means of national television has already declared success many months ago. Poland got up from its knees, whether someone likes it or not - the national media said so. The possible criticisms of world leaders are, of course, not heard by the PiS government. President Clinton, a friend of Poland so far, according to the ministers of the current cabinet is only an underinformed person. Thanks to the media coverage from Mr. Jack Kurski's stable, we were able to see President Obama praise the government for strengthening democracy. It was the only medium in the world that so received the words of one of the most important allies of Poland so far, but it seems that for present leaders, the enchanting of reality is not a major problem. The whole world sees what is happening in Poland, and even national media, very professionally creating a new reality, will not disrupt this message that goes into the world. The most important thing is the goal, and the goal sanctifies all means. It is a pity that the only way it is achieved is by an innovative approach to diplomacy on a global scale. The current policy of dialogue has been replaced by this, quoting a classic, worse sort. Another result of a good change in foreign policy is the break-up of negotiations on the purchase of new Caracal helicopters for more than a year. Turns out the government broke off negotiations without any objective reasons. This shows how serious you are, ladies and gentlemen, frivolous in foreign policy. Minister Macierewicz, will the Polish army have new helicopters? Because, as soldiers say, those helicopters owned by the Polish army should attach yellow license plates, such as on cars. Unfortunately, it can't be done. The policy of escalating conflicts, because to do so I would bring a non-diploma of Minister Waszczykowski and others from the team of the Prime Minister, resulted only in a decrease in our credibility. The fact is that our relations within and outside the Union have deteriorated. Washington, Brussels, Berlin, Paris, Kiev and a dozen or so other partners have started treating us, and I'm going to euphemistically describe it with some distance. We are becoming an outsider of the European Union. It's not a problem - it seems to be the Prime Minister. Poland has new allies - the Visegrad Group. A year ago, a group of these countries sometimes supported us, today it is our only ally, although it looks much worse now in statistics than it used to be, it is about supporting our actions. Meanwhile, the environment around the Union is becoming increasingly uncertain. The candidate for President of the United States with high ratings casts doubt on NATO's ally commitments. Chaos in the Middle East, including Brexit, the migration crisis, Turkey clearly moving away from the West. Inside the Community, the Polish government has an impact on the process of disintegration of the European Union. We are well aware of how unfavorable this direction is for us. We are the last country in Europe for which the idea of a Union of different speeds, namely ultimately a non-solidar and weak Union, would be beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to wake up after sunny vacations. The NATO Summit in Warsaw is unfortunately one of the few real successes in the last year. Too bad it's mostly in the organizational layer. I was very sorry that both in the cockroaches and in the words of the heads of state there was concern and lack of confidence in the direction chosen by the government. After almost a year, it can be seen that the main objectives of the strategy so far have been completely abandoned, and especially that Poland is to be a credible ally in a stable Euro-Atlantic governance. We need to work on these difficult times that are ahead of us for the coming period of real strategy and take important foreign affairs from the hands of non-graduates. I am not afraid to say that Minister Waszczykowski's current strategy is a fantasy. They have not only spread through irresponsible policies of colleagues from the British Party of Eurosceptic Conservatives or the revision of excellent relations with our main economic partners so far. Building a strong alliance between Central European countries is not a new concept. This is very pleasant to the ear, but unrealistic. The truth is that Visegrad states agree only on one issue with Poles - caution about migrants. On any other matter - not to mention Russia, Ukraine, energy policy or the euro - differences are huge. The partners from Visegrad clearly say that if they are to choose between Warsaw and Berlin, they each point to the other capital, the stronger partner. It is not exactly that we have no common interests with any of these countries. However, these, observing our weakness, are now looking towards other partners. If we remain with the current strategy developed by the non-diplomatists, we will be permanently out of the European game. Of course, the President, the Prime Minister or ministers will continue to meet with European leaders, and national television will continue to present these increasingly rare meetings as breakthroughs. However, they will be, as has been the case for a year, barren and without specific arrangements. Why is this happening? No one who knows how Europe and the world are decorated is able to take us seriously. I partly understand that, in fact, our country's policy is not directed to these leaders, but to the needs of populist internal policy and to take over power in every area of life. But you cannot be fooled, this policy will not affect Poland's further relations with the top of the European Union. The modern does not agree with such a European policy. That's why we're against this information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Bejda made a club statement in writing. I would like to ask you, Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Circle of European Parliamental Democrats. Are you an MP? There isn't. Please, Mr Ireneusz Gains, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016 (the Netherlands Presidency in the Council of the European Union), print No 712. The document submitted is the result of the fulfilment of the obligation of the Council of Ministers to inform the Sejm and the Senate of Poland's participation in the work of the European Union, in accordance with the principle of control of the legislative authority over the executive authority. The first part of the information presented focuses on the course of the Dutch Presidency on priorities and key issues from Poland's interest point of view. It should be assessed that the achievements of the Dutch Presidency in the four key areas of the presidency, i.e.: a comprehensive approach to migration and national security, growth- and employment-oriented innovation, sustainable European finances and the development of the euro area, and a far-reaching climate and energy policy against existing problems and threats, are far from sufficient. In this context, doubts arise as to the efficiency and efficiency of the European Union's decision-making mechanisms and the direction in which the European Community is going. Although the government's information describes a breakthrough event such as Brexit, the analysis of causes and effects seems superficial, the more so that a large group of Poles living in the UK needing to safeguard their social rights and, above all, to safeguard their personal security in the face of recent national attacks. The government should prepare for negotiations with Great Britain, taking into account this extremely important aspect. The document under examination does not answer the question of the shape of the European Union when the UK comes out of it. We are familiar with the vision of the founding countries of the Union as expressed in the agreement "Strong Europe in the world of uncertainty," signed by the Foreign Ministers of Germany and France by Steinmeier and Ayrault. The drifting European Union sets an alternative for Poland that is difficult to resolve - to join a central superstate or to take a position in the periphery of the Union. During the XXVI Economic Forum in Krynica-Zdrój, a solution to this dilemma was sought. During the session, Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki stated that Poland supports the unity and stability of the European Union, but in the long term a balance is needed in the Union between harmonisation and defragmentation and the reduction of inequalities, because if inequalities grow, the crisis will be uncontrollable. The Free and Solidarni Circle shares this thesis. The consequence of the lack of a vision of strategic policies within the European Union itself from the point of view of Polish interests is the search for long-term solutions to the migration crisis. Divergences between the EU countries on this issue remain, positions are extremely different. Europe should be a catalyst for innovation and employment, but it is increasingly stuck in endless agreements between countries and the growing Brussels bureaucracy. Thus, the European Union is starting to lose its momentum in this area, increasing its distance to global innovation leaders. It is difficult to accept for success the Council's recommendation to set up national productivity councils, which was adopted by the Council of the European Union on 17 June 2016. First of all, the recommendation may remain unanswered by the Member States. Even when national productivity councils are set up, it is hard to believe that they will have a strong impact on the growth of innovation, on the skills of workers and on the rigidity of labour markets and product markets, or on the further improvement of the Economic and Monetary Union. Similarly, the work towards the full implementation of the Energy Union, thereby strengthening the European Union's energy security and increasing the efficiency of the functioning of the internal energy market in the European Union from the point of view of the benefits for final consumers, is extremely inadequate. Detailed solutions in this area determine Poland's place on the energy map of Europe. The government should therefore develop a precise position on this issue. Part two of the government information contains a broader description of the actions undertaken in the various thematic areas and draws attention to the demands and initiatives aimed at implementing Polish interests, in respect of both key projects that positively affect the development of the country and the elements with potential risks. The document submitted provides objective information on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016 and therefore the Free and Solidarnia Circle is in favour [[♪ The bell ♪]] information provided by the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u357	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Circle of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Thank you very much. Minister, I'll begin by commenting on your speech. And I have to say, as always, it was factually correct. The speech by Mrs Kloc, Head of the European Union Commission for our Sejm, our Parliament, I would say this: verbally and statistically reliable. There's nothing more I can say about this speech. So why, since I'm used to complimenting the Minister's speech, not to mention the fact that it was correct in substance, but that it was interesting, it was interesting, this time I didn't say it? Probably for the same reason why I can say, surprisingly, that a representative of the PiS present in Mr Szynkowski's room is present. You, too, must have been really surprised not only by today's speech, but also, I think, this entire six months, and in fact even longer since the appointment of the government and of you as Minister for European Union Affairs. Because really speaking after this period in the summary of the half-year of the Dutch Presidency, that Poland has sat at the main table, is, I would say, respecting Parliament and the place where we should use balanced words, at least surprising. You know very well that this is not the main table, you know very well that Poland is wandering the outskirts of the European Union through such a policy, not you, Minister, above all your boss. I will skip his recent speeches, which are only a dot over the responsibility of the Polish foreign minister, who speaks outrageously about Polish women. I'm not gonna say he speaks in a way... [[Sexist voice.]] ...sexist, though that's the right word. I'm skipping that. Maybe he actually has a high level of testosterone in him, so to speak, and he feels like a real male. But it is simply outrageous, as may the Polish government minister about Polish citizens say such words. Well, that's outrageous. But I'm gonna say one thing. I'll get back to European affairs. On January 29th, here from this stand, he gave such an exposé concerning foreign policy, which he developed at a press conference in room 101, i.e. in rooms for public media speeches. He criticized the Eastern Partnership there and said that this is a policy conducted under the dictation of Germany, which is detrimental to our Eastern partners, and especially for Poland. It has been more than six months, including the time of the Dutch Presidency in the European Union, and we are looking forward to even basic information about whether there are any new assumptions, any idea, anything, even though during this six-month period we have discussed a document called the European Neighbourhood Policy Review. Point two. After Brexit, the Prime Minister, not only the Minister, talked about us coming out with some new initiatives for reform of the Union, reform of the treaty. You still can't see it, you can't hear it. You can't even sense what the direction is, what the idea is. We discussed this, Minister, two weeks ago at the Parliamentary Panel meeting. The future of the European Union. There's a huge risk, they said to the previous speakers that if we start getting into the treaties, we're gonna let the genie out of the bottle and that genie out of the bottle, and we're not gonna get into that bottle anymore, and this genie is gonna tear down the union we know, which might make you more upset. than us, and there will be a Union of two speeds, where Poland, with this policy, will certainly be at this second speed, and I fear that it may also be in the third. Finally, the summary element of the six months is this unfortunate, unfortunate resolution, which Mr Szynkowski a.k.a. Sok is a co-author, questioning the decision of the Sejm and the government of the previous term on the compromise on migrants. First of all, the ignorance of the law and of the treaty, in which it is clearly written: Article. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 3 gives the right, at the request of one of the EU countries which has become the object of a mass influx of illegal immigrants, to request the European Commission to adopt extraordinary measures. These measures were adopted by the Commission. They were then disbanded in the Council and the Polish government, so to speak, achieved a compromise, the only possible in those realities. Adoption of this resolution, proposing it was an expression of incompetence, lack of knowledge, but also, I would say, irresponsible [[♪ The bell ♪]] and stupidity, because what does criticizing decisions that were made during the previous term of office lead to? We're gonna turn into a Seym that's gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u360	...deny the decisions of the Sejm's earlier term of office? Nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of your fellow Members like to subscribe to the questions? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With regard to the Dutch Presidency, which has distinguished itself from the very intense nature of the migration policy and agenda and internal security strategy, I would like to ask you a question on the creation of the European Border and Coast Guard, which is to start operating in the autumn. The EU's plans provide for the transformation of the Warsaw-based agency. Frontex borders into a new, stronger Agency for European Border and Coast Guard. In the context of the crisis situation in the south of Europe and confirming the need to amend, seal the external borders of the European Union, Poland has provided expert and hardware support for operations coordinated by Frontex and EASO in the framework of joint action to combat migration pressures for one of its priority actions in the last six months. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the migration crisis. In view of the above, I would like to ask the question: What costs will the creation of the European Border and Coast Guard bear the budget of our country and when will it begin to carry out its tasks within the territory of the Member States of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Duda put the question in writing. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. One concerns the Netherlands itself and the referendum held there on the European Union's Association Agreement with Ukraine. The result was negative and, therefore, although the referendum is only consultative, there was a deadlock in the approval of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, it was the last country. Is Poland doing something to solve this impasse? Where are we on this case? Are we looking for solutions here? The second question is what you mentioned, namely work on fixing the euro area. There are opinions in the world press that this area needs special solutions, a separate Vice-President of the Commission, who will coordinate fiscal policy, separate votes in the European Parliament concerning the euro countries, a separate budget to support the zone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Euros. Is there anything going on about this? Are there any jobs ordered? Are we not in danger of creating a hard core of the euro in the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u365	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u366	Thank you. Minister, I have a sense of dissonance. Reading the report, the government you have presented, I feel that you have supported all the Council's initiatives. I did not find any critical words in this document regarding the policy pursued by the Presidency, by the Council. On the other hand, if you look at the titles of European, Polish newspapers, and really if you listen to the statements of the leaders, it is difficult to find any element from which you verbally agree. Do you not think that this dissonance - I do not know what is really more important, but it seems that the statements shape awareness - does it not seem to you that this dissonance, when the administration, when we are calmly looking at the strategy of the Commission and the Council... [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, it is difficult not to agree that this fits into the strategy or in the priorities of Poland or what is beneficial for Poland, and this rhetoric really spoils the harmonious possibility of realizing our interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u367	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u368	Don't you think it's dangerous? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u369	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. [[Standing ovations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you about finance, about the future crisis, about the theoretical crisis and about Deutsche Bank. Was there a discussion in committee during this Presidency? Is that a problem you see? Because again in the international press, many experts are alarmed that more black clouds are coming over Europe. There used to be Wall Street, Lehman Brothers, now Deutsche Bank. We have a new Presidency now, is Slovakia, did she get that cuckoo egg? I have a question: Has this problem been discussed in the previous six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u371	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Konrad Szymański to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u372	Certainly such 6 months for the work of the European Union is a time when many processes can be seen, which last much longer. They started earlier, they're still going on today. This debate is an expression of the fact that, in most cases, we have not touched on issues which have been the subject of legislative work, in the strict sense of the European Union's work. We have touched rather large, aggregated phenomena, political processes. As for the reform of the Union and what happened after Brexit - I did not touch this problem because it is difficult to call it part of the Dutch Presidency, although it was an event that happened just then - I would say this: it is not appropriate that after this crisis, instead of understanding it thoroughly and understanding the reasons why there was such a far-reaching crack between the European Union and the very coldly calculated nation of British people... It is not that it is enough to say that we need consolidation, because it sounds as if we are prepared to simply defend the EU status quo, which has greatly affected the crisis situation of failing to adapt Britain's membership conditions to a renewed, reformed European Union. Of course, I appreciate the European Union's ability to look at itself critically. At the time of negotiating the February agreement, it was, but it turned out to be too shallow and definitely late. Therefore, if we say consolidation, we should clarify exactly what we mean. This is certainly not a consolidation of the institution. Of course, bearing in mind that the UK itself has said a lot of unrealised words about Britain's membership of the European Union, we cannot overlook the fact that the EU institutions also had to have a part in this. The EU institutions must have forgotten something in some way, noticing that they have led to a situation in which one of the Member States is leaving, creating a very dangerous precedent for this organisation, because we all know today that the British case does not have to be isolated, that the mechanisms that led Britain to make such a dramatic decision need not be purely British and that it is not certain that they will not be repeated in other countries. On the contrary, we see that a certain way of thinking, for example on the role of the single market for the economies of the Member States, in one or the other country - it does not apply to Poland or any Central European country with certainty, but it does apply to many countries - a certain way of seeing the common market is very, very similar to this mechanism, to looking at the common market, which has led a large part of the British opinion to decide to leave the European Union. Today we need reform more than consolidation, certainly more than consolidation of the EU institutions. This reform, if not deep enough and if not in time, will lead the European Union to further crises. We wouldn't want that. The crisis of the European Union, the defragmentation of the European Union, perhaps even somewhere in the longer term, would certainly be bad news from a Polish point of view, because - while maintaining a proportion - the European Union is an important element of the unity of the West, and we certainly care about this unity. How do we see the problem of the reform of the European Union? The reform of the European Union is certainly not just a treaty. On the other hand, it is difficult for me to take note of the point that, at the very beginning of the post-brexit reflection on the future of the Union, we should impose artificial taboos, artificial restrictions on the debate on the future of the Union, excluding discussion on the Treaty amendment. This is a strange assumption, given that in a crisis situation we should rather care about really open, really profound reflection on what went wrong. I have the impression that some of the voices that have been voiced in this Chamber - in different tones, sometimes in a tone of fear, sometimes in a tone of mockery - and which this element of the Union's deep reform excludes, does the European Union a favour, defending today's status quo, defending the Union as we have today: a highly imperfect Union, a Union that is far from the public's growing group of Member States of the European Union. This does not apply to Poland. Defending this status quo, we're zooming in on this organization's decomposition scenario. If we really want this organization to be well and to be renewed, we must care about reform. And here we come to a much more political issue. What role do we anticipate for our country in this process? The reform process of the European Union will take place one way or another. Do we want to wait for someone else to write the agenda for the reform of the Union, or do we want to wait for someone else to write a proposal for a treaty reform, or do we want to be a country... [[We're waiting on the project.]] ...who will be at the top of this process, a country that will be in the vanguard of this process, a country that has just been expected here by some to solve this problem? I have the impression that Poland after Brexit... But also before Brexit. Let us remember that Poland was one of the main co-authors of the agreement on the new rules for the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union, which started much earlier. After Brexit, Poland is also one of those countries that urge Member States to think really openly. The defence of the status quo is the worst thing that the Union can do today. Do we have partners? I've heard a lot of words here, very often infernally publicistic. To be honest, I am disappointed by this layer of discussion, because I feel that the Sejm should be a place that deserves to be treated seriously - each other, but also this place. I understand that such discussions can take place on Internet forums, they can take place here and there, but really the Sejm should be a place of seriousness. I heard a lot of words here, let's say, publicist, maybe even guylike, about what this map of Europe looks like today, with Poland under the rule of a new office. In fact, I find it difficult to find any confirmation for these publicist, more or less successful pictures. I would like to remind you that in the case of the Weimar Triangle, in recent months we have had consultations in the format of consultations of ministers for European affairs here in Warsaw, with consultations of foreign ministers, finance ministers, development ministers and agricultural ministers. We also had a lively parliamentary dialogue in the area, the format of the Weimar Triangle. The six largest Member States of the European Union are being consulted tomorrow. In Warsaw a few days ago the Polish-Dutch conference ended in the Utrecht Conference format, regular. Less than two weeks ago, representatives of all non-euro area Member States met in Warsaw. This is an important aspect of the future of the Union because, with the UK leaving the European Union, we will have a new political situation, and we will have to find new guarantees for non-euro area countries in the common market. Finally, the Visegrad Group. There was no doubt here that it was working, because I think it is a unique example of a very deep consolidation in terms of EU issues, not only in front of the summits of leaders, but also in front of sectoral councils. But there were many such suggestions of the inefficient, in my opinion, which would indicate that the new office is looking at the map of Europe, focusing on some narrow fragment of Central Europe. It seems to me that after these few months - regardless of what we read in the declarations and whether we read with more or less understanding the words of the government - we can refer to the facts. And the facts are that, in addition to intensive consultations in the Visegrad Group, regional, in a group of countries much wider: from Tallinn to Zagreb, whether in terms of security or in terms of EU policy, we also have a fact such as the summit, a series of regional consultations in Warsaw before the opening of the Bratislava Process, which consisted in consulting the Visegrad Group with Chancellor Angela Merkel, who came to Warsaw to talk with the entire Visegrad Group. Although it is difficult for me to find a trace of isolation, it is difficult for me to find at least a trace of such an image which appeared here very often, to my surprise - I thought that this matter would pass after the first months of office of this office, but it is still in this House - it is difficult for me to find confirmation for this caricature picture. Of course, this is a well-known rhetorical method to create a caricature of your opponent, stick it with clumsy fingers and then struggle with it effectively. You do it quite often, but I have to say, it's not funny anymore. [[Minister, these are publicist remarks.]] It's not a method that moves us forward in any way. Look at the facts, stop looking at your own image of this policy, please focus on, for example. on this report, and then you will see - thank you for this remark - that Poland is a participant, it is part of the solution, it is part of the solution in dozens of important cases for Europe. [[But there's a dissonance.]] So your image, which focuses on selective, because I think that, however, very selective, reading newspapers and selective listening to radio and television, unfortunately does not withstand the test of strength with this document. Please note this in the next debate. I would like to propose an agreement with the Sejm that, in the next debate, we will focus on the facts, on the statements that are here, and on the documents that are filed here. [[You're asking us to abstract President Kaczyński's statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u373	Quiet, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: That's the idea of sticking caricatures, because the state's declaring all these accusations in the paper first... [[We?]] ...the isolation, the lack of ideas, the lack of positive solutions, the decomposition of the Union, the anti-EU moods, the anti-European, and then you read what they just wrote and say: disaster. Well, I'm sorry, it's too easy, it's too easy. [[Applause]] [[Are you listening to your boss?]] Really, it does not agree with the Polish Seym to use such simple maneuvers. Such simple maneuvers can be used at meetings if the audience allows. I have the feeling that this audience shouldn't afford such simple, shallow maneuvers. Returning to the issue of reform, if you were to consider that Poland devotes all its political attention only to one day to surprise all its partners and throw another 200 pages of the European Treaty on the table, and that this is all we are interested in, you would be right. It wouldn't really be a very well-used time, but I honestly don't see a trace of that. Poland has a very divisive attention, as a quite large country with an educated administration, with quite educated European thought, although it had moments of such, say, a limit in terms of the breadth of this reflection on the future of this project, but Poland, in short, with this divisive attention, is now able to effectively demand a reform of the political agenda. You have proof of this in the Bratislava Declaration. That declaration wouldn't look like that. This was not a declaration, I will remind you, the Visegrad Group, because the state reacts badly to it, it was a declaration of 27 Member States - outside the UK - who met to plan the European Union's reform process. I should also dare you to think that you can do this. These countries met, adopted a declaration, which is largely created under the influence of expectations, also sometimes of opposition, I admit this, the opposition, unfortunately, [[Applause]] it's these negative emotions from Poland. This is a good declaration that shows more or less the way, a road map, which should be addressed by the European Council in October, December, by spring, right? If you see this document, you will find that Poland is not only able to talk about the Treaty and to remind you that it is not possible to set up an artificial taboo for the revision of the Treaty, but is also able to reform the European Union's political agenda here and now. But that's not the end of it. The reform of the political agenda, the change of political plans, is one thing, but we will not allow some Member States that may be comfortable in the current institutional state of the Union to deny Brexit's experience and forget that we have somehow come to Brexit together... [[I'm sure you will, Minister.]] ...that together we have mechanisms in the European Union that have produced such a level of alienation of a truly cold-minded nation that this has led millions of people to vote against membership in the European Union. These moods are present in several other large Member States. We need to ask ourselves why this is the case, why this organization, this institution works so that a group of people grow, hundreds of thousands more people grow up every year who say: I am sick of this organization, I feel that no one here listens to me, that my interests and beliefs are not actually present in the political process of this organisation. Something needs to be changed, and I assure you that something needs to be changed for this organization to finally come out of the crisis, from the deadlock in which it was found. That is why we reject the self-censorship which has also sounded here in this House, which tells us that we cannot talk about institutions. No, institutions are not a sacred cow, institutions can be changed, institutions can be designated a different treaty order, other roles can be assigned to them, they can be reminded of their basic roles. It seems to me that a Member State with an internship such as Poland should have enough self-confidence to speak freely on this subject in order to give an open opinion on the state of affairs in the Union today, today, not only in terms of political agenda, not only in terms of institutional status but also in terms of treaty change. If anyone asks if this means that we have doubts about the majority vote, it's here in the courtroom, of course it is. Unions - The European Union, historically speaking, is not the first union in Europe's history - they last as long as they are representative of their participants and majority voting leads to this. An excellent example of this is September 2015, when existing competences were used. Unfortunately, it was used without political imagination, considering that if you can, you have to do it. The majority voting on matters that are politically important, the overly bureaucratic sense of those who are preparing these decisions, all of them, these algorithms, are a temptation that can lead this organization astray. This could lead to another Member State feeling that their interests are alienated in subsequent political seasons. This is not good news if we really want to store the Union on a large scale. No Member State should feel alienated in the European Union by such or other decisions that are easier to take when we have a majority voting instrument at hand. It is certainly not that we want to discuss the existence or non-existence of such or other competences, such as migration and refugeeism, which are expressed in the Treaty, as it turns out, so unclear that they are quite vulnerable to interpretations by the legal services of the committee, which are competent to do so. The mere fact that a given competence exists does not mean that it must be used. Sometimes the existence of an instrument creates unnecessary risks. It happens that the very existence of an institution leads to the situation that it is used at the worst possible moment. This is what happened in this case, and so it happened in September 2015. Therefore, without touching the issue, in this particular case the square issue, we have one advice to use these instruments more carefully, but to think twice about the political consequences of certain decisions, because it is possible to bring about, to all of us, the European Union, another political crisis that the Union may not survive. There was a belief, I think, that the dominant in the first years of our membership, that the Union is safe, that this is a well-oiled mechanism, which must only grow, that the linear increase in competence must be something obvious, that it is only a matter of pace and our understanding of this process, because sometimes we have problems with perception, but if we understand and press this pace, it will be all right. That's not true, there's no such automation. The Union is in our hands, dependent on our imagination. If we today do not draw serious consequences from the post-brexit crisis and critically think of our own role, the role of the EU institutions, the role of Brussels, the role of individual capitals in this whole mechanism, then nothing from the process of getting out of this crisis. I'm afraid there won't be. As far as the Eastern Partnership is concerned, two people have pointed this out. The Eastern Partnership, let's say the most delicately, is not in the best condition today, and it is certainly not thanks nor the fault of Poland. You, I think, are able to see that Poland has done nothing to weaken the Eastern Partnership. The Eastern Partnership has been weakened due to a lack of concept when some countries covered by this programme have ceased to be interested in cooperation for such or other reasons and have not been prepared for a situation where the European Union's entire political attention - for objective but sometimes subjective reasons - moves to the South. This is why the Eastern Partnership is having a very difficult time today. This does not mean that Poland looks at it with satisfaction and waits for this project to collapse. That would be a little too easy. The interest of the Eastern Partnership is expressed in the fact that Poland is today a key country in designing the renewal of this project, the renewal of the neighbourhood policy in the eastern area. Meetings of Foreign Ministers of the Eastern Partnership and Poland are a manifestation of this. The activity of Minister Waszczykowski in the Committee, in the Foreign Affairs Council in this area is a manifestation of this, and you can easily check it out. On the other hand, the challenge from a Polish point of view, I hope that it is still common point of view, is certainly that today objective political circumstances have made it easier to talk, it is easier to finance projects in the South. You have to do something to make the East attractive again. The additional difficulty, the double difficulty, is that some of these countries are no longer interested in continuing this project. I mean countries like Armenia or Belarus. Poland does not stand passively against this fact. Poland is one of the key actors when it comes to opening some form of contact with Belarus. Poland is a key partner which proposes that in the Eastern Partnership, which has so far proposed one scenario for each country, the same typical one, which we continue in Georgia and Ukraine, find other methods of cooperation for countries that are not ready to adopt such a highly advanced degree of cooperation. Without Poland we would not have a decision today, we are one step away from those decisions when it comes to speeding up the visa-free process for Ukraine and Georgia. That's all about the Eastern Partnership. About the specifics. The European Border and Coast Guard today has a budget increase of EUR 30 million, and this is not the whole scale of the budget's growth, as it will grow, and this is significant, when the institution will be operationalised. Operation, i.e. increasing not only the local staff, which, I hope, will continue to be, despite the enormous delays over the past years in negotiating the location agreement, could have been in Warsaw, but above all, the forces that are in place. Poland is not waiting on this matter. Poland is one of those countries which are above average involved in protecting the external border on the Balkan route - the Moldovan, Hungarian, Bulgarian and Slovenian border. Recently, we've had several missions like this, and we've kept them. As far as the Bulgarian-Turkish border is concerned, this is the latest problem. He is of interest to the European Council. Poland is also very active. This sort of illustrates what was mentioned here in this Chamber, that Poland not only increases, builds up its humanitarian capacity, but also engages in the protection of the external border, which is an expression of our European solidarity as regards the migration crisis. This is the type of solidarity we consider most appropriate on our part, no other. As far as the Dutch referendum is concerned, this is the problem that was created in the Netherlands. I'm afraid there's not much we can do about it. Poland is certainly not ready to categorize or amend the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine in any way because of this incident. We expect solutions that will enable this agreement to be applied, but it is really about overcoming the crisis that is internal, Dutch. As regards the euro area, I mentioned the consultation that took place in Warsaw relatively recently. We are fully aware that it is absolutely essential for countries outside the euro area to overcome this crisis because we are highly integrated economically and for the coherence of the European process it would be better for the euro area to come out of its serious crisis. This does not mean that we are facing the prospect of a very easy way out of this crisis by creating an institution. If it were so simple that the euro crisis could come out with the creation of one or another institution, the next president, the House of Parliament or something like that, it would probably be worth it, because it would be a huge success. Unfortunately, the euro area crisis is much more endemic and this is due to the huge imbalance that has arisen since the introduction of the single currency within the limits of the economic and monetary union. In short, the promise of economic convergence in this case has not been met radically and this imbalance, which causes that there are countries that today are unable to handle their public and sometimes private debt, and those countries that do not have this problem at all. This imbalance causes a political wedge within the euro area. In fact, the political and economic synergies between countries outside the euro area, from Central Europe and Germany are much easier, much more imaginable, much more accessible than the political and economic synergies between the north and south of the euro area. [[Let's go to the euro.]] So, before you start to fear this kernel based on the deep integration of the euro area, I suggest you take a look at the circumstances that led to the fact that in 1994 it was the first time that the possibility of creating a European kernel was pointed out, to the circumstances that for some reason did not lead to this scenario and did not take a step forward. I think these are all the questions that have been asked here. Anyway, these are all my answers to these questions. I hope that in six months' time, when we can talk about the Slovak Presidency, we will be able to focus more on facts and documents, to a lesser extent on rather publicistic pictures that do not move the Polish debate on the European Union forward. And it is a pity for such opportunities, because we do not have many opportunities in the Polish Parliament to talk seriously about the European Union, so I think we should all take care of this time. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on information about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January-June 2016. The document prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs contains comprehensive and detailed descriptions of Poland's participation in projects and decisions taken at the highest levels of the European Union. These topics will be presented which are of utmost importance for our country and for the European Union. This is due to the limitation of my speaking time before you. The extensive study contains all the aspects raised in the first half of 2016 during the work of the Council of the European Union chaired by the Netherlands. Four areas have been set as the main objectives during this Presidency: - a comprehensive approach to migration and international security, - an innovative European Union geared towards growth and employment, - stable European finances and development of the euro area, - a far-reaching climate and energy policy. During the Presidency of the Netherlands in the Council of the European Union already at the beginning of the year, there was a problem which was called the so-called. Brexit, that is, the wish for Britain to leave the European Community. The talks between the representatives of the European Council and the authorities of the United Kingdom have not brought the solutions expected by the Union, which resulted in a national referendum in which the people voted in favour of leaving the European Union community. This is very important news for our country, because today over 700,000 live in the British islands. Poles. The citizens of our country who live, work in the UK, and those who are just about to leave there may encounter problems closely related to the UK's appearance from the European Union. The first could be the problem of finding work, as EU law requires the governments of all Member States to treat workers equally. Social benefits will not have to be paid to immigrants under current rules. The Ministry of Science and Higher Education will have to face the problem of student exchange or teaching staff. Studying at British universities only in 2013 took over 5 000. Poles. Higher education in the UK will at best be reduced. Returning migrants are estimated to be 300,000. Poles. This will affect the inevitable rise in unemployment and the increase in the amount of benefits paid. National policies should be kept up-to-date and financial reserves and activation programmes for unemployed people. An important issue is the problem of immigration, which has been observed for several months, from the south-eastern directions. A well-designed strategy is the desire to help countries that, due to too few border guards, are unable to fully control illegal border crossings. Poland, being the border between the European Union and the countries from beyond our eastern border, has responsibility on its shoulders for the security of not only Poland but also of other European countries. Therefore, there should be no information in the media that Poland is safe and safe. Such assurances can reduce citizens' vigilance at a time when attacks are carried out in countries that have been considered safe to date, such as Belgium or France. With regard to the overall decisions taken in January-June 2016 in the Council of the European Union, the Polish People's Party is partially satisfied with the resolutions adopted there, only the fact of the construction of the pipeline raises doubts. Nord Stream 2, which, in our view, is contrary to the principle of solidarity between the Member States of the European Union. The signing of a series of contracts by the largest energy companies with Russian Gazprom may be of direct importance to preserve the energy security of our country. The new gas pipeline running on the bottom of the Baltic Sea is led in such a way that it completely bypasses the borders of Poland. In this situation, the jamal pipeline may no longer be needed and the taps will be twisted. Poland took part in the first phase of the discussion on the proposal on the harmonisation of the use of the 470 Support for this project will allow the development of wireless electronic communications in Poland, which will really affect the development of the programme of digitization of our country. An interesting and worrying fact is the active participation of Poland in the work for the protection of personal data. The involvement in this project should be translated into national actions, and this is not the case. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the law passed by Law and Justice on the rules of surveillance concerning operational control and billing was partially incompatible. As far as environmental policy is concerned, Poland is very active in all the work undertaken by the European Union. Poland's views and arguments in negotiations with the Dutch Presidency are in line with the demands of other countries. We have been able to negotiate, in line with our expectations and opportunities, levels of reductions in emissions of harmful substances to the environment. A positive aspect of Polish-European Union policy is the balance of financial accounts. It is clear from the data provided in Annex 1 that Poland received by far more money from the European Union's cash register than it paid to it. The achievement of the net beneficiary's position of EUR 3.17 billion shows a good use of the European Union's ability to raise funds. This can be seen in almost all cities and towns which, thanks to external funding, have the most opportunity to develop. The Polish People's Party welcomes the information prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A comprehensive, more than 100 pages of the document describes all aspects that have been worked on in the Council of the European Union. Each topic contains information about the stage at which the individual projects are, as well as comments on Poland's position - whether it supports or submits comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to research, Polish entrepreneurs are posting to 300,000 abroad. employees. This is because of the competitiveness of the Polish labour market vis-à-vis many other markets in the Union. However, individual Community countries are introducing new regulations that are striking, inter alia. in Polish employees. The information provided shows the draft amendment to the Posting of Workers Directive. The European Commission has already rejected the opposition of 11 parliaments. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What steps does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plan to take in relation to the new regulations introduced by Germany, France or Hungary and Italy, which are striking at the interests of Polish workers?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u376	I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (print No 880). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present to the High House a draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 880. [[I don't know if it's an honor.]] [[You should be ashamed of yourself.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Poland contains regulations concerning the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. However, in order to fully define the powers and responsibilities of these judges, constitutional provisions are not sufficient. For this reason, the legislator first developed the rules on the status of judges of the Tribunal in the Constitutional Court of 1997 and subsequently in the subsequent laws of 2015 and 2016. The legal solutions relating to this matter have been included in addition to the rules on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Court, and thus in addition to the issues which, in accordance with the article. 197 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland was to be governed by the law. The report of the panel of experts on the Constitutional Tribunal set up by the Marshal of the Sejm shows that the system of the Constitutional Tribunal could regulate at least three normative acts in parallel. First, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland to a wider extent than it does today. Secondly, the Act, but indeed limited only to the organisation and mode of work, not the Constitutional Court Act. Thirdly, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, especially as regards the procedure for the selection of judges of the Tribunal, since they are elected by the Sejm in accordance with the Constitution, and the question of the procedure for the selection of judges does not, after all, cover the organisation of the tribunal. That's what the expert team report says. The drafter took into account the position developed by the panel of experts for the Constitutional Tribunal and concluded that the status of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal does not fall within the category of the organisation, or even more so in the procedure of proceedings, as also stated by the Constitutional Tribunal in the justifications of its decisions. In the explanatory memorandum to the case of 9 March 2016, K 47/15 reads, quote: The procedure for submitting candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is undoubtedly not in the mandate to determine the procedure before the Tribunal in the Act of Procedure. As indicated above, the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is an integral part of the procedure before the Sejm and no stage of the procedure takes place before the Constitutional Tribunal. It cannot, however, be accepted that this issue is one of the matters reserved for the Act on the organisation of the tribunal. Such an extension of the interpretation of the concept of "organization of the tribunal' is not confirmed by the other provisions of the Constitution, which contain an authorisation to act as a body. In particular, it is excluded by Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 7 Constitution, in which the organisation and principles of operation of the National Bank of Poland and the detailed rules for the appointment and cancellation of its organs were treated as two separate areas of statutory regulation. These spheres cannot be identified. End of quote from the Constitutional Court's justification. This allows the projector to assume that it is appropriate to create a separate bill concerning the status of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The importance of this procedure is reinforced by the fact that, in order to determine the status of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, the constitutional provisions are insufficient, which may hinder the exercise of powers by members of the constitutional body of the State. The authors of the project stress that the position of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal differs from that of judges of general courts, administrative courts or judges of the Supreme Court. Despite some similarities, the function of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal has such jurisdiction that his status should be regulated separately and, to the smallest extent possible, refer to the proper application of the provisions of the Supreme Court Act. However, since the criteria for the selection of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal are identical to those of the Supreme Court, there is nothing to prevent certain standards laid down for judges of the Supreme Court taking due account of the different features of the function of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal from being adapted to this Act. In particular, judges of both authorities cannot be distinguished in terms of their qualifications and characteristics, which they should have not only as candidates for the office concerned, but also in the exercise of their constitutional and statutory duties. In particular, it is about the requirements for legitimisation of a certain level of substance, impartiality, which guarantees independence, as well as an adequate state of health necessary for the exercise of office. The above mentioned circumstances have decided that the group of Members has proposed to regulate the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in a separate act in a comprehensive manner. However, references to the duties and rights of Supreme Court judges have not been completely waived. In this way, the proposed law is in line with the setting of a high standard concerning the status of judges of the highest judicial authorities in Poland. This is the implementation of the recommendation of the panel of experts to the Constitutional Tribunal, who considered that, I quote: It is permissible under the existing Constitution to adopt a second parallel law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Its adoption could be based on the provision of the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 of the Constitution, which expressly states that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be provided with working conditions and remuneration corresponding to the dignity of the office and the scope of their duties. These conditions are not part of the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal or the procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal, and they are difficult to include in the Constitution or in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Therefore, in addition to the basic law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, which should be a rather narrow law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, it would be possible to adopt this Act, this time on the working conditions and the remuneration of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. End of quote from the expert report. For these reasons, the act submitted by the group of Members therefore concerns the rights, obligations and rules of liability of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It also characterizes the service relationship of the judge of the Tribunal. The draft law consists of five chapters. In Chapter 1: General provisions, the drafter repeated the constitutional standards concerning the size of the body, as well as the principle of the Sejm's choice for a 9-year term and the characteristics of the candidate for the judge's position. In the latter context, the draft refers to the qualification requirements needed to take up the position of Supreme Court Judge. This is a solution that has worked well in practice and ensured that suitable candidates for the role of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal have been selected. At the same time, it does not impose on the Sejm an excessively narrow framework limiting a significant circle of people who could be selected. For these reasons, the drafter considered that it was not necessary for the new law to regulate the selection of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in a way different from that previously. With regard to the procedure for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal itself, the drafter sent a reference to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. This is, firstly, confirmation of the constitutional competence of the Sejm to elect judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and secondly, it is also the implementation of the conclusions of the report of the panel of experts on matters of the Constitutional Tribunal, who explicitly stated that, I quote: the Sejm - in accordance with Article. 194 - elects judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, suggesting that matters relating to the electoral procedure should be subject to a rule of law - p. 41 and 42 expert team report. An important part of the project is the rules on the status of the person elected as judge of the Tribunal. The project sets out the requirements for taking a vow and maintains the principle of taking a vow to the President. The proposed provisions implement the explanatory memorandum of the Constitutional Tribunal for its judgment of 3 December 2015 (sign. K 34/15). I quote: The vows made to the president in accordance with the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act is not merely a solemn ceremony of a symbolic nature referring to the traditional inauguration of the term of office. This event has two important functions. First of all, it is a public promise by the judge to act in accordance with the vows he has made. In this way, the judge declares his/her personal responsibility for the impartial and careful performance of his/her duties in accordance with his/her conscience and respect for the dignity of his/her office. Secondly, the taking of the oath allows the judge to begin office, i.e. the execution of the mandate entrusted to him. These two important aspects of the vow show that it is not just a solemn occasion, but an event with concrete legal effects. For this reason, the involvement of the President in taking the oath from the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected by the Sejm should be placed in the sphere of the exercise of the powers of the head of state. It was a quote from the explanatory memorandum to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The consequence of the above-mentioned position is, firstly, that the refusal to take a vow is equivalent to the resignation of the judge of the tribunal, secondly, that the service relationship of the judge of the tribunal is established after the oath is taken. The Judge shall, after taking the oath, be placed immediately in the Court for the purpose of taking up his duties and the President of the Tribunal shall assign him cases and create conditions for the performance of his duties. The proposed wording of the provisions on vows and its consequences is also confirmed by the position expressed in the report of the panel of experts on the issues of the Constitutional Tribunal. In Recommendation No.4 they stated: In the Polish tradition of government and law, vowing plays an important and special role as a sign of loyalty and a form of assurance of compliance with obligations. This justifies the maintenance of an obligation to take an oath by a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The refusal to take the oath should be equivalent to the resignation of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Chapter 1 of the draft also contains a provision on the independence of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Art. 5 of the project extensively regulates requirements related to impartiality and apoliticity. It also sets limits on the performance of additional activities by the judge of the Tribunal. The proposed standards are intended to guarantee the integrity of the performance of the duties of judge. In this respect, a particular role has been assigned to the President of the Tribunal, who, in accordance with the Article, has been assigned. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 may object in writing if the taking up or continuing of employment or other occupation hinders the performance of duties, undermines the dignity of the Tribunal's office or undermines confidence in its impartiality or independence. This regulation responds to the recommendation of the panel of experts on matters of the Constitutional Tribunal. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th draft sets out an additional obligation for the judge to act in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Such a code is to be adopted on the basis of separate legal provisions. The issue of the adoption of the Code of Ethics is an expression of the implementation of the recommendation of the panel of experts on the issues of the Constitutional Tribunal, which recognised: An essential condition for the functioning of an independent constitutional court is to ensure the apoliticality of judges. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland shall be established in this respect by the minimum necessary. The requirements of apoliticity of judges should be specified at the statutory level. Furthermore, it would be advisable to draw up an ethical code at the Constitutional Court. The expert group also stressed: In accordance with the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 The Constitutional Tribunal judges must not belong to a political party, trade union or conduct public activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of courts and the independence of judges during the period of office. Although there is a view in the literature that the obligation to refrain from the conduct and participation of judges in political activities only concerns the period of active performance of functions, it should also be referred to the time when the judge is at rest and therefore enjoys certain privileges. In this context, it should also be seen as particularly gross due to the political intensity of the statements and behaviour of certain retired judges, including the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The statutory restrictions on the period of rest, in which a person remains a judge and should keep the right distance to the political sphere, seem to be reasonable and desirable. The specific involvement of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest in political activities should in any event result in his disciplinary responsibility. The question of the possibility for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal to carry out certain public activities is reflected in the proposed law. The draft in separate chapters regulates the status of retired Judges and Judges. With regard to the duties and rights of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, it shall lay down certain requirements and limitations for which a judge, including the retired, may be held liable by disciplinary action. The second chapter of the proposed law sets out the principles of liability and the immunity of the judge of the Tribunal and his personal immunity. The proposal includes both rules relating to criminal liability or deprivation of liberty as well as matters relating to disciplinary liability. The drafter has set out in detail the rules for the waiver of immunity to the Tribunal. The decision in this case was left to the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This corresponds to the regulation contained in Article. 196, according to which - a quote from the Constitution: the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal may not, without the prior consent of the Constitutional Tribunal, be held liable or deprived of liberty. The Judge may not be arrested or arrested, except in the act of apprehending him if his detention is necessary to ensure the proper course of the proceedings. The arrest shall be notified without delay to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, who may order the immediate release of the detained person - the end of the quote from the Constitution. Art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the draft shall indicate the grounds for disciplinary responsibility. It shall be implemented before the Constitutional Tribunal for violation of the law, failure to act as a judge of the Tribunal's office, violation of the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal or other unethical conduct likely to undermine confidence in its impartiality or independence. The draft fills the current gap in the rules on disciplinary action against the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal by a more detailed description of the procedure. For this reason, a group of Members, in addition to regulations such as the compositions of a disciplinary court, the absence of a cassation complaint against a disciplinary decision given at second instance or a catalogue of disciplinary penalties, which are reprimanded, reprimanded, reduced remuneration of 10% Up to 20% for a period of up to 2 years, the submission of the judge to the Tribunal of its own motion shall lay down the rules for initiating the procedure and giving him the run. The detailed regulation of disciplinary proceedings shall be implemented by Recommendation No 10 of the Expert Group on. issues of the Constitutional Tribunal. The experts in the report stressed that - I quote: The establishment of transparent, logical and functional rules of disciplinary action against judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, both ruling and at rest, is a necessary requirement of a democratic rule of law in which public authorities and their officials act on the basis and within the limits of the law. The properly regulated way in which judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are held accountable also meets an essential element of the legitimacy of the constitutional judiciary. In addition, consideration should be given to the additional moral requirements which are imposed on those exercising public functions, including, above all, judges. The mechanism for bringing judges to disciplinary action should first guarantee the authentic independence of the Constitutional Tribunal and the independence of its judges - p. 77 expert reports, end of quote. The draft provides for disciplinary action against judges of the Constitutional Tribunal only within the framework of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is in line with the recommendation of the expert report that - I quote: Disciplinary action against judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should be closed to the Constitutional Court, which means the inadmissibility of involvement in the procedure for the enforcement of disciplinary liability of other external entities. At the same time, it must be pointed out that a particular responsibility in disciplinary proceedings lies with the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, apart from other circumstances, justifies the need to establish the term of office of that position. However, the closure of the disciplinary responsibility of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the Court of First Instance does not mean that there is no possibility for third parties to make an appropriate notification. Such notice, which should be noted, shall not initiate any disciplinary procedure against the judge but merely constitute a preliminary element of the validity of which, autonomously, while fully respecting the principle of independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall decide. It must be emphasized with all its power. It is recommended to establish, at the statutory level, an entity, for constitutional reasons, which is particularly predisposed to submit an appropriate notification. It is the President of the Republic of Poland, who, due to his duties as guardian of the Constitution, has an obvious role here - the end of the quote from the report. For this reason, in Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the project was identified by a group of bodies entitled to notify the President of the Constitutional Tribunal of the decision by a These persons include both the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the authorities obliged to uphold the Constitution, i.e. the President of the Republic of Poland, and the rule of law - the Attorney General. It should be stressed that the projector has established a requirement for cooperation for the latter two entities. The proposal provides that the President may submit a notification of the offence at the request of the Attorney General. It is an expression of cooperation, but also of balance of power. The power of the President of the Republic of Poland to submit a notification of an offence by a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is the implementation of the article. 126 of the Constitution, in which the Constitutional legislature entrusted the President of the Republic of Poland with the task of upholding the Constitution. This task also relates to the statutory position of the President of the Republic of Poland as the subject of taking the oath from the person elected as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The President by law becomes the guarantor of the conduct of such a judge according to law and ethics. The power of the Prosecutor-General to submit an application to the President of the Republic of Poland concerning the offence of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is, however, linked to the political position of that body as a public-interest entity. Importantly, the abovementioned entities shall not affect the final decision to initiate disciplinary proceedings or the outcome thereof. Once again, this must be emphasised with all force - this is an internal matter of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is up to the disciplinary officer appointed by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal by drawing a draw that a preliminary examination of the charges brought against the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and of the decision to initiate proceedings should be made. This procedure is described in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The proposed law. The proposed solution refers to the provisions of the Supreme Court Act and refers to the provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts and the Code of Criminal Procedure for Unregulated Matters. Thus, for the first time, the question of disciplinary action in the case of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is regulated more fully, which gives clear and clear rules on how to conduct such proceedings and, on the other hand, provides procedural guarantees for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal who is blamed. These issues have not yet been clearly identified. In Chapter 3, the drafter defined the rights and obligations of the judge of the Tribunal. The rule has been maintained that the working time of the Judge of the Tribunal is defined by the dimension of his duties. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 18 projects identified the indicators needed to calculate the basic remuneration of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and the remuneration of the President and the Vice-President of the Tribunal, as well as the rules for determining that remuneration. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 of the project confirmed the right for the judge of the tribunal permanently residing outside Warsaw for free accommodation in Warsaw and the reimbursement of travel expenses and the allowance for separation with the family in accordance with the Act on employees of state offices. An important group of provisions are Article. A draft laying down issues such as prohibitions on the performance of a particular activity by a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, the obligation to make a declaration of the economic activity of the judge's spouse or the obligation to make a statement of property. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 23th draft was governed by the obligation of the judge of the Constitutional Court to make a statement on his or her assets and to appoint the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in this respect. This provision provides for the disclosure of the statements of property of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the obligation to publish them in the Public Information Bulletin of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is an element of preference for the transparency of people with high public functions. The proposed amendments concerning the disclosure of the declaration of economic activity carried out by the spouse of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and the disclosure of claims of property, including the property of a separate judge and the co-ownership of the spouses, aim to prevent corruption from occurring and tightening up existing solutions. The transparency of property statements enables them to be more effectively controlled. Consequently, it is intended to ensure that the courts of the Constitutional Tribunal, who are public officials, are in the right and interest of the State to act. Such action shall conform to the standards set out in the case law of the Constitutional Court. The designer is aware that the obligation for the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to provide information about their assets and to make it public interferes with the right to privacy, including information autonomy. However, it should be borne in mind that Article. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland guarantees citizens the right to obtain information about the activities of public authorities and persons performing public functions. In its judgment of 8 October 2001, the Court of First Instance held that: K 11/01 The Court stressed that, I quote the justification of the Constitutional Court: the legislator has the freedom to determine the scope of restrictions on persons performing public functions, which can be shaped differently at different times due to the worsening of corruption and the negative social response. They should remain in a rational relationship with the public interest to which they are intended and their scope should be commensurate with the level of that interest. The limits imposed on those exercising public functions cannot therefore be considered in terms of restrictions on the freedoms and rights of those persons, but should be regarded as a means of ensuring the proper functioning of public institutions. End of quote from the justification for the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, on the grounds of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 21 October 1998, the order of 21 October 1998. K 24/98 follows, and I quote: No citizen is obliged to apply for or to perform a public function, and knowing the consequences of this fact in the form of making public a certain range of information belonging to the privacy sphere, it takes a self-contained and conscious decision based on a positive and negative impact account, calculating certain limitations and discomfort associated with interference in private life. End of quote from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. It follows from the above that by deciding to stand as a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and then acting as a judge, the person concerned accepts the conditions limiting his or her right to private and family life. The rules do not impose arbitrary obligations here. The proposed solution is the realisation of values such as transparency and transparency of public life. It is intended to ensure that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal perform their duties in a fair and impartial manner, thereby implementing the constitutional powers of the Tribunal as an independent judicial authority. The refusal to make such statements shall be equivalent to the resignation of the Judge of the Tribunal. So there is a choice. The Group of Members considered that the content of the provisions concerning certain prohibitions on the conduct of business by judges resulting from the Supreme Court Act better took into account the nature of the status of such entities. Therefore, Art. 20 of the bill repeats the solutions contained in the Law on the Supreme Court in respect of bans on the conduct of business by judges. In this way, judicial independence is better guaranteed. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The three draft Members' group proposed that the Court's judge should transfer the proceeds of holding shares or shares in a commercial company to the public objectives it has designated by 31 March of the year following the year in which it obtained them. The failure to comply with this obligation is equivalent to the resignation by the judge of the Tribunal. This is to express the participation of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the pursuit of the common good and to prevent the temptation to pursue private interests in a situation of potential conflict between the interests of the company whose shares the judge has and the interests of the state and citizens. Rejection means resignation. The proposal also laid down rules for the expiry of the term of office of the Judge before the end of his term of office. Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the draft provides that, in the case of first, the death of the judge of the tribunal, secondly, the resignation by the judge of the court of office, thirdly, the conviction of the judge of the tribunal by a final judgment of the court for an intentional offence prosecuted by a public charge or a deliberate tax offence and fourthly, the final judgment of the judge of the tribunal of office. In the mouth. Article 2 26 the authorities empowered to terminate the mandate have been identified. In a separate chapter 4, the designer proposed provisions on the state of rest. The principle that the judge of the Tribunal shall retire after the end of his term of office has been maintained. However, the designer made an additional reservation in this regard. As a model of the Supreme Court law, the projector introduced a requirement for the President of the Tribunal 6 months before the end of the 70th year of age of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal to be able to perform the duties of judge due to the state of health. Such a certificate shall be submitted to the President of the Tribunal at the age of 70 by 31 January of each year until the end of his term of office. If a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is to have jurisdiction such as that of the Supreme Court, it should be considered that this obligation applies not only to the moment of the election but also to the entire term of office. It is also about legitimizing the right state of health. In addition, the designer, like the Supreme Court, warned that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal who did not retire after 70 years of age could not act as President or Vice-President of the Tribunal. This is due to the willingness to relieve these people of their administrative responsibilities and to enable them, because of their great legal knowledge and experience, to serve the good of the state and society. The draft sets out the rights and obligations of the retired Judge and the consequences of the breach of those obligations. The importance of apoliticity of the retired judge, which, like the President-in-Office, cannot be part of a political party, a trade union or a public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of courts and the independence of judges, has been stressed. The duty to uphold the dignity of the judge of the tribunal has also been highlighted. Art. 31 of the project lists cases of loss of the status of judge of the tribunal at rest. They are similar to those relating to active judges. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 33 The drafter separately regulated the issue of the apoliticality of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest and the prohibition of their activities incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. The rules for the taking up of employment at the university and the subordinateness of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal resting on the Code of Ethics of the Judge have also been laid down. The Constitutional Tribunal. The proposalor decided that, due to the new way of regulating the matter concerning the tribunal, the transitional, adapting and final provisions would be included in a separate law - the introductory provisions. Such a legislative procedure is justified by the fact that from the existing one law, which regulated various issues relating to the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, it was distinguished in accordance with the wording of the article. 197 of the Constitution, and in line with the recommendations of the expert panel on the Two acts of the Constitutional Tribunal. In order to ensure consistency of regulation and to introduce new legal solutions efficiently, a separate law implementing these provisions has been designed. The reference to the Introductory Act is set out in Chapter 5 entitled: Final provisions. In this chapter, the legislator referred to the proper application of certain provisions of the Law on the Supreme Court in matters not governed by the law and relating to the rights and obligations of judges. This approach is intended to prevent loopholes in the law. The Act orders and develops constitutional regulations concerning the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The new legislative act will not give rise to any doubt as to the powers and responsibilities of the constitutional judge. A separate act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will highlight their role as members of the constitutional body of the State, which is the Constitutional Tribunal. The entry into force of the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will not, in principle, impose an additional burden on the State budget. Finally, the subject matter of the proposed law is not covered by European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u378	Thank you very much, sir. [[Your Marshal, with a motion.]] Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz made a formal request. You're welcome. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make a formal request to interrupt the session and to clarify the situation that had just taken place at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, which Mr Piotrowicz theoretically presided over, but he presided over another Member who ran away from the meeting of the committee and, by interrupting its deliberations, held an illegal vote... [[Four times.]] ...without counting the votes. In addition, I would like to ask the marshal to clarify the situation that the guests from Congress of Women, ladies who wanted to attend the committee meeting, were not admitted to the Sejm and their leave was cancelled by the Marshal's Guard. After my conversation with the Marshal's Chief on duty, I was informed that he received such an order and sent it to Mr Piotrowicz for permission, whether people could enter the Sejm or not. Please, Mrs Marshal, to clarify this matter - since Mr Piotrowicz agrees to enter the Sejm or not, I ask you to explain what right and whose decision the passes have been cancelled for those wishing to participate in an important abortion debate, in which Mr Piotrowicz is very cleverly carrying out tragic changes to the Constitutional Court. Specially, this huge commotion, an outburst, and almost there was a struggle, in order to introduce key changes in the Constitutional Court and in Polish democracy precisely in this room. [[Voice from the room: Known methods.]] And cynicism is that Mr Piotrowicz, instead of holding a committee meeting, which he should hold as chairman, is quietly introducing changes to the Constitutional Court, and there is an uproar. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] And I wonder, how embarrassed are you? How can you not be ashamed to do such things in the Polish Parliament? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's been almost a handful just now, and your incompetent deputy couldn't drive or interrupt this committee meeting. Fortunately, under pressure, perhaps because of your absence, it was possible that this tragic law banning abortion, introducing penalties, had been adversely assessed by the committee. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u380	Sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u381	This is the effect of the extortion which today is in the Polish Parliament, and here, in silence and without the presence of Members, the tribunal and democracy are changing. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u382	Thank you very much, sir. I'm calling a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 13 h 18 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 15 of the agenda. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u383	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which governs the rights and obligations of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the manner in which, the scope and the rules of termination of the service relationship of the Judge of the Tribunal, the issue of immunity and personal immunity and the principle of disciplinary liability of the Judge of the Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is the result of the work of a team of specialists appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm, to a large extent... [[What?]] [[Professionals?]] [[The joy in the room, the bell.]] ...in principle, to a large extent, at the request of Members of the opposition who demanded the work of professionals, not politicians on this bill. And we have this project. In part, however, it must be pointed out that the draft is also based on the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which indicated the need to separate the rules on the functioning of the Tribunal, to include them in a separate act or to regulate the matter more widely. A number of provisions of this law were contained in other acts, for example in the Constitutional Tribunal Act and partly in the Constitution, but it seems reasonable that the status of a judge should be regulated in a single legal act, just in the law of this content which has been submitted. I will not refer to solutions that are already in force and are in other acts, but I would like to draw attention to some of the new provisions which, in my view, are absolutely right and necessary. First of all, property claims. It's in my opinion that there's a very need for regulation. Surprisingly, it does not apply to judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and it should have been for many years. Today we have a situation in Poland where councillors, in which Members, prosecutors make statements of property and, of course, publish them on the pages of the Public Information Bulletin, and for some reason, judges do not do so, and even more so the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Any such concerns, which would indicate that the publication of claims of property poses a certain threat, are simply false. Already today, we can talk about statements of property of prosecutors that have been filed. I think a dozen have been released from this, only a dozen of these statements have not been made. Examples of Members can also be given. For many years, statements have been made by them and we have not heard that any Member should be harmed for this reason. [[Or is it true, sir?]] With this truth, it can be different, sir. The State has bad examples in its party in this regard. [[Minister Jurgiel.]] [[If you have any reports, call the D.A.'s office.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u384	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u385	The second point is the question of involving the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the work of the Tribunal. Well, today we're dealing with cases where... [[Minister Szyszko.]] ...judges of the tribunal fall in during the windows at university work and then deal with the substantive work in the Court. It just can't be. There is so much work, and judges so little that it requires full commitment. The regulation of restricting work outside the tribunal to teaching work and only to a certain extent, only on a one-time basis, is justified. This will allow the judges to focus on working in the Court, perhaps partly catching up and shorten the time taken to deal with cases. And the third very important thing is the status of a retired judge. Today we have a situation where the judge basically, after his term of office, except for the fact that he gets an allowance, has a full range of opportunities to engage and act. And in many cases, he was not a role model and legal authority, but he was a political role model and authority. We would like to avoid such situations so that, after their term of office, judges become politically active commentators of political life. They should be legal authorities, because a nine-year term is [[Applause]] proof that such authority can be built, not commented on political life, [[♪ The bell ♪]] participate in the activities of political parties. For these reasons, the Law and Justice will support this proposal and request that it be handed over to the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u386	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is significant that once again Law and Justice is throwing in this parliament, throwing in an unconstitutional bill, or rather throwing in a few laws, because, as we can see from the last articles, yet... [[Where's the applicant? Where's Peterovich?]] ...we'll have two laws to disorganize the court's work. While Poland is experiencing a wave of incredible, unprecedented protests against what the current authority is doing, while further rating agencies or the World Bank are lowering the forecast of domestic product growth in Poland, Law and Justice is funding another war for the tribunal. The hypocrisy and hypocrisy of this bill is that you pretend to be the applicant, that you're making amends. You faked it two months ago, [[Applause]] When you wanted a new bill on the grandstand, while you knew that in two months' time you were going to submit three drafts of the bill. So far, you've submitted, contrary to the rules of legislation, only one project. But ad rem. Ladies and gentlemen, shame. It's a shame that this is how you mummy society, that you want to fix anything. In fact, you have fought a war against the Constitutional Court, and now you are fighting a lot of legal authorities who are trying objectively, unpolitically, to explain the public's opinion on what your attempt at democracy, the rule of law and the three divisions of power are all about. You're talking about equality against the law at a time when there's no week for the media not to report any more servants entering their homes... [[Member of the applicant has found himself.]] ...people who were once involved in private affairs of one of your ministers, and at the same time you are talking about equality before the law in relation to the judges of the tribunal. This law violates a number of fundamental principles concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. First of all, he violates the principle of 9 years of cadence. Well, you want these doctors, with all due respect to medical experts, to decide whether a judge elected for a nine-year term can complete his term of office by the end of his 70th year. Secondly, you admit how weak the PiS state is if you are unable to examine the property statements of the judges, but you want your neighbour to do so, so that your journalists - perhaps to arouse further emotions - maybe to show the public once again that the enemy is on that side. Another element: you're afraid of criticism. Not only are you afraid of criticism from the opposition, of a fair criticism of what you are doing, but above all you are afraid of criticism from people who have a unique reputation for public opinion and who have never been involved in a political dispute. You want to put a muzzle on the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest. You can be congratulated because it wasn't even invented by the Polish People's Republic of Censorship. [[Applause]] - what you want to do today. It's not like you guys are at war with the Constitutional Tribunal. You are at war with basic principles, with the principle of three divisions of power. At the moment, you're also trying to wage war on many fronts, with public opinion. You will invoke the sovereign, change the nation before many cases, and you really want to start another war for the tribunal. To cover what? To cover the fact that for your own policy you are able to violate not only the principle of three divisions of power and democracy, but also the interests of Poland abroad. It is not without reason that your guru, your president, a member of this jury, who is obviously not in such a debate, says that the government will not support the election of Prime Minister Donald Tusk for the second term. There's a reason you're filing this bill today. In fact, the only goal you have since the beginning of this term is to destroy the Constitutional Tribunal so that citizens do not have the chance to fight for their fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution. That's why we're filing for rejection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] this draft law at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr. Tomasz Romekowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u389	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, it would be appropriate to refer to the very method of proceding, namely that the draft law came out last Friday and in fact the constitutional authorities of the state, so important from the point of view of the functioning of the Polish system, could not express themselves. We have neither the Supreme Court nor the National Judicial Council nor the Attorney General. Hurry is indicated for catching fleas and for fire. It's completely unwarranted here. Another issue is the matter of the law itself. 70% , by the eye, you can say, the rules, the standards contained in this draft law are standards which already apply in the Polish legal system. There is really no need to create a new law for the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The rest, on the other hand... I am already overlooking the question of repetition in the article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and, as a general rule, Article 1. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 virtually the same standard. Those are the rules that are at least questionable. as to the constitutionality. I say, at least, because, as the previous speaker mentioned, Mr Boris Budka, it is a matter of limiting his term of office and causing this expert doctor to decide whether or not the judge is fit to perform his duties, and that exceeding 70 years of age automatically deprives the judge of the possibility of acting as President or Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. We often talk about the American model of the state, we refer to the patterns from across the ocean. Let's see what it looks like out there. This proposal, which is at the moment, is basically an antithesis of the operation of the United States Supreme Court, where the judges hold their term of office for life. The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is clear: the term of office of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal lasts 9 years, and we will have this term of office if this law is passed and political arithmetic indicates that it will be passed... She's just gonna be limited. In my opinion, I do not have the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal to say this in a binding way - it will be contrary to the Constitution. In order not to extend, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that we will vote against the bill submitted at first reading. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u390	Thank you. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost a year has passed since the parliamentary elections, and the ruling majority, instead of focusing on solving problems of Poles, creates further problems with great commitment. Almost a year has passed since the parliamentary elections, and the ruling majority has already submitted a fifth draft law to abolish the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. You are attacking the tribunal because almost every week you are pushing laws through the Polish parliament that are unconstitutional: the land law, the surveillance law, and now we almost had a law on women's rights. In parallel with the work on the Law on the Status of Judges, you called a meeting of the Justice Committee on this abortion law just to make it difficult for the opposition to participate in the work on these two key projects. But don't count on it: we were both here and here. It can be seen that Jarosław Kaczyński is lost and does not know under whose pressure - whether the Church or these thousands of determined people - to bend. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The list, in quotes, of the victims of the PiS attack on the Constitutional Tribunal is long. Attacking the Constitutional Tribunal, PiS politicians destroy respect for the law. Attacking the Constitutional Tribunal, PiS politicians destroy the foundations of democratic freedom. Attacking the Court, PiS Members destroy their opinion about Poland abroad. The piss comes from the assumption that the rulers are free to do anything. But who are you? Who gave you? the right to such action? You are embarrassing Poland and Poles, as another debate in the European Parliament has already shown. I have some bad news for you. Poles see how badly you are hurting Poland, and you saw it on Monday... [[Don't scream.]] ...when thousands of determined men in black went out into the streets to tell you, no, to say no to your governments. Five days ago, PiS filed another law on the Constitutional Court. If the president had told you to, you'd probably have signed off on the project today. But as much as the President can pass the vote and sign it, we will not stop scoring your mistakes and legal negligence. Everything indicates that this act on the status of judges is to be a kind of political leash on which the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will be held - and they were, and are present. In this bill, you are trying to include the illegally elected judges in the ruling. You're trying to limit the age involved in the role of judge, even though we have clear constitutional records about an endless nine-year term. This is not the end of the legal absurdity in this bill. In this bill, you can see how much your critics are hurting you. You want to gag the judges at rest so they can't criticize any more ridiculous legal ideas. Many were hoping to see legal responsibility in this room, but for a year we have only seen a legal cabaret. PiS stubbornly tries to turn the Sejm into a legal bull factory. But don't be delusional. You can push more legal buffs through the nights, but we certainly won't allow you to adopt laws destroying the foundation of democracy quietly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u392	Please, Madame, Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this project, like many others, is not prepared. It is not possible to proceed over a draft law if we do not have amending rules or transitional provisions. We cannot assess the amendments proposed in this proposal, because we now have a law on the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. There are a number of rules that apply to judges, as in this project. Therefore, there must also be amending provisions at this point in time so that we know how to assess the relationship between the existing law And the law we're supposed to vote on. That's one thing. On the other hand, an important issue in any law that amends the previously existing rules must be regulated by the introductory provisions, i.e. the transitional provisions that tell what will happen in the meantime. Otherwise, we are unable to address many of the proposed provisions. This project not only duplicates errors from previous projects, including those related to the project. judges who have taken a vow rather than adjudicated because they have been incorrectly chosen, but also in the article. 12 shall include the President's right to apply for disciplinary action against the Judge. The Constitutional Tribunal has already expressed its views on this matter. In our law, there is a separation between the judicial authority and the executive authority in our legal system. Disciplinary action against judges may be initiated only within the judicial authority and the executive authority may not in this respect [[♪ The bell ♪]] submit initial applications. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u394	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna start by talking about it. Why is it today that we are concerned about the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, since for the past 10 months the majority of the Sejm has done everything to trample, depreciate and vanquish this status? Status, let me remind you, due to the constitutional position of the Constitutional Tribunal. Analyzing the provisions of the bill on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, it may be felt that the applicants - i.e. the Members of the PIS - paraphrasing the words of the song by Maciej Maleńczuk, would like the President of the Tribunal to have a heart attack. How to prepare this project, how to post it on the sejm page, how to take it off this side... [[Technical problems.]] ...at last, the express pace of proceding, hastily, without an opinion of such important institutions, i.e. the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, are more appropriate for cabaret or soap opera than for the legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the PiS, the Constitutional Tribunal - whether more broadly: the judiciary, the state system - is not staged art or film art. The record that judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are restricted to 70 years of age is beyond any doubt non-constitutional. After all, the Constitution clearly states that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is elected by the Sejm for a nine-year term. There is therefore no reason to limit the exercise of office during the term of office by law or by any other means. Attempts to close the mouth to retired judges are, in turn, complete puriazum. The knowledge and experience of retired judges is a great value that public opinion should benefit from and benefit from in any developed democracy. This is an incredibly bold attempt to introduce censorship against an independent environment, which has repeatedly been critical of your actions on the tribunal. This draft repeats the provision of the Act of 22 July this year. establishing that the Judge of the Court, after taking the oath before the President, is present at the Constitutional Court for the purpose of taking up his duties and that the President of the Tribunal assigns him cases and creates the conditions for fulfilling the duties of the Judge. After all, on 11 August the Constitutional Tribunal declared this provision incompatible with the Constitution. You are going back to the dispute a year ago and you are going to fire it up again instead of looking for a way out of the crisis in line with the European Commission's recommendations on the rule of law monitoring procedure for us. After reading the project, it cannot be surprising that the date of entry into force of the Act, which is to be derived from the Law introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, will enter into force. The point is, there is no such law or even its design. The project has nothing to do with the standards of the democratic rule of law, undermines the independence of the judiciary and creatively refers to the golden times of the project applicant. Until recently, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, in the opinion of many of the actions you have taken before the Constitutional Court and the wider judiciary, have been compared to the practices of Aleksandra Lukashenka in Belarus, but you have little. [[PSL, I think, is closer to Lukashenka.]] I'm afraid to think about what happens next, because it's still only North Korea. I would not like Poland to put the international opinion in one line with North Korea. Save it for the Poles, because they really don't deserve this treatment. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I request that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u396	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, European Democrats' club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u397	Thank you, Marshal. Not yet, not yet, but soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u398	Circle, yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u399	Circle. Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! We have no doubt in the circle of European Democrats that this project fits... that this is the next phase of the hybrid war that PiS has declared to the Constitutional Court. Before that, we had some sort of repair bill that didn't fix anything, but it's worse. Now we have a law that is supposed to regulate the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, but it contains references to two other acts whose projects are not even available. Legislative decency, due process of law would require you to file this law together with the law implementing the law and with the drafts of other laws or documents that you refer to in this law, such as the code of ethics of judges. The Code of Ethics of Judges is intended to provide the basis for possible punishment or evaluation of the activities of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and this Code does not exist. Who's gonna give it to him? When will he approve? When will this law come into force? It is well known that it will not enter into force at the time of its adoption - assuming that we will be working on it in an express mode to which you are accustomed in matters of the Constitutional Tribunal and in the public opinion. So if you don't know what this bill is for... if you don't know what it's about, then you know what it's about. The point is to exert pressure, or even blackmail on judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and those ruling, and those at rest. In particular, it hurts you that such authorities in the field of law and also in the field of creating independent, honest Poland, like Prof. Zoll, like Prof. Safjan, like the President of Stępień or, like, in a moment, Prof. Rzepliński, will speak and judge your shameful or even shameful actions in relation to the constitutional order of the state. Your intentions are borne out by the fact that this is the only law in which you lower the decision-making threshold of the College of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Until now, you have ordered that all judgments and judgments be adopted by a greater majority than the current one, but if the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may be held liable, and this is the only time you want to reduce this threshold from 2/3 to 50%, to absolute majority. It is unacceptable, Mr Piotrowicz, to intervene in the judicial authority of the executive authority. Respect Monteskiuszowski, European, not even modern, but a traditional model of three divisions of power, on which modern European civilization is built, secular. And one more sentence. We're completely unable to understand why this 70-year-old recipe, because we're dealing with... You can't say that you compared judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to judges of the Supreme Court in your argument. The judges of the Supreme Court - you may not remember this, but it is worth reminding Members and spectators - are appointed for life, judges of the Constitutional Tribunal - cadence. [[Bullshit.]] I'm gonna have a term. Therefore, these 70 years are, in my opinion, evidence of incompetence and haste in the creation of this law. [[Up to retirement age, not for life, sir.]] Okay, by retirement age, okay. Anyway, not by term. We do not fully understand these provisions... in agreement, in principle, that property claims should also be made by judges, including judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, to talk about what you intend to decide in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, that the intention to change the nature of the business activity carried out by the spouse must be signalled... Mr Piotrowicz, perhaps it is true that, as I say, you will still be checking, controlling and reporting. I'll tell you one thing, sir. You said one sentence in this long statement, which I agree with. The sentence was as follows: Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal appoint the Sejm. Yes, this is the exclusive competence of the Sejm and therefore ask the President of the Party and President Andrzej Duda to finally take the oath of three judges legally and correctly, in accordance with the law appointed by the Constitutional Tribunal by the Sejm of the previous term of office. This is what you can do for the Republic of Poland, for the Polish Constitution, for respect for the law in our homeland. Thank you very much. Ah! I will add - of course we will support the proposal and the Platform, and the PSL to reject this failed, compromising draft legislative act at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u400	On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Gaina now has a voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 880. In support of the proposal, the applicant stresses that the position of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal differs from that of the general courts, administrative courts or the Supreme Court. Agreeing with this thesis, the Free and Solidarnia Circle believes that it is necessary to define precisely the rights, obligations, service relations and liability of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the form of a separate law. I do not expect the current President of the Court, Professor Andrzej Rzepliński, to comply with the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 draft law on the admission to judgment of three judges who were unjustly inadmissible by him, who took the oath before the President of the Republic of Poland, especially since President Rzepliński, despite repeated emphasis that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are directly subject to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, applies only the chosen provisions, consistently excluding e.g. Article 2 197. In this view, I am also confirmed by the e-mails of the management of the Constitutional Tribunal from 20 April to 1 June 2015, which clearly indicate that the judges of the Tribunal were fully aware before the entry into force of the Constitutional Tribunal Act by the PO-PSL coalition, that it is, I quote: the spoil of the state and that I present, quote: the mentality of my own. In particular, we are talking about an amendment that has contributed to securing seats at the Constitutional Court as candidates for the Civic Platform. The draft law implements the recommendations of the expert group's report on The Constitutional Tribunal, appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. The adoption of this law will stabilise the situation around the tribunal so that it can function without obstacles in full membership. Legislative work on this matter should be undertaken immediately before the end of the current term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. If, following the entry into force of the contested law, the President of the Tribunal still fails to comply with the rules of law, in accordance with disciplinary provisions, he will even be able to be submitted of his own motion. I raise this fact, because the judge of the Constitutional Court, and even more so his President, according to what the judges themselves said at the Extraordinary Congress of Polish Judges, that they are, I quote: a completely extraordinary caste of people and, quote: the salt of this land, should set an example in the ethical attitude and compliance with the law. I would like to draw attention to the selected provisions of the draft law, which I believe need to be amended. First of all, in the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 we can read that the notification by the judge of the offence referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One may be submitted to the President of the Tribunal by the judge of the Tribunal, by a group of judges of the Tribunal and by the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the Prosecutor General. Taking into account the request from a smaller to a larger one, it seems pointless to mention as a separate entity entitled to notify a group of judges to the Tribunal, since that power has been granted to each judge individually. Secondly, in the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 there has been a repetition of the wording of the Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. With the exception of the statement, I quote: and it must maintain the dignity of the status of the judge of the tribunal at rest, both rules are in fact no different. In addition, the way in which the chapter on retired judges is laid down seems chaotic. The proposed proposals should be further refined, including the question of the level of remuneration of judges and the proposed agreement of the President of the Tribunal to take additional employment, as the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal should be fully committed to his judicial work and reject any other activity which could distract his attention and focus from the proper service to the nation in the exercise of judicial authority. The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be sent to the committee for further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u402	Thank you. About 40 ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the floor. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. He'll be the first to speak... [[I'm a man, Mr. Marshal.]] Sorry, Mr Sławomir Nitras will speak. [[Voice from the room: First.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u403	Thank you. I'm glad Mr. Piotrowicz is in the O.R. because I really want to ask him a few questions. You proposed, among other things. introducing disciplinary penalties for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. You're suggesting, among other things, that he can apply for these punishments from the Attorney General. In this context, I would like to ask you if you remember how you behaved towards the judge of the court - I know that this is a court, not a tribunal, but the mechanism is similar - Mr. Deputy Minister Jak and what he threatened her with. Isn't that the same mechanism, or isn't it just about the pressure and the fearing of judges? That's one thing. As I understand it, in your view, this law is a response to certain demands. I would like to ask you if you could point out one example of the behavior that would be subject to such a court. You also spoke about the proposal to limit the age of judges and the requirements for medical examinations. Would you please show your research, sir, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you're insisting on others? I'd be interested, for example. Minister Macierewicz's research... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u404	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[I suppose you will be equally consistent with other Members.]] Of course I will. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by asking a question that's often been asked in this room. What else do you have in mind, what kind of projects, if you're so determined to destroy the tribunal and now the judges of the tribunal? For today you are introducing this project, talking about the need to regulate the status of a judge of the tribunal, on the basis of the provisions to punish the insubordinates against the current power of judges, because you do not like the fact that the great legal authorities were the presidents of the tribunal because of concern for the state, in defence of the rule of law, democracy talking loudly about the dangers of your projects. They're not afraid to say out loud where this is going. Therefore, they must be shut down, mechanisms must be created that will allow the current power to deal with those who stand in the way of dictatorship. I'll tell you one thing: you're not gonna make it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u406	Thank you. The question is asked by Michał Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very surprised at this project that you're so limited. You have a majority in this room, and here's a rather moderate project with the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I thought you could do anything in this project to record that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have to wear the hats of the dwarfs. [[Applause]] I thought you were gonna write down on this project that they were gonna jump on one leg. I thought you were gonna write down that they're supposed to scream every day for half an hour that there's only one demiurge and that demiurge is always right. Weak, very weak. [[Applause]] [[Report an amendment.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This bill is a scandal. It's another step towards the Unity. You don't just want to embarrass yourselves, what you've been doing all day, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But you also want to ridicule the judges of the tribunal. We're not authorized to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u408	Thank you. Now you are asking Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u409	High Izbo! A small remark to Mr Peterowicz. Mr President, you cynically wanted to debate today on the Constitutional Court... [[Mr. Marshal, how can you? Marshal Terlecki's on the phone, you got away with it.]] [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochocka: The Church is calling.]] ...by setting up the same time for the justice committee's meeting on the anti-abortion bill. You led to worse scenes in the Sejm, as all of Poland saw. You've exceeded all possible limits of good taste. I'll tell you this is gonna end someday, I hope it's gonna end sooner than three years from now. How are you gonna look your neighbors and friends in the face after everything you're offering? Sir, the question is, is the aim of the projector, yours, to use the powers of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General to effectively paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u410	The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You don't have an MP? There it is. [[There it is. I didn't go anywhere.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u411	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Once again, the PiS, under the shining direction of Mr Peterowicz, is attempting to assassinate the tribunal. And here's what I'm going to say: maybe you and the Poles can win this edition of the war for the tribunal, maybe even manage to take control of the tribunal, using the tools of contempt for the law, the constitution combined with the majority of the parliament. But quoting Orwell, it's better to act than to be passive. In the game we're playing, we can't win, but some losers are better than others. Modern will not give up and we will continue to fight for the restoration of the right to justice for Poles. Even if we lose another battle, we will win the war. This loss in the fight for democracy is better than your temporary win. Therefore, I ask: Why, knowing that the proposals you are making are incompatible with the Constitution, the rule of law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Knowing the content of the previous rulings of the tribunal, are you once again undertaking this trial? How do you look in the mirror every day? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u412	The question is asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is not just a debate about draft laws, and this is not just a debate about the Constitutional Court, because today's debate is a debate about the vision of the state, a debate about whether we want to live in a state of law, whether we want to live in a country of the party, in a country of law where a government majority is limited by law, or in a country of a party where everything is shaped and ruled by a party. It's a debate about whether the law will win today or whether arrogance and boot will prevail. It is a debate about how far the majority of the Sejm is capable of depraving and making depraving their strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! Why is it useful to duplicate the existing provisions concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, covered by the laws: the Court, the status of judges, contained in the procedural law introducing other provisions? Ladies and gentlemen! In chaos, you can't drown the rule of law, you can't drown your own incompetence, and you want to take over this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u414	The question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club. There's no envoy? The question is asked by Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! I have a very simple question, very simple question. The proposed bill introduces a code of ethics to be adopted on the basis of separate provisions. I wanted to ask: What are the rules, and who will create this code of ethics? And will he be closer to the Old Testament, the New Testament, the law of Sharia? What will he refer to? What's the point of reference? [[The PiS Statute.]] I would very much ask for an answer, because in the context of this bill it is, I think, a very important question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u416	The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was not possible, under the protection of abortion war, to carry out these very important changes for the Polish society. I have some questions for the applicants. First of all, Mr applicant, I would like to know - I would like to get this information in writing - whether the draft was consulted with the constitutionalists on the recording of the submission of the judge to the Tribunal as one of the penalties. Since the judge is appointed by the Sejm as the supreme authority in this respect, what law can the Attorney General ask to be made public? With which rules Is it connected, or does it have something to do with it? And another case. I'm a doctor, a doctor at work. Anyone who starts to do anything must have important research. So I'm asking now what kind of expert he's going to be studying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you questioning the competence of the Polish occupational medicine service? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u418	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law does not solve any problem with the Constitutional Tribunal and the conflict in which we are located. On the contrary, it aggravates this conflict. First of all, it doesn't solve the problem of three properly elected judges, it just makes it worse. Secondly, it limits the public statements of the retired judges. Thirdly, it prohibits them from performing various functions, even working at the Court of Justice of the European Union. Fourthly, it introduces an absolute ban on acting as President and Deputy President of the Tribunal after the age of 70. Fifthly, it limits and impedes the possibility of performing this function, in general, as a judge of the Tribunal, to persons aged 70 years or over. Finally, it does not remove any reasons that have caused the European Commission's conduct on the rule of law in Poland to compromise your authorities. Why are you introducing a law that aggravates the conflict around the tribunal and doesn't solve anything? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u420	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law on the Constitutional Court by PiS, another non-constitutional one. I would like to ask Mr Piotrowicz: What is the reason for applying the criteria in the form of principles of independence of judges and independence of judges in the case of retired judges? However, the retired judge has no judicial authority and therefore has no influence on the decisions taken by the Constitutional Tribunal. What, then, is the aim of the projector in the event of a restriction on the freedom of public expression of the judge at rest? In view of the further assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal by the PiS, are you so afraid of the criticisms of the former judges of the Tribunal that you have decided to introduce a mechanism for actually insulting those judges? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u422	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Again, of course, the empty room is part of the PiS. [[That's hypocritical. Is everyone on the platform?]] [[But this is your project.]] The question I have to ask you is: Why do you want to file for office and move two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to rest: Judge Stanisław Rymar and Judge Sławomira Wronkowska, introducing the upper age limit of 70 years? Do you care so much about embezzling the Constitutional Tribunal that you even have acquired rights? That's my question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u424	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What are the reasons, please tell me, for the regulation of the article. 29 prohibiting the de facto public activity of a retired judge of the tribunal? Isn't the aim of the projectors actually to introduce censorship for retired judges in order to prevent them from expressing their views in the public debate? Is the PiS government so afraid of the views of former judges that it is motivated to introduce a regulation that closes their mouths to economic sanctions, including those resulting from the deprivation of the status of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest? You've already got us used to this kind of preventive censorship. The first such law was the Aviation Law law, where you banned the members of the Air Accident Investigation Commission and experts from commenting on the cases they were conducting. You just don't want to have reliable opinions about what happened at Smolensk, as well as what happened at Smolensk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u426	The question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, In drawing up the justification for this bill, did you eat the materials and indictments you made in the 1970s and 1980s during your brilliant and bright career as a prosecutor of the People's Republic of Poland? [[Voice from the room: Insolence.]] By reading into the content of the harmful and absurd law, you can have the indisputable impression that you are trying to return to the black pages of history, when the socialist authority carried out by just the right party decided on every aspect of public life. The judicial authority is the power which is the wall of ideas for the introduction of unlimited government power and the Sejm. With these and many other actions, you are trying to destroy this dam. However, if judicial authority is tried to intimidate, the most simple way is to build the foundation of the authoritarian state. How else can we call the introduction of statutory penalties for public activity that no longer exists for judges of the tribunal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am aware that the criticism that has been falling on you over the last few months is painful, but criticism must be dealt with. Locking people's mouths is just cowardice. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Arek, beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u428	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney of the Polish People's Republic! You want to wear a muzzle to independent judges. Forget your peerless habits, these days are long past. You want to punish the judges if they don't give you the judgments you like. Minister Ziobro has already shown off yesterday, demoting your judge for having ruled against him years ago. The second example is Minister Jaki's Hucpa, who threatens the disciplinary judge also in his private case. Mr. District Attorney, why did you call an illegal justice committee meeting and want to illegally reject the draft anti-abortion bill? [[Not about that.]] The consequence of your illegal activities is that the project can come back at any time and Ordo Iuris is already suing it. And now you want to sue the judges of the Constitutional Court. Why? Because the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal can rule on the unconstitutionality of your medieval anti-abortion bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No judge would allow Minister Ziobro to stand over the bed of women who miscarried to be put in prison. The judges will defend the rights of women in this country and they are our last bastion... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and women will defend the judges as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u430	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u431	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Article 4 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 14 of the proposed law provides for a disciplinary penalty in the form of the submission of a judge to the Tribunal of its own motion. This penalty may be applied in the event of a breach of the Article. 10 of the proposed law, that is, in the case of, first, infringements of the law, except that without specifying which infringement is involved; secondly, the failure of the judge's dignity, also without specifying what is wrong with the dignity of the judge; thirdly, violations of the code of ethics, which we do not know; fourthly, other behaviours that might undermine confidence in his impartiality, which is a clear violation of the principle of independence, and another thing, fifthly, for a misdemeanor. And I wanted to ask: Is the aim of the projector really to circumvent the provisions of the Constitution that refer to the 9-year term of the judge and his immunity? And second question: Who will be honored with drafting the code of ethics and setting standards [[♪ The bell ♪]] With regard to the dignity and impartiality of the judge, which measure will you apply here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u432	She asks the question of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Well, we are proceeding today with another law on the Constitutional Tribunal, which is to immobilize the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, gag, introduce preventive censorship from the Law and Justice side, so that society best forgets that the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland exists. I have a question for the applicants. What is the purpose of the project's author in relation to the proposed form of disciplinary responsibility of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Is this a real attempt to introduce pseudo-punitive liability in order to avoid immunity guaranteed to the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the basic law itself? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u434	The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law provides for the following reasons for the alleged resignation of the office: firstly, the non-transferable profits from commercial companies for public purposes, secondly, the non-subsistence of a declaration of economic activity carried out by the spouse and, thirdly, the non-subsistence of an annual statement of assets. The above provisions impose too far a sanction against administrative misconduct, thereby radically violating the guarantee of independence and the irreparability of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I therefore have a question for the Member of the applicant. Do you provide for similar sanctions against each other, Members, Senators, other officials affected by the obligation to make declarations of property? Or aren't you expecting, and you're just looking for a trivial excuse to get rid of the inconvenient judges of the tribunal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u436	The question is asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u437	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the following question for your applicants. Why will the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, as the person denouncing another judge of the Constitutional Tribunal in connection with the alleged disciplinary offence, have the opportunity to adjudicate simultaneously in the composition of the disciplinary court in this case? What is involved in the operation of a judge who is to serve as a prosecutor and a de facto police officer and judge? Is this a way of using such a judge for purely instrumental purposes in implementing the gag policy or limiting the rights of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u438	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is another of the projects concerning the Constitutional Tribunal discussed over the last few months, although I have the impression that there are more topics that we should talk about, which are much more important from the country's point of view. You have achieved one effect, such that there are no Members on the right side of the room, there are applicants and four people. The opposition is and will be interested in the project, the opposition, especially the Modern one, will always be interested in this subject, because you must remember that the Constitutional Tribunal is an institution that was created for a reason, an institution that was created to defend democracy. I have a very specific question about the disciplinary court. Why did you decide to reduce your membership? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I and II instances respectively from 5 to 3 people and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u440	Thank you. The question you are asking is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u441	...from 7 to 5? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u442	... Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Why do you want to transfer the actual decision to the President about who has the status of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? The connection between the establishment of a service relationship and the taking of a vow to the President actually marginalizes the role of the Sejm, and this Sejm is indicated in the Constitution as the one who elects the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and the President is merely a notary of this decision? And one more point. Well, Mr Piotrowicz, you have prepared four laws that have proved to be unconstitutional. This fifth also bears the marks of unconstitutionality. We have an institution like a third-century university. Maybe it would be a good idea to take advantage of that, rehearse a little bit of knowledge. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I think that maybe then we will see some legislation that you will draw up and which will be in line with the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u444	The question is asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I think that you, as a practice, will understand the meaning of my question. Well, in countries that turn to authoritarianism, they try to change the meaning of concepts. Therefore, I would like to ask you how you understand democracy, the rule of law, the rule of law, human rights, the division of power, as you understand these concepts, because I have the overwhelming impression that since the year you have ruled and you have been one of the faces of these changes, you have been trying to change the meaning of concepts, such fundamentals that have been clear and defined forever. So please explain - in the context of this law, it is very important - what is the rule of law for you, what is the division of power for you, what is independence and independence of courts for you. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u446	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicant concerns the truthfulness of the intention. What is the purpose of making publicly available and publicly available claims? After all, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are now making appropriate statements to the first President of the Supreme Court, who controls the correctness of these statements of property. What are some reasons for making the real acquis available in the period before taking office? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u448	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal can only be a person of an impeccable character, and in this law you want to create a new ethical code, a code for 12 people. I wonder why. So do you admit that you do not have the capacity as a majority of the Seyms to choose such people, ethical people? Or is it a fear that even the judges elected before you may be flawless and ethical? I also have this question for you: How do you, being the representative of the applicants of this law, feel about your ethics, your ethical behaviour? Because it was you many years ago in a very unethical and outrageous manner that behaved against a paedophile priest you acquitted. How's your ethics? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u450	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear from the discussion that there are no arguments available for Members of the opposition. There is more virulence, malice and personal tours than substantive issues. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We're learning from you.]] Persons performing public functions shall make declarations of property. These statements shall be made public and published in the Public Information Bulletin. Why wouldn't the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal do that? This is done by local governments, by parliamentarians, and by judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I have two questions. Will the project submitted provide greater transparency, transparency of the exercise of the public role of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[He won't.]] Does the obligation to publish statements of property of judges of the Tribunal in the Public Information Bulletin not affect their privacy? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Honestly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u452	The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got another repair bill ahead of us that's gonna fix the previous repair laws. The judges of the resting tribunal in connection with this Act will not be able to critically comment on the actions of the governing option. It's like in old Russia: the state is you, and since the state is paying them, keep it quiet. You've put a juggle on the Constitutional Tribunal by previous laws. You are spoiling the three divisions of power and Polish democracy. You don't even accept criticism from the EU institutions. You can't ban them from talking, but you'll do it to the former judges of the tribunal, legally gagging their mouths. Mr Piotrowicz, you spoke about standards. Where are they then? Why is the government afraid of comments from former judges of the tribunal, professionals and practitioners with social authority? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it because they're right, authority and social respect, unlike you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u454	The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal was a great achievement of the Polish legal system. In fact, the Constitutional Tribunal protects the rights and freedoms of citizens, the rights and freedoms of those who are weaker in relations with power. Are you, by lowering the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal, carrying out actions that are really going to humiliate this body and the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, so humanly not ashamed? Because you're a lawyer, after all, just like the other lawyers, you received an education at the university where you studied state systems, systems based on division of power. The division of power is the division between several authorities in a way that is designed to inhibit them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but at the same time ensure cooperation. Aren't you ashamed that you want to destroy it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u456	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u457	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a scandal, it's another assassination attempt on the Constitutional Tribunal, it's another assassination on the Constitution. And I am very surprised that the Marshal and the Sejm Bureau did not refer this project to the Legislative Committee. There is no opinion on constitutional compatibility. In the case of our projects, our opposition projects, you're crawling with us, trying to find a lock to keep them out of the process. Was this idea born, Mr applicant, in your head or in Novgorodska? Is it an assassination attempt on judges to file a public judge, not to speak out in public matters? Member of the Commission, one of the PiS Member spoke about property statements. And why didn't your president want to say that he borrowed money from his friend, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was he obliged to do that? If it's standards, it's for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u458	The question is asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u459	Don't try to assassinate the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u460	...Citizen Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I'd like to ask you the point of art. 12 in which you wish to authorise the President to request disciplinary action in respect of both judges and retired judges. Are there at all known to the applicant any such solutions used in other European countries, generally in Europe, or can the President, the head of state, ask for punishments for the judges of the constitutional tribunal, for the constitutional court? This is an absurd solution, all the more so: at the request of the Attorney General. Please note, if today the Attorney General is taking revenge on the judge of the district court, withdrawing her delegation to the district court because she once issued a judgment adverse to him, then what will it be with the judges of the constitutional court who can criticize power and still issue judgments adversely to the executive and legislative authorities, because that is the essence of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can imagine a country where there won't be a PiS, you're going the best way to AWS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u462	The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the applicant. Continuing this thread, which Mr Kropiwnicki raised: What European solutions were modelled on in defining these disciplinary penalties? In which European country do such disciplinary penalties exist, including the surrender of the judge of the tribunal as well as the retired judge? As if you could give such examples of a European country. Following this line: What will be the opportunity for those who will be punished to appeal? And do you have any idea that if you're in the court's ruling criticizing the bill that was adopted by the PiS government... Will this be treated as an infringement, an unworthy attitude of the judge? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u464	The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, one of the most important articles in this project is art. 23 referring to the disclosure of claims of property, the fact that we impose an obligation to publish before the judges of the Tribunal - the obligation to submit, but the obligation to make such declarations of property public. How is it that local government officials - the mayors, mayors, councillors - make such statements... [[And the president's lying.]] ...and the judges don't fold? How is it that the resolution authority, the legislative authority - we are talking here about parliamentarians, MEPs, senators - has such a duty, ministers have such a duty and no one makes this a problem... [[What do you mean? Your president's making a problem.]] ...and in the case of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, there is no such obligation? What do the judges of the Constitutional Court have to hide... [[And what suddenly dawned on you after 30 years?]] ...that they don't want to make public statements of property? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u466	The question is asked by Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u467	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Comrade District Attorney! [[Shame on you!]] Because that's how you get drunk in this House about the Constitutional Tribunal. Conrad Wallenrod! Because that's what you're called in the PiS. It's time to drop the mask and answer the right question. And this question is crucial - about independent institutions in Poland, after the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, after the assassination of the Supreme Chamber of Control, because it starts to happen in front of our eyes. My question is, when are you going to assassinate another independent institution, what is the ombudsman? And I'm asking you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u468	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Reality is becoming more and more similar to this reality of the 1960s. As Alexander Zawadzki, the head of the Council of State, said to the Supreme Court: I would like to express my sincere conviction that your work, comrades and citizens of judges, will fulfil the hopes that our state and the party will connect with the reform of the Supreme Court, that the activities of this court in the chosen Council of your composition will always be dictated by the deep concern for the interests of our state and the rights of its citizens. More and more the laws proposed by you, the language you are using, scaring Poles to the West, the Council of Europe, the European Union, resembles this reality of the 1960s. Hence the question: Who tells you the system solutions from the East? Why do you want to exaggerate Poland from this Western European trunk into the trunk of the Eastern, Post-Soviet civilization? What's with all the crazy ideas? [[Applause]] [[Fear to be afraid.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u470	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u471	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, the Modern is filing for the rejection of this scandalous bill. Secondly, to the lady here who wanted arguments and strong things. These are specific questions. Why do you, contrary to the Constitution, grant the President the power to demand disciplinary action? The Constitution does not confer such powers among the President's responsibilities and powers. Isn't this another attempt to circumvent the Constitution? And another question. The designer introduces a new concept of the dignity of the retired judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, whose infringement he sanctiones, subjecting retired judges to the code of ethics regime. What is the purpose of such conduct as set out in the Act? Is this a revenge announcement for Professor Rzepliński? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u472	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm afraid I have to... Mr. District Attorney! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, you refer to the report of experts, which you have already mentioned here many times today, and yet you have not been kind enough to consult BAS, not to mention a public consultation. All this justification is, of course, one great demagogy, so I would like to ask the question: Did it not occur in your clear minds that the embodiment has introduced rules governing the status of judge of the tribunal in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland just so that people like you do not come to mind to tamper by him, guided by his miserable, short-sighted and particularist [[♪ The bell ♪]] Business? [[Socialist business.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u474	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u475	This legal shit you're trying to push through is another step to humiliate the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in order to depreciate their position and the importance of the tribunal itself. The nation will never forgive you for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u476	Mr President, you are done. [[Bravo, Peter! Beautiful.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Mr. Marshal is weakening.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's bill is another law from the cycle: Blow up the Constitutional Tribunal. We see all - the whole of Poland sees and has no delusions - your determination... [[All of Poland is ashamed of you.]] ...in total bullying and destroying this institution. But you didn't make it. You haven't been able to completely destroy the Constitutional Court yet, so you've decided to fight the individual judges. Please say: In what civilized country are doctors deciding whether or not judges can judge? And say, "How many judges are there?" Over 70 years of age? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Beautiful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u478	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, the applicant's representative, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many questions have been asked: repeated questions, questions - some concerning the essence of things. Many of them also pointed out that the questioners had not read the bill. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] And they didn't get to know the drafts of the previous laws... [[But the tribunal got acquainted.]] ...and did not get acquainted with the bill prepared and adopted by the Civic Platform. Today, you are tearing your robes apart, asking what law it is, and in which country you are creating laws providing for disciplinary punishment for the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions have been in force since 1997 and even longer. [[It's about the president's conclusion.]] In the law developed and voted by the Civic Platform there are similar provisions concerning the catalogue of penalties, except for one exception... [[But you don't believe it.]] You see, Madam, you must be a man of faith - you, you see, you are not - but you must also be a man of facts and facts. That's why I'm asking you to... And here I have some regret, because I explained in detail, for quite a long time I presented the various provisions of the law. I have pointed out that most of these are solutions such as those that have been in force so far and have not been questioned. I have repeatedly emphasized this, and you have taken it as if this draft law is the only one who is introducing a revolution, punishing judges, introducing disciplinary proceedings. Since the tribunal has been, disciplinary proceedings have been, and since they were, it was also a catalogue of penalties. Disciplinary proceedings also concern judges of the Supreme Court - in the Supreme Court laws - also apply to judges of general courts, also to prosecutors, etc. [[And the retiring judges?]] There's also a certain procedure for disciplinary proceedings... [[But the judges aren't at rest.]] I'll get to it right away, but let me... I wanted to say that a lot of questions have been about what's been going on for years. I would like to focus on those questions that have concerned the newly introduced solutions. You say - because you refer to this many times - that the Polish system is built on a principle of three divisions of authorities, and you read this principle by asking some questions, I will point out which ones. You say we want to gag the courts of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Isn't it?]] [[The voice from the room: Of course it is.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you not see a conflict arising from the principle of division of power? [[That's a very good rule.]] Is the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal the person, in your opinion, who has the right to act publicly, to get into politics and to criticize? That's not what the judge was called for. That's what it's all about. It's about dividing the authorities that everyone does what they do. [[Eureka!]] The legislative authority is to create the law, organise the judiciary... [[Call off the judges.]] ...regulate the proceedings before the judiciary. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You call them a group of guys.]] The judicial authority is a separate authority. The judges are free to... [[Please answer the questions.]] ...as regards the ruling and condition of the legislative or executive authority from the operation, action, judgment of any judicial authority. And we don't do that, but we do our constitutional duty. Art. 197 of the Constitution, after all, clearly states what belongs to the legislative authority. You say, well, although it is debatable, whether an active judge of the Constitutional Tribunal can publicly speak and criticize. Of course not. Of course he can't do that, and he doesn't do it anywhere in the world. The only place in which a judge reveals his views is by judgment, my dear state, this is the time of judgment. [[A voice from the room: No!]] If you say that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal no longer marries, no longer performs his duties, he should therefore have the right to participate in political life, then I do not question this right, but it must be decided. If a retiring judge wants to take over political roles, he can renounce... [[And the D.A.?]] [[Not political, but as a citizen, he has the right to speak.]] ...of the retired judge's status. He'll resign as a retired judge, he can become an active politician, there's a choice. [[Voice from the room: It's embarrassing.]] This is due to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal cited by me, which the State did not hear. [[We gag people's mouths. That's not our role.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, the judge of the tribunal, if he accepts certain functions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u480	Madam, you do not have the floor now, so do not interfere with the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u481	...agreeing to certain limitations. [[You can't listen to that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u482	I'm warning you, I'm gonna draw consequences for you. [[Please don't disturb me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u483	You say, I will return to the fact that the judge of the tribunal at rest is now free, can enter political roles, comment, criticize, and I would like to remind you of your position in previous terms. [[You can't listen to this.]] This was true of the retired prosecutors who won the parliamentary elections. It was then claimed that if they are retired prosecutors, they are not doing any work. Therefore, they may be parliamentarians... [[Are you talking about yourself?]] ...but this country... No, ma'am, I've given up my profession a long time ago, and you know it. You know that very well. I did it 11 years ago. At the time, you said, but nothing like that, the D.A. at rest is still a prosecutor. At the initiative of Marshal Schetin, the term of office of two retired prosecutors was extinguished. It was then decided by the Supreme Court that the District Attorney at Rest is still a prosecutor and therefore cannot perform a public office. So how do you look today? And today you say that the judge of the Constitutional Court at rest... [[But the prosecutors could have spoken.]] ...maybe he's a politician and that doesn't stand in the way? Make up your mind about something.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u484	Mr President, I warn you that you are interfering with the deliberations and I will draw the consequences. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: As PiS Members were disturbing yesterday, that was no problem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u485	You say in your speeches that there is no opinion of the Supreme Court regarding the draft law, the National Courts Council. I want to assure you that we are only after the presentation of the project and such opinions will certainly be consulted in due time. You're saying that asking for a medical certificate is against the constitution. Are you saying that when every employee is obliged to present to the employer a medical certificate that he is capable of working, it is also a violation of the constitution? After all, we in the bill only specify that until the judge exceeds 70. A year old. This is, on the one hand, a concern for the judge's health. If he is well, he will submit a certificate to the President that he is fit to work and, of course, continue his term of office. Waiting for a medical certificate doesn't interrupt your term of office. The term of office shall not be interrupted, it must be stated clearly and with all force. You're saying that we're referring to Eastern patterns, etc., a lot of invectives at this address. Ladies and gentlemen, who nailed turtles with a dictator from the East? A little humility in all of this, a little humility in all of this. [[Applause]] The interference of the legislative authority with the judiciary, says Mr Protasiewicz, because we want to regulate the status of judge. Mr President, the division of power and the balance of power are constitutional provisions. Balance is not a vain record, but for it to be provided, instruments must be for it to weigh. I stress this once again: the tribunal is independent, the judges are not bound by judgment, and, according to the Constitution, the organisation of the tribunal and the procedure before it is determined by the legislator, Article. 197 constitutions, please read this. In front of common courts, too. The organisation of common courts is the competence of Parliament. The procedure before common courts - Parliament's competence, after all, all codes are created in parliament, dear country. On the other hand, the legislator and the executive authority are not in the sphere of case law. [[The word "wara" in the Seym?]] That's the division, and it's worth remembering once and for all. You say, Mr Protasiewicz, that judges who have not been sworn in, however this does not involve the current project, have been properly chosen. What is this statement based on? After all, and the Constitutional Tribunal refused to answer this question, stating that there is no right to examine individual resolutions of the Sejm, so-called. non-normative. He expressly stated in his ruling that he was not entitled to examine the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's worth remembering, too, because you go back to it and repeat it. The election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is a sovereign decision of Parliament. That's what the separation of authorities is all about. The judges are elected by parliament and it is he who decides on validity and annulment, and when they become judges, they are free to... [[This is bullshit.]] ...in the sphere of case law, there's nothing Parliament can do about it. You have heard, because I also quoted this ruling of the Constitutional Court, which spoke about the importance of vowing in the Polish legal system. It's not just an uplifting, solemn act, it's an act with which the law has certain legal effects. I've been quoting this ruling, and you've listened carefully, and I'm not going to say it again now. [[Read, read, read.]] Therefore, since the oath was not accepted and was taken by the Sejm, an independent Sejm within its autonomy, a resolution stating that what you did in the previous term could not produce legal effects... on the other hand, I admire you too, that you are so critical and stand up for the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Do you admire us?]] And good, but do you know the content of the e-mail correspondence of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Does such statements of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and such correspondence not defy the seriousness? In my opinion, yes, and at the same time, it shows lack of impartiality and lack of apoliticality. Why is it that the judges at that time - because they clearly stated that you had assassinated the Constitutional Tribunal, that you introduced non-constitutional rules, they saw it - they did not sound all over and because the laws were against the Constitution? No. They kept quiet and they were trying to figure out how to keep this milk from spilling so the public wouldn't know about it. It is then that the judges exchange correspondence among themselves and say: maybe it is good that President Rzepliński contact Prime Minister Kopacz to accept some line of defense in case PiS reveals it, because if PiS reveals it, it will be a great embarrassment. And why are we dealing with other standards in the behaviour of judges who run around the media and criticize laws they have not yet seen? Do you see this schizophrenia? Because I do. [[I don't see it.]] [[I can see it.]] Mr Ireneusz Gaina drew attention to the unfortunateness of the wording in the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 - It must be stated that, since there are certain rights which are available to one judge, there is no need to duplicate the record and to claim that a group of judges may make a similar request. Rightly, we have also drawn attention to this and we will correct the rules in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u486	Is that all, sir? [[Voice from the room: Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u487	No, just a second. You use strong words, but the worst part is... I'm open to criticism, while there are empty words, empty words - maces, and there's no legal polemics. Where are these laws so incompatible with the constitution? I can't hear that. [[Age.]] [[Age.]] But after all, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is in office for a full term of nine years, and this is clearly stated in the bill. The fact that, at the age of 70, he submits a certificate that he is fit for health reasons to perform his duties, that is concern, I have already said... [[Then have Minister Macierewicz file such a certificate as well. He may not get one.]] ...and for him, and for the welfare of the servants. [[This is bullshit.]] You're telling me... Again, on a specific argument is the term "bullshit," etc., but this is typical of the Platform - generals, without specifics. [[We talk in a minute and he talks.]] You're saying that you're destroying the tribunal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u488	Mr President, I warn you that you are interfering with the work you are doing. [[You're bothered by everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u489	...paralysis of the tribunal, words you've been saying like a mantra for months now, and there's nothing concrete about it. You're outraged by property claims...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u490	Then you complain about the punishment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u491	...that they have judges to fold them. Property claims are to be filed by all... [[Don't scare me.]] ...important officers in this country. And this is the European standard, this is the world standard, in the name of the transparency of life. A lot of questions just repeat themselves. Mr Romansky rightly pointed out that 70% the rules contained in this Act are already existing. You are right, from which I started my speech - this law is a gathering of all the legal regulations concerning the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in one piece of legislation, so it is ordering the law. You say that we want to start another war with the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u492	There will be no correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u493	Mr President, it is the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the e-mail that say that you did it - that you did it. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] Okay, I'm gonna quote right now what the judges are e-mailing, but I don't think that's gonna be nice. [[Shame.]] The modern representative again uses the general words: the liquidation of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. About what? Again, there is no argument as to what this mechanism of eliminating independence is to be based on. Do you think that the division of power is that it is the judicial authority itself who decides what it will do, how it will do, how it will organise itself, how it will appoint itself, how it will appoint itself, how it will ignore all other laws? Because how do you explain the behavior of the president who says, "I don't see this bill, and I won't abide by this bill... [[And I don't see that ruling, I won't publish that judgment.]] ...and I'm not interested in the Constitutional Court Act? [[And I don't publish judgment.]] No, it's... No, it doesn't concern you. Using phrases: you want to keep judges on a leash - again generals, generals that have nothing to do with reality. Please indicate this mechanism. You're saying a violation of the jury's term of office. What kind of breach? The term of office lasts 9 years and we repeat that the bill begins with this, the term of office of the judge lasts 9 years, and the state, contrary to the record, you say: violation of the term of office of the judges. How can we discuss in substance how someone does not know the rules or shows bad will? He does, but he does, because he's hoping those who listen don't know the bill and take those lying words for a good coin. Marshal Dolnyak says...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u494	You name the people who asked the questions. I'm telling you in advance that I'm not gonna be any of the people you're telling me I'm gonna give the floor as a correction. [[Thanks for the mercy. What's the law?]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: The Lord presumes that he will not speak.]] [[Upstairs!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u495	The next question is that there are no transitional provisions. [[Speak to us at all.]] Of course there are no transitional provisions, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u496	You are interfering with the proceedings, Mr Nitras. [[You are violating the rights of Members.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u497	...it was announced that the transitional provisions would contain a separate law, which is indicated in this law. [[It should be together.]] You're repeating again like a mantra in the next few questions that the judges have taken a vow, and they haven't been given a valid election. [[You're going to court.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on what basis do you state this? And who had it... You're saying they weren't chosen seriously. What do you mean, who? Did the Members say that? The Sejm said, the Sejm chose. [[Applause]] [[That's what the Court said.]] [[In June last year he also chose.]] No, I was just quoting you, sir. In its judgment, the Court stated that there is no right to review individual resolutions of the Sejm, so-called. non-normative, okay? He gave the ruling. [[It's a lie again. It's a lie.]] The Constitutional Tribunal issued such a judgment. [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[Can the Sejm change the bill by resolution?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u498	Mr President, you have no voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u499	The next question is that punishment for judges may be requested by the Attorney General. Bad will or ignorance of the rule of law? No, it's not. A disciplinary court consisting of judges is being punished against judges and I have repeatedly stressed that disciplinary proceedings are an internal decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. No one has the right to bring proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal... [[President.]] ...no one has the right to conduct disciplinary proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. It's clearly written down. Ladies and gentlemen, please read with understanding. The President has the right to signal, and this is not binding on the tribunal - a clear provision, and the disciplinary officer decides whether to initiate proceedings or not. This is a fundamental difference, because it can say that there are no grounds for initiating proceedings, and it refuses to initiate disciplinary action. I think that's clear from the recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u500	Mr President, is this the end?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u501	I'm still looking because there were a lot of questions. [[That's enough.]] Some of them are repeating themselves, which is why it's a question of how I can fish out the ones that... [[Why the constitutional assassination?]] Again, questions about the paralysis of the tribunal, just empty words. [[What about the constitutional assassination?]] [[Empty is the bill.]] The code of ethics, you asked about the code of ethics, what it is and who will adopt it. The Code of Ethics will be adopted by the Constitutional Tribunal, for itself - and that is normal, that is the autonomous decision of the Constitutional Tribunal - no one else. This is a legal act adopted by the Constitutional Tribunal. The Act indicates the need for the Constitutional Tribunal to adopt such legislation. [[Let's write this down.]] It says in the bill that... No, just if we were writing a code of ethics, you would raise a column that we're putting a muzzle on, we're saying what's ethical, which is unethical. No, it's a decision. The Constitutional Tribunal. The Court is to draw up a code of ethics because the bill provides for this. What he's gonna look like, what he's gonna predict, that's the case. The Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u502	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u503	The question is, one of the messengers says, On what basis can the Attorney General file a judge? Ladies and gentlemen, there are no such records in the bill. The Attorney General doesn't have that kind of authority. Only a disciplinary court composed of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may lodge a judge of its own motion. I don't know if it's so hard to read these few articles? But sometimes I get the impression that you deliberately invent a fictional state of fact, a fictional state of law, to be outraged at him. Because how can I explain it differently, since it is clearly written: disciplinary action is an internal matter of the Constitutional Tribunal, no outsider participates in disciplinary proceedings, only judges. So how can you ask such things? What kind of doctor is gonna issue a certificate? The one who's got medical clearance. [[Dr. Mengele.]] What are the grounds for restricting public freedom for retired judges? Such that they are still judges of the Constitutional Tribunal - at rest. They enjoy certain privileges. If they want to take part in political life, there's nothing to prevent them from going free. The judge relinquishs his retirement, goes into politics. You can't do both, and that's in line with the principle that you're referring to: the rules of division of authorities. You're screaming about division, and that doesn't bother you. We're just putting in a very clear recipe. If the division of authorities - and the division of authorities - is to be consistent. Another question. Why do we forbid the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to work after 70 years of age? No, it's not. There's no record of that. The term of office shall be nine years. [[And if he doesn't get a medical certificate, then what?]] It's gonna die behind a desk and somebody's gonna be responsible for that, isn't it? [[That's your concern.]] Please note that this applies to people who have reached a certain age. It doesn't bother you... [[We're worried about you.]] ...that such medical certificates must be submitted to the Supreme Court. [[What about the marshals?]] That doesn't bother you, does it? [[But this is not governed by the Constitution.]] There you do not ask who will issue these certificates or why. He's the judge. Then why? [[We're worried about your health.]] My health? I'm still a little short of 70 years, so I'm afraid I'm still... [[But biologically, you have more.]] Thank you very much for your concern. I'm always very grateful to all of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u504	Mr President, please do not enter into discussions with the Chamber, but move towards the finals, to conclusions. [[The room is the enemy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u505	A lot of speeches were personal attacks on me. That's how I feel about it. There are no arguments, you're hitting me with wicked methods, contrary to facts. I would like to say that these statements violate the law in this House, because if someone addresses me as a prosecutor, it means he tolerates an illegal state of affairs. The D.A. can't be an MP, and since he's an MP, that's because he's not a D.A. [[Applause]] It's good for the lawyers to know. [[What about Minister Ziobra?]] [[What about the Attorney General?]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't fit here anymore.]] [[Mr. District Attorney, maybe or maybe not?]] You're tearing up your robes again, they say we want to punish the judges. I ignore that this is an internal matter of the Constitutional Tribunal, but the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest also holds immunity. It shall also be decided by the internal disciplinary court at the Constitutional Court to waive immunity at rest. Again, the question is: What is wrong with dignity, and what is wrong with dignity? What's the code of ethics? So what is wrong and what is not wrong will be defined in the code of ethics drawn up by the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. What happens if the judge doesn't make a statement? Why should he be sanctioned? [[And the president?]] Yeah, ladies and gentlemen, it's a simple rule of law. If the law imposes any obligation, regardless of who, if it creates orders and prohibitions, all orders and prohibitions, in any law, must be sanctioned in accordance with the principles of legal art. Otherwise, the law could be ignored. For example, seat belts are ordered, it's about car safety. If there were no sanctions, why would there be such a rule? He'd zip them up if he wanted to. The legal consequences and the art of law therefore demand this. If it is an obligation to make statements, then there must also be a way to enforce that obligation. After all, sanctions also apply to Members who will not do so in due time. Question: "What do I mean by democracy, three divisions of authorities, and what is the rule of law, independence?" As far as democracy is concerned, I will not repeat what is obvious to everyone. Democracy is about listening to people, listening to voters, serving the nation. You want to hand over all your power to a small group of judges, and that's nothing like democracy. You ask me how I understand the three divisions of the authorities. I've told you this before. Each authority is autonomous, independent and each has a constitutional task. The Sejm, too. There is also the autonomy of the Sejm. [[And who's ruling on constitutional compatibility?]] No one has the right to enter certain decisions made by the Sejm, just as the Sejm has no right to enter the judicial sphere of courts and tribunals. [[And who's ruling on constitutional compatibility?]] What is independence? Independence is a matter of judgment. The Member who asked about this showed a certain ignorance of things - unless it was a slip - when he spoke about independent courts. There are no independent courts. [[Independent courts and independent judges.]] The courts are independent, and the judges are independent. I'm asking you, I'm asking you a rhetorical question. You ask about independence and independence, and I ask: What do you think the apoliticality of judges enshrined in the Constitution means? Answer the question: What does a judge's apoliticality mean? [[It means that your Member should not become a judge of the tribunal.]] Can he get into a political fight? Can there be political comments? The obvious thing is that it's not because it's written in the Constitution that he's not allowed to do it. [[And you chose a Member for the tribunal, and we didn't.]] [[You haven't chosen any envoys?]] [[LPR, we don't.]] There were references to my far-off professional activity that I allegedly acquitted someone. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another ignorance of things. The D.A. can't exonerate anyone. The acquittal is the domain of the court, not the prosecutor. It's also worth remembering. [[Applause]] Again, it is said that we want to limit the tribunal that defends weaker citizens, and that I am not ashamed of it. [[Right.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am ashamed when judges embezzle their mission when they lose their attributes of apoliticity and impartiality and engage in a political fight against their own government. That's what I'm ashamed of. That's what I'm ashamed of. And this, my participation in the political fight is not only evidenced by my statement and my observations... [[That doesn't prove anything.]] ...but correspondence between the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, discrediting correspondence proving that... [[That's bullshit.]] ...that judges fight their own government. [[In your opinion, sir.]] [[Sovereign.]] [[What are you talking about? Those e-mails were like our government.]] The question was, do I know a country where the president can signal... [[Signal's signaling.]] ...a violation by a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Dear country, Poland is a sovereign country. [[Oh!]] The President of the Republic of Poland is the guardian of the Constitution. According to the Constitution... [[That he should appoint judges.]] ...what attitude should the judge of the Constitutional Court present. So, if he sees that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is embezzling the values set out in the Constitution, he has the right and obligation to signal the problem. The rest belongs to the Constitutional Court. There was a question of where disciplinary penalties such as the filing of a judge's office work. They have been in force in Poland since the Constitutional Tribunal existed. In other countries probably also, but in Poland they also apply. This provision shall apply in the law adopted by the Civic Platform in 2015. Take a look at this bill. Today it seems as if you were just born today and discovered certain things. The solutions contained in this law have been in place mostly for many, many years. Why should the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal - another question - not make statements of property? Yeah, why wouldn't they? After all, in the name of transparency and transparency of public life, the Constitutional Tribunal spoke in its judgments about the necessity of making declarations of property, precisely stressing these principles. Even in his reflections, he spoke about where there are limits to the transparency of public life and the disclosure of property claims and where there is the right to privacy. In its ruling, the Constitutional Tribunal points out that if someone decides to take up a public role, it also agrees, and if he does not agree that this function involves entering the private sphere, it may simply not include that function. I clearly quoted this ruling today by the Constitutional Court. The legislator has the right to such regulation in the name of transparency and transparency of public life, in the name of the fight against corruption. I don't know why you want to authorize this one group not to publicly disclose its assets. I don't know what that's supposed to do. Will we raise our hand to other institutions? We don't raise hands on anybody. We are doing what is Parliament's, we are doing the legislation to which the Constitution empowers us. Opinions have been mentioned before. If the bill is submitted for further work, we will, of course, ask for such opinions. I think I've answered all the questions. As I said before, many of them repeated themselves. I would like to stress once again with all my power that we are protecting the division of power, the independence of the tribunal and the independence of the judiciary. And this kind of principle in the Constitution empowers us to clarify at the legislative level that the principle of the division of powers and the balance of authorities should not only be a constitutional provision, but that it should be preserved in practice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u506	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Formal application on behalf of the club.]] [[Correct, Marshal.]] Wait a minute. A motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the proposal in the voting block. [[Mr. Marshal, in formal mode.]] Please, in a formal manner, Mr Budek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u507	Thank you, Marshal. Well, according to the article. Paragraph 184. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I would like to correct the misunderstood statement which he quoted, by my name, by the representative of the applicants. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what you are proposing about the age of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal violates the principle of cadence. Since the judge of the tribunal is elected for 9 years, there is no legal constitutional possibility that the medical certificate will depend on whether he finishes this term or not. What you are proposing to judges at rest is not adequate for prosecutors at rest, because it is the constitution that prohibits prosecutors from serving as a Member also at rest, and neither could the judge of the Tribunal be a Member. But these are two other things. That is something that the Member did not understand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u508	Mr. President, you have abused... [[What?]] ... formal application forms. In this situation, in the correction mode, I must allow another person... [[Exactly.]] ...who was asking for it, that is, Mr Protasiewicz. You're welcome. One minute. [[The formal conclusion is also a corrigendum, Article. 184.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u509	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I, too, feel that Mr Piotrowicz did not understand the thesis that I was saying about the need to maintain autonomy and a threefold division of power, because I did not mean that they could not regulate parliaments on the functioning of courts, including the Constitutional Tribunal. I agree with you, sir, of course they do. The legislative authority shall lay down the rules according to which all other public authorities operate, but the danger is when the executive authority - I have made it clear in my speech - begins to assume control functions, to account for independent independent judges. And that's the danger, and here's the limit you're crossing in the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u510	We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act on the Social Insurance System (prints No 842 and 899). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, During the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 5 October, the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Tax Administration and the Act on Social Insurance, print No 842. On behalf of the Members of the applicant, the objective of the proposed amendments to the above-mentioned amendments is set out. the laws, the way in which it is implemented, and the discussion has been held. The aim of the project is, generally speaking, to increase the effectiveness of the enforcement of the obligations relating to income tax on individuals and insurance premiums by the Ministry of Finance and the Social Security Office, as well as access to data relating to taxpayers and insured persons, their verification and use for the development of analyses and forecasts concerning the above mentioned. civil duties. The preparation of such forecasts is quite understandable; it is part of tax, health, economic and social policy. And the proposed records are intended to facilitate and guarantee greater access to the data available to the Minister of Finance and the Social Security Office by exchanging this information between the Ministry of Finance and the Social Security Office. During the work in the committee, doubts raised the security of personal data, which, according to some of the members of the committee, are threatened by the flow of information from the Ministry of Finance to the Social Security Office and vice versa. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the Social Security Office present at the meeting do not share these concerns, claiming that today such access to data takes place in both ministries, as well as in the Social Security Office. In accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and other provisions, the confidentiality of personal data is sufficiently protected by law. In this respect, and also from the analysis provided to us by the Sejm Analysis Office, these proposed amendments respect the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, and the Regulation of the European Parliament to replace and enter into force from 2018. The protection of personal data is a high priority in European documents, but as the documents cited here show, there is a consent to the processing of data in the public interest in the exercise of public authority. This prohibition on the processing of health data is particularly strongly emphasised in European documents, e.g. with regard to disability. However, in this case, the data contained in the Social Insurance Institution's documents concerning insured persons are, as an exception, covered by European documents, and in this respect are also excluded from the prohibition on the use of data. Two amendments were tabled during the discussion. [[Three.]] Two corrections. [[And the date of entry into force?]] The first amendment concerns the fact that the Tax Administration Act is currently in the vacathio legis period. If this provision concerning the obligation to transfer data by the Ministry of Finance to the Social Security Office had been left in this law during the period of vacathio legis, this could not have been implemented. That is why we have proposed that this provision be transferred as an article. 8c to the Act of 21 June 1996 on tax offices and tax chambers - at the stage of the committee's work. This is consistent with legislative practice, there can be no reservations here. We also proposed an amendment concerning the date of entry into force of the law. We proposed to shorten the date of entry into force of the Act until the day following the publication period. These amendments have been voted by a majority of committee members, accepted and are included in the committee's work report on this printing. I ask for their support in further work in the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u512	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax Administration and the Act on Social Security from Print No 842. This bill was sent to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading. The first reading and examination of this project took place on 4 October this year. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that information can be exchanged between the Social Insurance Institution and the Ministry of Finance to the extent that it is possible to carry out analyses, forecasts and forecasting models and to verify the data held by both institutions. Such data flows will allow for the harmonisation and clarification of the data of payers and insured persons who are simultaneously taxable persons. In the current legal state, data held by the Ministry of Finance and the Social Insurance Institution may be made available to each other in the form of anonymous data sets or aggregated statistics. Following the adoption of the provisions proposed in this Act, it will be possible to make available the data in question about the insured persons, taxpayers and payers concerned in order to allow for the correlation of the individual data held by the tax offices and the Social Insurance Institution. Wide access and analysis of data should enable the Ministry of Finance to assess the financial consequences for citizens, businesses and public finances in certain regulatory projects. The exchange between the two institutions of these data will enable the Ministry of Finance to fulfil its obligations under Article more effectively. 74 and 174 Public Finance Laws, which require the Minister of Finance to exercise control over the level of sovereign government debt and the deficit of the public finance sector, which includes the Social Insurance Fund. It is worth noting that this draft law does not have any financial implications for the state budget and the budgets of the local government. The European Union's position on the subject of this law has been widely discussed by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the vote, together with the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u514	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u515	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not share this self-esteem with the applicant representing the Committee on Public Finance and the Member of Law and Justice. I would like to begin by explaining that this project has been voted by a majority in committee, by Members of Law and Justice. All the members of the opposition club committee were against it. As for the project, this is another parliamentary project, which - we are used to - is already being submitted to the High House. If the government needs analytical information from every taxpayer, it should seek such a project, work it out, consult it. That's why we're against this mode. Why is this mode wrong? Three articles and three amendments. The applicants themselves, when submitting this project, did not know what law they wanted to amend. It was only during the meeting that they were amending a law that would come into force later than they had established themselves. So three articles, three amendments. Comments on compliance with European Union law. Yes, it is true that, in the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, it is appropriate that, in the case of an important public interest, it is necessary to process data related to health information, and it is very clear that this should be carried out in such a way as to protect the fundamental rights and interests of the data subject. And in this case, there's a desire to reach the data. We do not say that data is needed to build specific models. It's true, it was before. But today, if this is an important public interest, it should indicate what the level of access is and what the level of protection of this information is. What are we missing? It's a basic thing. It's not the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau that's gonna be enough for us. This should be the position of the Foreign Minister on the compatibility of the project with European Union law. And that's what we demand. We also demand the opinion of the General Data Protection Officer on whether our individual information at the Social Insurance Institution has been properly secured. Our attention and doubts are also that for the purpose of building models there was a shortage of Members of the applicants, as well as the government who proposed specific amendments, information about persons insured in the KRUS, for example paying tax on special departments. And in this respect, we believe that it is not necessarily the pure, clear intention of the bill. Therefore, as a club, we also expect information from the General Data Protection Officer. What wasn't? There was no consultation. You're used to not making them. Then what's this government doing? This government only displays slides and talks about the construction of programs or, as it has just just done, makes another assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal. We need... No impact assessment has been indicated here, and therefore it has not been shown whether additional measures are needed, for example, for the inspector... means, for those who will manage this information, and how much information will be provided. Why do we say that this access may be too wide and may raise doubts? The fact that you want information about taxpayers is normal, but you also want information about their spouses. So we think that this is not necessarily a good project. We're making an amendment. We are amending the date of entry into force of the Act so that it enters into force after 14 days, as the State in the original submission expected. And in the process of this project and before making a decision by my club [[♪ The bell ♪]] We look forward to hearing from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about compliance with European Union law and whether all...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u516	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u517	... whether the protection of personal data, on the opinion of GIODO, has been properly recorded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u518	Mr Blazej Pard will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u519	You're welcome, Marshal, an amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u520	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Law on tax offices and tax chambers and the Act on the social security system allows to collect and combine tax data with insurance data. Yesterday was the first reading, today is the report, tomorrow will be the vote, so in 48 hours we will adopt this law. It surprises very fast procedure, which raises some doubts about the intention of the bill itself. This is also linked to these numerous amendments. I don't know why you're in such a hurry. Of course, in haste we often make many mistakes. I have completed studies in quantitative methods and information systems in the economy, so I am aware of how important and how necessary data are, accurate data to forecast, analyse, create models or detect abuse. In addition, the combined bases will allow for a more precise, I hope, definition of budgetary plans. And it's probably not gonna bring extra costs to the budget, or maybe it's gonna benefit, although we'll really see about that. Therefore, we are rather positive about these solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u522	Thank you very much. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska will now speak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This bill speaks of very sensitive data. That's where the speech is. not only by name, how much someone has a tax to pay, what contributions he pays to the Social Security Office, but also what degree of disability he has, which children are insured under his insurance, are data on spouses. And as such a club Modern does not deny the validity of this law. We do not deny, I mean, we understand that more data is needed to carry out certain tasks for offices, well, if these data are transmitted to each other, it makes no sense to bear the additional costs associated with obtaining them in some more veiled way, while there is a great need to safeguard citizens' rights, personal data, because the percentage of these data referred to in the Act is sensitive data which, according to the Constitution, and other laws should be protected. So we have a great problem with the quality of this bill. The bill should not be a parliamentary project. It is a law that regulates certain relationships between the various offices, the CSOs and the offices subordinate to the finance minister, and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, such a law should go through some professional consultation with experts and be prosecuted by the government. We understand that the rulers are in a hurry, but unfortunately the rush cannot be put above the rights of citizens, and especially beyond ensuring that these citizens' data is well protected. Not presented e.g. in general the opinion of the General Data Protection Officer, whose representative was not present at the committee's meeting, so he was unable to answer a number of questions that were raised by Members, mainly questions about whether these personal data will be further adequately secured, and I would remind you that one of the tasks of GIODO is to evaluate such draft laws. What comments do we have on this bill? The Act does not specify precisely the purposes for which data can be shared. The Act only refers to the performance of statutory tasks, the creation of analyses, forecasts and forecast models and the verification of data. The objectives should be much narrower, we should move here within the framework of well-defined objectives, so that we may even be able to control backwards how the law works in practice. We should be able to check, for example. who and for what specific purpose, to perform what specific task he was downloading data. Today, the law does not give, does not take at all, does not regulate it at all. Only with this control can we determine whether the transferred data is adequate to the tasks performed by the individual institutions, and only then are we able to determine whether the condition referred to in the Constitution is fulfilled that these data should only be transmitted for certain purposes, including in the case of certain necessary public tasks, and whether the transferred data are actually necessary for the performance of a given task, or whether it is not so that someone, using the fact that he has access to the data, will use these privileges of access for completely different purposes which are incompatible with what the Act says. The project also does not address technical issues at all, precisely how technically, physically the data of persons who will be transferred between offices will be protected. It is all these questions that we would find the answer to, and they are very important in terms of data security, if we had a GIODO opinion. Otherwise, the Modern Club, even though we understand the purpose, is unable to support 100% of this project without certainty. If nothing changes in the process further, we will most likely abstain. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we'll see what tomorrow brings, because the bill, as I've heard, will go back to committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u524	Thank you. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mrs Genowef Tokarska will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Act on Tax Administration and the Act on Social Insurance. The draft of this law concerns the provision of information exchange between the Social Insurance Institution and the Ministry of Finance. This will be the mutual information necessary for the development of analyses, forecasts as well as for the implementation of analytical and reporting tasks. We have no objection as to the purpose itself. It is known that such information should be exchanged between institutions and that this should not give rise to any greater doubt. On the other hand, it raises concerns about the process of the project itself. The first reading took place at the meeting of the Public Finance Committee yesterday. Of course, the project as a parliamentary project does not contain any arrangements, consultations, not even inter-ministerial arrangements, because it is not a government project. The Commission gave a positive opinion and adopted the whole project. Several changes have been made in the course of the work. I would say that these changes are specific, complementary, editorial. Of course, the date of entry into force has been changed. The original version was: 14 days after the date of the notice and was changed to: the day following the date of the notice. The Club of the Polish People's Party, also having certain doubts, will express its position in the vote, but this is the basic reservation that we have for this project, that is, of course, the fact that the project is not a government project. Believe me, I no longer know how to draw your attention, to turn you back from this wrong path of bad, hasty procedure without opinion, without consultation, without agreement. This is already becoming common in the Law and Justice issue and this procedure is simply unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u526	Thank you. Now on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Tax Administration and the Act on Social Insurance. This amendment provides for the possibility for the Ministry of Finance and the Social Insurance Institution, at the request of any of these authorities, to exchange the data specified in detail in the draft. The exchange of information listed in the novel is intended to take place for specific purposes in the field of the performance of the statutory tasks of both institutions. In the case of the Ministry of Finance, this possibility will first of all have a positive impact on the quality and reality of their analyses, forecasts and forecasting models. The benefits that the project provides for the Social Insurance Institution are to increase the efficiency of the collection of contributions. In addition, both authorities will be able to verify their information. The regulations proposed by the applicants are a major facilitation for both bodies concerned. They also take into account the ongoing work on tax harmonisation. In view of the fact that the institutions concerned by the proposed regulation serve the public interest, I do not agree with the argument that the draft of the revised amendment does not guarantee the safety of citizens. At the same time, we are aware that there may be doubts about who will have access to the information provided and how it will be provided in the project. I hope that this will be clarified in the course of further work. The positive opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office on the compatibility of the proposed novel with EU law is important for our position. Thus, assuming that the proposed solution has many benefits, we will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u528	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, the Kukiz Club15, joined the question. You're welcome, sir. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We're talking about two giants: ZUS and the IRS. Turns out the two giants who take public tributes were deaf, blind, and didn't know anything about their being. It is quite sad news that, after 26 years, two institutions were in the dark, and the finance minister had to build a budget, you can say, for sense. There's one question that's important in all of this. The lack of information is very harmful, but the excess information is even more harmful. Question: "How much of this operation can the state's budget really gain thanks to this knowledge?" Can taxpayers feel this in a positive or negative way? And the second thing is, will two systems, the ZUS IT system and the IRS, be able to work together? As we know, when it comes to computer systems in Poland, we are not in the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u530	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banasia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the question of the possible benefits of this amendment, it must be pointed out that in general the revenue of the budget is about 300 billion, so any error, even in one percentage, the lack of analysis can cause major losses to the budget. So in this situation, the exact data that is exchanged between the Social Security Office and the Ministry of Finance can affect the precision of the analysis of these data and we will avoid any risks that can now happen and take place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u532	Thank you very much, Minister. [[I'd like one thing...]] And I would like to ask you to speak, as you are reporting, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Gabriela Mastowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u533	Ladies and gentlemen! Before our government, society has set us a huge task, and it has given us a huge responsibility. And at this point, we need to provide ministers responsible for the particular sections of our economic and social lives with the appropriate tools for effective and rapid action. And this is dictated by the pace of work on this project. It is well known what problems in tax collection and irregularities we face as they undermine the state budget, thus reducing the standard of living of citizens. It is therefore necessary to take action on all sections of the action. This project is one of the many projects of the current parliament and government to provide such tools for efficient and rapid action. I think data protection concerns are unfounded. They will be available to data controllers in individual institutions, i.e. in this case the Minister of Finance and the Social Security Office, and possibly the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. It's about sharing that data. This law we give, we strengthen the right to request the exchange of these data which are collected, collected in individual institutions. The Act gives very precise details of the data, so there can be no mention of any extortional, unexpected, unexpected, and therefore dangerous or harmful information. I hope that we will finish this project quickly, but we will be in favour of changing the date of entry into force of the law, simply shortening the deadline. Thank you for your attention. I also thank the clubs that will support or even hold back, not vote against, because I am convinced that this is a step in the right direction. We can't give in, Mr. Marshal, to such an atmosphere that it's bad, because it's fast. We know that if we worked slowly, it would be bad for the opposition, too, so we just have to do our job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u534	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of items 16 and 17 of the agenda: 16. First reading of the government bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and war cemeteries, the Act on Museums, the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment and the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices (print No.806). 17. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals (Print No 771). I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Patrick Jaki, to present the justification for the bill in print No.806. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u535	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Polish death camps, Polish concentration camps, Polish death camps. Too often, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, such statements appear in foreign media and in foreign press. Some NGOs point out that even every other day - with such a frequency - such disgraceful statements appear, which distort history, speak to our nation, talk about Polish participation in the Holocaust and finally make the victim a perpetrator. The problem is, High Sejm, that the state apparatus's previous activities in this area have been ineffective. Yes, diplomatic agencies sent corrections and some institutions and newspapers replied that more such information would not be included, but it did not have any lasting effects. They often appeared, even in the same writing, the same wording, and yet they appeared with increasing frequency. In addition, it is worth emphasising, the High Seym, the historical context. These talks are shameful and dishonest, because Poland belonged to the greatest victims of World War II, it was one of two countries that participated in World War II from the beginning to the end. Poland lost - if you look at the proportions in terms of the number of citizens relative to the size of the nation - the largest number of compatriots during World War II. Poland lost 1/3 of the area, mentioned millions of citizens, the elite of the nation as a result of World War II. The capital and other cities were destroyed, national assets were stolen. In the end, Poland was invaded by the Soviet Union. Talking to us about participating in the Holocaust in this context seems to be an extremely condemned act. In addition, if we consider that among the awarded Righteous Medal among the Nations for people who risked their lives saving Jews during World War II, Poles are the most... Most of them are such decorations. We have therefore decided, High Sejm, to propose a prescription, a solution which will consist of three basic elements: a criminal element, a civil element and new opportunities for NGOs. With regard to the details of criminal protection measures, the High Sejm provides for the following solutions. The bill. We are punitive of the behaviour of assigning to the Polish nation or the Polish state publicly and contrary to the fact of responsibility or co-ownership for the Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich as defined in the article. 6 The Charter of the International Military Court annexed to the London Agreement of 8 August 1945 or for other crimes constituting crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes or grossly reducing otherwise the responsibilities of the actual perpetrators of these crimes, and here we are talking about the proposed article. 55a. In addition, responsibility for committing this act is introduced for both intentional faults, e.g. running a website promoting content that violates the good name of the Polish people as well as unintentionally, e.g. the use of the term 'Polish camps' by a journalist as a result of his lack of professional diligence as defined by the standards applicable to media publication, especially in the case of a large journal in the international community. Here's another piece. For an act committed intentionally, a fine or a three-year sentence is proposed. The penalty is set at the above level in order to ensure consistency with the applicable rules on penalties for offences of a similar nature. In particular, Article. 55th Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. the offence of denial of the Holocaust, or Article. 133 of the Criminal Code, i.e. public insulting of the Polish people or the Republic of Poland. Another element is that penalties in the form of fines or restrictions on freedom are proposed for acts committed unintentionally. Then, as in any criminal proceedings, so in this case, the court will have a wide catalogue of tools that allow for less severe criminal repression than imprisonment to be applied to the perpetrator. Another element is that criminal liability is excluded where the perpetrator of an act is allowed in the context of artistic or scientific activity, that is a countertype. Here's another piece. The prosecution of a new type of crime will take place independently of the rules in force at the place of the offence. It is therefore expanding so-called. the absolute safeguard principle resulting from Article. 112 Penal Code, we're talking about this draft article. 55b, and the investigation will be initiated by the District Attorney of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals. It's a design art. 45a. Another element, the penalization of behaviours defined in the proposed article. 55a is also present in European Union law, here we are talking about the Framework Decision of 28 November 2008 on combating certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law. Then, when the act is committed abroad or the perpetrator is a foreigner, the investigation will be conducted according to the same rules as in any other criminal case with the foreign element. In addition, if an act is committed in the European Union, it will be possible to use instruments of mutual recognition during criminal proceedings, for example in the enforcement of fine measures. Now we're going to the second element, i.e. Civil protection measures. The provisions laying down the principles of redress resulting from the violation of the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation will be introduced in the new chapter 6c, whose title will be as follows: Protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation, in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, and they provide that in order to protect the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation, the footnotes of the Civil Code on the Protection of Personal Goods will be applied accordingly. In addition, an action to protect the good name of the Republic of Poland or the Polish nation will be possible in the scope of its statutory tasks a non-governmental organization or the Institute of National Remembrance. Here is this important element, i.e. non-governmental organisations which have this activity in their statutes will be able to sue or seek a claim if any institution abuses statements such as Polish concentration camps or Polish death camps. Another element for civil protection measures, i.e. compensation or redress, they will always be granted to the Treasury. This is also an important element, because so far, even if the Polish courts considered that such compensation was due, it could not be indicated who the compensation was due, the beneficiary could not be identified. Now this gap will be completed in the Act by a precise indication of the State Treasury. A further element, in the event of an offence committed by an entity established in the territory of a State of the European Union, shall be the jurisdiction of the court determined in accordance with the provisions of Regulation No 1215/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2012 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters and, if the act is committed by another entity, the jurisdiction shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. Therefore, the Polish courts will be competent to settle civil cases, or when, in accordance with the general principle of the regulation referred to above, we are talking about Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1, the defendant will be resident, established in Poland or if, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, we indicate here Article. 7 point 2, in Poland there will be an event causing injury. This means among others. the possibility of suing foreign publishers in the case of press delicacies, when the information which contradicts the good name of the Republic of Poland or the Polish nation will be disseminated also in Poland or here will have a negative effect. Another element, the applicable law will in principle be defined in accordance with the Private International Law, except that at the same time the project ensures that the detailed arrangements introduced by the proposed law will always apply, notwithstanding the indication of the law applicable under the Private International Law. Therefore, as I have just pointed out, High Sejm, we are creating a new, wide catalogue of protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland, with elements of criminal protection and civil protection. We are convinced that this will allow for a long, wise policy to protect the good name of the Republic of Poland. We have introduced small changes to the project related to the amendment of the Law of 28 March 1933 on graves and war cemeteries, the Law of 21 November 1996 on museums and the Act of 1 April 2016 on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. These are the comments made by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage's request. Those amendments are intended to prevent inaccuracies due to the entry into force of the Article. 21 of the Act of 29 April 2016 amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. This law provides for the loss of force in force by the law on the Council for the Protection of Martyrdom and Combating Memory. Among the powers of this council was the award of a medal In order to enable the above powers to be exercised by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, changes have therefore been made to Article. 2 and 3 projects. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u536	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz Romekowski to provide a justification for the bill in print No. 771. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u537	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance is quite a short novel against the one presented just now by Deputy Minister Patrick Jak. I will briefly describe what this amendment is about. The proposal made by our club is to be added in the article. 1 in point 1 in point (a) and the position related to the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich, as well as the addition after the article. Article 2 2a, which would contain a legal definition of these crimes. The aim of the proposed change is to significantly limit the public preaching of lies about the crimes of genocide in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska in the area of the law in Poland. The damage to the impunity of public lying to history, especially in such a tragic aspect as the act of extermination of the Polish, Jewish, Czech, Slovak, Armenian and Ukrainian people, does not raise any doubts. During the occupation of the territory of the Second Republic of Poland by the Third Reich between February 1943 and February 1944, the former Vołyńskie voivodeship had a mass extermination of the Polish population by Ukrainian nationalists. Anti-Polish ethnic cleansings had their apogee on Sunday 11 August 1943. On that day in Volyn, Ukrainian attackers attacked 100 villages. At least 20,000 died in July and August 1943. Poles. On the basis of existing scientific data, it can be concluded that more than 100,000 died as a result of CNS and UPA actions. Poles, of which 60,000. on Volyn itself. Part of the formation of Ukrainian nationalists was established under the direct guardianship of the Third Reich. In 1943, there was a voluntary uprising of 14. Grenadier Division SS Galizien. The inspiration for the formation of the division emerged from the CNS of the faction of melycites. The nationalist formation committed a series of war crimes, among which the most cruel was the massacre in Huta Pieniacka in 1944. Immediately after these tragic events began the creation of false interpretation of events, destruction and counterfeiting of evidence, denial, concealment and silence of crimes, as well as the presentation of justification for these actions. Jan Zaleski, father of Father Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski, wrote in his diary: Kresowian was killed twice: once by an axe blow, twice by silence. In addition, Ukraine conducts its own historical policy, the aim of which is to present the history of the Ukrainian state in the best possible light. Ukraine's parliament in 2015 on the day when the President of the Republic of Poland Bronisław Komorowski was there, adopted a law in which he recognized as fighters for the freedom and independence of Ukraine, among others. members of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army responsible for genocide on the citizens of the Second Republic. Chapter 6 of the Law on legal status and respect for the memory of participants in the fight for independence of Ukraine in the 20th century states that citizens of Ukraine, foreigners and persons without citizenship who publicly show contempt for the persons referred to in Article. 1 - the CNS and UPA - hinder the implementation of the rights of fighters for independence of Ukraine in the 20th century, are subject to responsibility according to the law of Ukraine. Public denial of the legitimacy of the fight for independence of Ukraine in the 20th century is regarded as an insult to the memory of the fighters for independence of Ukraine in the 20th century, a violation of the dignity of the Ukrainian people and a violation of rights. Today's Ukrainian state has an unparalleled policy of glorifying the perpetrators of genocide in the Second Republic of Poland, and the sources of national identity and heroism look at the crimes of formations referring to the ideology of Ukrainian integral nationalism. The ideology of nationalism dominates all spheres of social and public life in Ukraine. Glorification of criminal nationalist formations is one of the priorities of educational and educational policy in Ukraine at all levels of formation from kindergarten to higher education. Whitening and translating the criminal activities of the CNS and UPA are among the priorities of Ukrainian historical policy. Officially the day of the defence in Ukraine was established the day of the creation of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. The official pantheon of the Ukrainian heroes included the ideology of Ukrainian nationalism and the leader of the OUN Stepan Bandera and direct commander of the genocide actions in Volyn and in Eastern Małopolska Roman Shuchewycz. The commemorations of the leaders of the criminal formations became common not only in western Ukraine, but also in Kiev, as we witnessed when the High Chamber adopted a resolution commemorating the genocide carried out on 11 July, when the local authorities of Kiev named the two most important streets in the city by the names of Bandera and Shuchevycz. The security structures of Ukraine are modelled on CNS and UPA formations. The ethos of the battle of the Bander underground becomes a model for the formation of Ukraine's armed forces. Volunteer troops that entered the armed forces of Ukraine are directly identified with the nationalist tradition. The fact of genocide of Polish citizens is widely denied in Ukraine. The thesis developed by the Bander propaganda during World War II of the supposed Polish-Ukrainian war is in force. In particular, the known resting places of the victims of genocide are vulnerable to constant desecration. In the overwhelming majority of historical places associated with genocide by Ukrainian nationalists or places of individual and mass graves are deprived of care, decent appearance and marking of religious, accrual and appropriate Martiological inscription. In view of the visible efforts to impose a historical narrative on the Polish side in Ukraine that lies about genocide, derogating the memory of the victims, taking into account the growing migratory movements from Ukraine, when the owners of the ideology of Ukrainian nationalism and the adherents of the worldview based on the glorification of the formations that have committed the crimes of genocide, are increasingly represented in Poland, which also leads to tensions in Polish-Ukrainian relations, the issue of legal regulation regarding the memory of the victims of anti-Polish actions is essential both in the context of historical truth as a necessary factor for the healing of the moral and ethical condition of the Polish society, as well as the actual standardisation of international relations and support of truly democratic environments in Ukraine. According to the applicant, these facts justify the legal protection of Polish historical memory. Currently, there are no laws in the Polish Criminal Code that exonerate public lies about acts of extermination of the population, although there is a provision of art. 125a of the Penal Code prohibiting, under threat of imprisonment, from 3 months to 5 years of public provocation to extermination - and other similar crimes - or publicly condoning such crimes. Art. 256 The Penal Code, in turn, penalizes the promotion of fascism, communism or other totalitarian system. The criminality of denying crimes committed in Poles has been introduced in the law on IPN. Currently Art. The 55th Act on the Institute of National Remembrance only criminalizes the denial of the crimes that are investigated by the Institute of National Remembrance and committed during the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. Art. The 55th IPN Act penalizes the denial of crimes other than exterminations, and at the same time does not include lying denial of crimes of genocide committed in a different period than that indicated. The introduction of the proposed amendment by the designer will significantly facilitate the implementation of the Article. 55 Act on IPN criminal proceedings against persons denying the crimes of genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists. The proposed solution will therefore have positive social consequences resulting from prosecution for the crime of denying crimes committed on Polish citizens by Ukrainian nationalists. The applicant also proposes to add a legal definition of the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I brought two more materials with me. One is an article from the Kresa portal. pl, which refers to the event from Bartoszyce in Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship, where Polish language and Ukrainian language function. In the school library, there are items such as.Stepan Bandera and Ja., Roman Shuchewycz - my hero. And for all this the Polish taxpayer pays. Polish youth learns such patterns, learns that Bandera and Shuchewych were heroes. It's just a scandal. Until we introduce this type of regulation, this situation will repeat itself, because it is impunity. Our proposal also changes the philosophy of functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance. Yesterday, together with Paul Kukiz, we were at the promotion of a book that was not published by the Institute of National Remembrance, because he was not interested in it, and which was published by a group of authors, including employees of the Institute of National Remembrance, with Mr. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay. Volhynia, the stories of the children saved from the pogrom. This is the story of 16 young people who have escaped Ukrainian choppers and who have described the tragic history of their families and how they survived. It is worth that the tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance concerning the handling of crimes carried out by Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations, which directly collaborated with the Third Reich and very actively participated in the organized Holocaust of the Jewish people, were contained in the Act on the National Remembrance and that the Institute of National Remembrance dealt with this topic may not be as much as in the case of communist and Nazi crimes, but with the same responsibility. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u538	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof July will be the first to speak. Are you an MP? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u539	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to share my reflection on the government's submission of an amendment to the Constitutional Tribunal Act and other important laws related in fact to this law, which assigns important tasks to this important institution, the Institute of National Remembrance. The issue concerns a very important problem relating to the interests of the Republic of Poland. Polish concentration camps, Polish labour camps - such information comes from foreign sources, are disseminated by various media, press and television. For this reason, not only does a forgery picture of history arise, but above all such statements are in the interest of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation. Therefore, it is good that finally now, after 27 years so-called. The government of Law and Justice decided to take these matters into its own hands and presented the Sejm with a very, in my opinion, a good solution, which, above all, gives legal possibilities to secure national interests in this context. This is about criminal protection, as well as civil law protection, because so far all those who have falsified Polish history... Creating a sign of equality between the perpetrators of World War II, the Third German Reich, and those who were victims, especially Poles and the Polish nation, is a clear injustice. The lack of decisive action in this matter deserved to finally submit legal solutions to the Polish Parliament. For this, I would like to thank the government very warmly that such solutions have been submitted, along with solutions that are in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as with European Union law, because this has been reflected and confirmed in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice. This is very important, because today, by virtue of these decisions, it will be possible to prosecute the perpetrators of this type of crime, because the solution put forward by the government precisely as a new one defines such a crime, which is connected with telling the Republic of Poland about acts which had no realization, reflected in facts and shape an untrue picture of war reality. Such acts are subject to prosecution by law. Polish courts, which will decide according to their jurisdiction, which is defined by European law, as the Minister also mentioned here today, will be able to pursue justice. This is very important. Government submission is also a very important decision in the context of the protection of war cemeteries and graves, because it opens up opportunities for various institutions, including NGOs, to use public funds to protect such places of national memory. It is a solution that also shapes the right civil attitudes, but in my opinion it is also important for the protection of these places of national memory. I am convinced that this decision presented by the government will be adopted unanimously by the Polish Parliament. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this proposal be directed to further legislative work in the Sejm. I am convinced that such a law will be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u540	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have two draft laws to supplement the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, quite recently passed. First of all, I will take care of the draft law that had been introduced earlier, namely from print No 771, presented by the Kukiz party15. [[Voice from the hall: There's no party, there's a club.]] I'm sorry. Through the club. According to the current law, the activities of the IPN concern Nazi, communist and other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. In addition to this set, Kukiz,15 proposes to add after: Nazi crimes, communist crimes, the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich. I read the justification, and we heard it here today. Well, I would like to say that what has already been set out in this explanatory memorandum does not in any way explain what the added value of this wording in the bill would be. It's said, for example. in support of the fact that Ukrainian crimes are silenced. I'm sure they're here, somewhere, in different places, silenced... [[In Ukraine, for example.]] ...but not in the IPN. IPN, ladies and gentlemen, established a special web portal in three languages: Ukrainian, Polish and English, concerning the crimes in Volyn. The IPN prosecutors are conducting thirty-several criminal proceedings in Volyn. A dozen books were published on the Volyn slaughter. So it is difficult for the IPN to accuse him of silence, or it is difficult to accuse him that there is no legal basis for proceedings concerning the slaughter and Ukrainian crimes in Volyn, because these proceedings are being conducted, messages are disseminated, books are published, the portal is being conducted. This proposal of yours does not add any new, formal, legal basis to carry out this kind of activity, rather it is intended, so I read it, to humiliate the Ukrainians simply, to replace them there immediately after referring to the Nazi, communist crimes... [[Nazis.]] ...to distinguish them from those covered by § 3, which speaks of various other crimes. I am now moving on to a draft submitted by the government, contained in print No.806. I understand that the intentions of this are very good, but here the Minister is a little bit of a matter, so to speak, vaguely. Minister, there are two completely different things in this proposal of yours, completely different. One refers to Article. 55a and 2nd, Art. 55, its additions, which concern the introduction of criminality of silence, reduction or imputation of the crimes of the Third Reich in Poland, i.e. the Polish extermination camps and such things. There you may have doubts, for example. Involuntary writing or saying something like that, like President Obama did, should be criminal, too, what you brought in. This is about the practical effects, whether we will actually be able to chase all those journalists who sometimes accidentally write something like this, whether it has practical application, how it will help us in the work that diplomats are doing in this case. And here they're kind of smaller, but they're sure, doubts. On the other hand, there are fundamental doubts as to how to supplement this Article. 53, namely, Article 53 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 53 completely separate from Nazi crimes, war crimes. There is a very general concept of the good name of the Polish people, i.e. the Polish state, which is about every case, also yesterday's speech. Wherever someone says something about the Polish people and you can be offended for it, also the natural person, because you enter into the Civil Code the criminality of it, you can file a case. Moreover, as far as the Polish extermination camps are concerned, the case is brought to the attention of the prosecutor. Here any organization that has entered into its statute, that can defend the good name of Poland, can bring a case to anyone, professor, publicist. Churchill would certainly have had a case about it, because he said that there are few such advantages that Poles would not have, but there are few such disadvantages that they would not have. For the first part of his sentence we will commend him, for the second he would already be accused of insulting the Polish people. Lloyd George said, ladies and gentlemen, that giving the Poles industrial Silesia is like a monkey watch. Are we gonna put him on trial? I'm not talking about other very difficult things, even the whole thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] debate around Gross' book. There was a huge debate, they agreed with him, they disagreed with him, they criticized him, but it was a debate in the media, and here the debate would be brought, I don't know, to the courtroom. That is how we would limit this kind of debate. So, as I say, this is a very dangerous article that will drive the mill to small organizations, discussions about Poland, not those of very important ones, but about Poland at all, closes and brings it to courtrooms.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u542	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u543	However, we must consider this very seriously today, Minister, on the committee...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u544	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is little time, but unfortunately I must refer to the statements made by the representative of the PO. I suspect that this is simply an introduction to the argument behind the liquidation of the IPN that you announced during your convention. [[Applause]] On the other hand, referring to printing 806, I must say that it is going in the right direction, but unfortunately, Minister, there are some things missing that should be clarified. First of all, with regard to the article on the protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish people, it is without doubt necessary, but it is not necessary to make a statement. 3 of the proposed article saying that he does not commit the offence of the criminal offence referred to in paragraph. 1 and 2 if he has committed this act in the framework of artistic or scientific activities. The introduction of such a point in the bill will automatically create a protective umbrella for various types of ideologists and hoschstaples who will abuse it for violating the good name of the Republic and the Polish nation. We already have an example here, just to remind you of the dubious spectacle at the festival in Bydgoszcz, our violence, your violence. Therefore, in this case, Kukiz15 will certainly submit an appropriate amendment to abolish this point. Also in the context of Article. 55 and 55b it is worth considering to prevent the imputation of communist crimes to the Republic of Poland and to the Polish people. And it's possible, for example. by Ukrainians accusing Poles of any evil resulting from the action of the Vistula. The Republic of Poland is not and should not be treated as an heir to the People's Republic of Poland. Some Polish citizens, if they committed communist crimes, did not do so on behalf of the Republic of Poland or the Polish people, even if they used such phraseology. We will also propose some amendments here. We will also propose amendments to the article. 2 concerning the already complicated matter of the law on graves and war cemeteries, because the solution proposed by the government party complicates the matter, because money is transferred to two government authorities, while the provisions governing the implementation of these tasks in the law refer to IPN, as in the case of the broadcasting of medals. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of referring the proposed amendments to the committee and working them out so that they simply do not complicate certain solutions. Thank you very much. I present the whole thing to the record.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u546	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Khrushch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Communist and Nazi crimes are perhaps easier to prosecute, because in today's international arena they do not have partners, they do not have support which openly and institutionally refer to the ideas that led to such great crimes about which we Poles know. In the case of flagship, this is not the case. Bander crimes had specific perpetrators, and these perpetrators have their heirs keeping their ideal continuity, today still active in their country's politics, and thus indirectly and in the international game. Unfortunately, much of our elites lied about the crimes in Volyn and East Małopolska. The guilt of the ideologies and criminals who did it has been wiped out. There was a great deal of tragedy in relation to it. The adoption of this law will introduce legal protection of Polish historical memory. In the future, it will make it impossible to lie to the truth, help restore the memory of the victims. It will help not only Poles, but also Jews, Czechs, Slovaks, Armenians and other Ukrainians, because it must also be said that many good Ukrainians have lost their lives by hiding their Polish neighbours. They also deserve truth and memory, because they too were killed by chauvinists. The amendment to the IPN Act will facilitate criminal proceedings against people who deny the crimes of genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists. Pursuing crimes of denial of crimes committed on Polish citizens will have a very positive social impact. I would like to add that Kukiz15 will certainly support these ideas and we will also encourage you, the high parliament, to support this spirit, this way of thinking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u548	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Few Members! I'll start with print number 771, which is the Kukiz project15. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft amendment to the Act on IPN - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals by the Kukiz club15 assumes changes which in our opinion require refinement. Although the idea behind the applicants is important and we support it, in the case of such sensitive matter as the memory of the Polish victims of criminal ideologies, this matter certainly requires precise determination, therefore the proposal to amend the law in this form is unacceptable. The draft amendment of the law containing a record of the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists on Poles living in the former Eastern Kresa II of the Republic introduces general, vague, non-precise and erroneous concepts, ignoring important aspects of the execution on the Polish nation. First of all, the proposal to include the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists committed in the years 1943-1944 in the article. Point 1a of the IPN Act is not in line with the chronological framework. It is important to keep the record in force between 1917 and 1990, as this applies to the same period. Nor should we limit the territory of the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists to Volyn and Eastern Małopolska, which in the justification of the project was called the former Volynian voivodeship very precisely. Such a restriction is detrimental to the activities of the IPN, as it narrows down the area from which it was excluded, for example. Former Poleskie voivodship. Today we know, on the basis of a set of documents issued by Belarusian historians, about the activities of the CNS - UPA also in that area, so this territorial restriction will not benefit the institute. Troublesome and demanding consultation with historians of the epoch seems to include in the concept of Nazi crimes or crimes of Ukrainian nationalists activities of the Ukrainian National Army, bringing together members of the CNS, UPA, soldiers of the Ukrainian SS formations and Nazi police. In the opinion of the Members of the applicant, do the crimes of collaborating with the Third Reich fall within the concept of Nazi crimes? The project treats them separately. Let us not set a precedent dangerous from the point of view of prosecuting Nazi crimes. We will fall into a trap when there are suggestions that since the crimes of Ukrainian collaborating formations were not Nazi crimes, they are crimes of collaborating formations consisting of persons of other origin, e.g. Lithuanians weren't like that either. Thus we will remove from responsibility concerning participation in the Nazi terror of murderers on tens of thousands of Poles and Polish citizens from Podwilenski Ponar. This would allow guilty persons to interpret the wording of the article. 2a in its own favour, which the Members of the applicant certainly do not care about. We also point to contradictions, ladies and gentlemen. At one point, the Members of the applicant point out that there are no laws in the Polish Criminal Code to criminalize the public lying of facts in order to note elsewhere that in the Penal Code there is a criminalisation of contradictions of crimes in the Polish people. Ladies and gentlemen, in solidarity with the victims of the crimes committed in the former Eastern Ends and in understanding the intentions of the applicants, we propose not to accept any amendments made to the bill in this form. We recommend withdrawing them for further work in committees, where, with the participation of experts from international public law and researchers from the history of World War II, they should be discussed thoroughly again. I'm going back, ladies and gentlemen, to print number 806. When making such important decisions regarding taking care of the good name of Poland, we must remember that the rules created are wise and effective. Otherwise we will pay a higher price for overzealousness than those who agree to the good name of Poland. Criminal punishment cannot be effective because there is no way to create effective tools. What consequences will the Polish state be able to draw, e.g. to the American correspondent, The Washington Post, if he uses the term "Polish extermination camp"? None. Is he going to be convicted by default? It's not serious. Let's work out effective methods and start promoting abroad. Let's create and share information material in an accessible form. Ladies and gentlemen, after an examination of the article. 55a appeared a number of inaccuracies, which were very well scored [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the statement of the Center for Holocaust Research of Jews on the changes discussed, in which we read: The Center for Holocaust Research of Jews expresses deep concern about the draft amendments adopted by the government in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. The formula for protecting the good name proposed in the draft is so broad and vague that it can be interpreted according to the current needs of the legislator and its law enforcement authorities. This would give the authorities the opportunity to intervene not only in areas such as publicities and education, but also in spite of reservations...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u550	Yes, sir, but time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u551	I'm done, Marshal, I'm done. I want to finish this statement. ...in the domain of artistic art and in the sovereign area of academic and scientific life. This brings to mind the worst times of red, brutal totalitarianism. The Center for Holocaust Research of the Jews expresses not only its greatest concern, but also its strong protest against all these threats. That's all, marshal. I've been out of time for a minute, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u552	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the draft laws concerning the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, contained in the case of the government project in print No. 806 and in the case of the parliamentary project by the Kukiz club15 - in print No. 771. I'll start with a government project. The proposed package of changes assumes that the imputation of public and contrary to the facts of the Polish nation or the Polish state of responsibility or joint responsibility for the crimes committed by the Third Reich or other crimes against peace, humanity and war crimes will be punishable by a fine or imprisonment of up to 3 years. At the same time, criminal liability for the use of abusive terms in the case of scientific or artistic activities shall be excluded. The investigation in the event of such an offence is to be initiated by an IPN prosecutor and the judgments given in these cases will be made public. High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the problem of using the terms "Polish death camps" and "Polish concentration camps" that are offensive to all Poles deserves our attention and response. During World War II we suffered huge losses and were the fourth largest allied army, we made a great contribution to the victory over Nazism. However, today, after more than 70 years, you can often hear in the Western media about Polish death camps. I'm not going to question how much wrong will it is, and how much ignorance it is. However, we should find a remedy for this problem and apply it consistently. The question is - and I will not be here, I think, too original - whether these criminal measures will have an effect in a situation where these terms fall on the pages of New York newspapers, Paris weeklys or Munich Internet portals, because it must be admitted that the problem of using offensive terms for us does not occur in Poland, but it is mainly a problem occurring outside its borders. The question is whether we should rather focus on promoting our own historical narrative consistently and in the long term. Instead of peddling this unfavorable narrative, is it not better to focus on educational activities and on how to reach out to the opinion-makers in the West with our historical message? Finally, would it not be more effective to sue under civil law the countries in which these derogatory terms are used? By adopting the proposed law, Poland will join the group of countries such as Turkey and Russia, where the proclamation of a version of a non-official history is sanctioned with criminal penalties. High Izbo, that's not how they do the strong, that's what the weak do, who have to defend their stories with administrative and criminal methods. Those really strong and effective can reach the world with their historical narrative, they can promote and sell it. The question is whether the Polish way to freedom is not worth selling to the whole world in a positive sense. We remember that this road also led through the gehenna of German Nazi concentration camps and it is worth remembering that the world also. This project also contains provisions amending the law on graves and war cemeteries. They set out the procedure for granting a special grant from the state budget to finance tasks related to the care of graves and war cemeteries. The Museums Act is also subject to change. It sets out the rules for the award of the medal to the Keeper of the National Remembrance Site. It will be broadcast by the Minister of Culture. These are certainly very important elements. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, seeing the small ones, I would say, the shortcomings, but it stands for [[♪ The bell ♪]] For both projects to go to the committee and to work on them, to eliminate these shortcomings, which are questionable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u554	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Huskowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The government bill amending the IPN law does not inspire our trust. Its purpose is to defend the good name of Poles and of the Republic against historical ignorants and forgers of stories of bad intentions. All the people of Poland are outraged by the phrase "Polish extermination camps" or "Polish concentration camps" appearing from time to time in various foreign media. We would therefore like to applaud the idea of ending this practice. However, when you read the draft submitted by the government, there are doubts. These are the smallest: Will they read our carefully prepared bill in the countries where such publications take place? Will the lawyers of American magazines, radio stations or television stations sit on it? I also have concerns that it will reach, for example. to the Vatican, where, as the press reported, such a bad phrase appeared on Il Sismografo's religious portal. What about the Czech TV or the British Independent? This great task lies before Minister Waszczykowski. It is said that democracy is not only the extent to which it does the will of the majority, but also the extent to which it ensures the rights of minorities. Similarly, when a new law is adopted, it is important not only whether and how it solves the problem, but also whether it creates a gap or a place for abuse. This novel, with this power, can cause anxiety. The project contains the wording, and here I quote: Who in public and contrary to the facts grossly reduces the responsibility of the real perpetrators of these - i.e. Nazi - crimes, is punishable by a fine or imprisonment until the years 3. The prosecutor is to be the IPN, so it is important that the newly elected president has respect for historical facts and how resistant he is to the suggestions of the camp that elevated him to this position. And that could be the biggest fear. When Minister Anna Zalewska asked by journalists keys, wriggled like a screech in the case of Jedwabne, then the candidate for President of the IPN Dr. Jarosław Szarek at the meeting of the Parliament committee marginalized the role of Poles in the murder of the Jewish population in 1941, assigning it to Germany. He also said that the presence of Jan Tomasz Gross - a professor of history at Princeton University and the author of the book "The Neighbors," that is, the terrible role of Polish inhabitants of the town - at one of the conferences co-organized by the IPN was a huge mistake, according to him. There's no agreement to attend major scientific conferences for people like Mr. Gross. This cannot happen again," he said. Isn't the candidate today, but the president of the IPN Dr. Szarek will exercise the power conferred on him by this law and will sue Jan Tomasz Gross to the court, and the court will convict the professor for three years after the well-changed laws on common courts? This case is deadly serious, but I'm gonna let it end with a little sarcasm. I can already see Minister Zbigniew Ziobra speaking to the US government about the extradition of Gross from Princeton to Warsaw in order to serve the prison sentence, and I can also see how President Szarek calls for an interview with the IPN in order to make an explanation for the famous statement of the Polish death camp of Barack Obama in May 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u556	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In public circulation, including abroad, terms such as the Polish death camps, the Polish extermination camps or the Polish concentration camps, which are contrary to historical truth, have negative effects, agreeing directly on the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation and acting destructively on the image of the Republic of Poland, especially abroad. They give rise to the impression that the Polish nation and the Polish state are responsible for the crimes committed by the Third German Reich. Experience so far shows that the steps taken to correct information that is not based on historical truth quickly and effectively have not been effective. Therefore, it is necessary to create legal tools allowing the Polish authorities to conduct a consistent historical policy against counterfeiting of Polish history and protecting the good name of the Republic of Poland. It is very good that the Polish state has gained the courage to defend its good name. But maybe we should clarify one more thing in this law and in the proposed article. 55a introducing a new type of crime consisting in assigning to the Polish nation or the Polish state publicly and contrary to the facts of responsibility or co-ownership for the crimes committed by the Third German Reich, delete the term "Nazi" because in recent years the Nazi expression has often been used in the American press to determine the Polish right-wing environments. I believe that precise terms should be used in the proposed provision, from which it should clearly indicate that they were crimes committed on behalf of the German people and committed by the Germans. I also have my attention to the recordings of the article. 2 Laws on graves and war cemeteries restricting up to 50% of the funds for the care of memorial sites. There's no need for self-limitation. Let me just remind you that in the 2016 budget debate, I asked for an increase in funds for the Institute of National Remembrance, but my amendment was not included. A few months later, the Sejm amended the IPN Act, adding new tasks to the Institute and not granting funds to implement them. It would be good not to make a similar mistake by limiting the possibilities and raising funds for statutory tasks. A colleague will talk about the crimes of genocide in Volyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u558	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Ireneus to profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u559	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the case of the parliamentary draft law amending the law on IPN - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, print No. 771. The crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainians who are members of collaborating organizations with Nazi Germany, including crimes of genocide on the Polish population in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska, must be clearly and unconditionally condemned. It is also unacceptable to refer back to historical facts, and even more so to tell lies about the reasons described in the draft of dramatic events. It is very important that relations with Ukraine be built on mutual respect for the culture and history of neighbouring nations, but above all on the basis of historical truth, even though it is tragic and difficult to accept. Unfortunately, the historical policy of Ukraine does not bode well for relations with Poland. The reference in building Ukrainian national identity by Ukrainian environments and the Ukrainian government to heroic traditions supposedly the achievements of the criminal formations of the OUN-UPA and the nationalist ideology itself, lying about the events of World War II, commemorating the leaders of the criminal formations by giving them monuments and calling them streets their names or desecrating places connected with the crimes of Ukrainians on the Polish population is in our view a bad way, leading nowhere. In order to build good relations, it is necessary that we, as neighboring nations, stand in the truth, calling bad things by name, paying tribute and due respect to the victims of those tragic events. Apart from the diplomatic route, we cannot interfere with what is happening in Ukraine, but we can and should take action that will be effective in the area of impact of Polish law. Therefore, the introduction of penalization of the preaching of the untruths about the crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists on the Polish, Jewish, Czech, Slovak, Armenian and Ukrainian population, which can be called a Volyn lie, is a good solution. This will not solve all the problems in this case, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it will certainly have a real impact on minimizing the phenomenon of lying to history and insulting the memory of the victims of genocide on the Polish population in Volhynia and in Eastern Małopolska by Ukrainian nationalists. It is also a clear signal that the Polish State will not be idle in this case. However, it should be noted that the draft law contains unclear wordings which should not be included there. The Third Reich is an unfortunate name. The official German state in the years 1933-1945 was called the German Reich. It is also unfortunate to introduce the concept of citizens of the Second Republic of Poland, when in another place we talk more about the Polish population and citizens of the Polish state. These definitions need to be clarified and harmonised. The Free and Solidarni Circle requests that the bill be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u560	Thank you, sir. 11 Members have joined the questions. If there are no more ladies and gentlemen willing to ask a question, I will close the list of those who are written for questions. I'm gonna give you one minute to ask a question. Please, as the first Mr Marcin Święcicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u561	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To the Minister, I have a question: Will the government make available to us all the opinions that have been submitted to this bill, e.g. Is it the opinion of the IPN or the opinion mentioned here by one of the Members, the Center for Holocaust Research of the Jews of the Institute of Philosophy and Sociology of the Polish Academy of Sciences? I understand that these opinions have somehow been digested by you, but we would like to see the original opinions as Members. And I have a question for the authors of the Kukiz project. You talk a lot about spreading UPA worship. It's a cult not for crimes in Poles, but for fighting Bolshevism. But who do you want to punish for not talking about genocide? Are the president of Ukraine or the parliamentarians who have adopted these unfortunate laws or those city councils that build the monuments of Bandera or call the streets? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the head of the Ukrainian IPN, who doesn't talk about genocide, just talk about crimes against the civilian population?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u562	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u563	I wonder...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u564	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u565	...what is the extent of the people you want to prosecute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u566	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u567	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, please explain why Art. 1 paragraph The 3th project assumes the transfer of competence to the National Remembrance Memorial Medal from the President of the IPN to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage? In the context of the recently adopted amendment to the Act on IPN establishing the Office for the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, it is rather incomprehensible. It cannot be justified that this is a logical change. About the medal itself. It may be granted for the care of graves from a period prior to that prescribed in the Act: 19171990. However, if this provision is accepted, the Committees for the Protection of Combating and Martyrship will be transferred to the Ministry of Culture. So what will be the basis for the Office of Remembrance and Martyrdom at the IPN? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u568	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Kwitek. There's no envoy? This is Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The return of the Polish camp is expected to result in up to 3 years in prison. This is the present draft law by the Ministry of Justice. The justification of the project does not include a discussion of its compliance with the provision on freedom of expression contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It is also guaranteed by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Will the Minister of Justice agree that there is a risk that the proposed regulation could result in excessive interference in the freedom of expression of individuals? It would also be worth considering that the regulations of the law and criminality concern the most glaring behaviour, the greatest of which is social harm. How will the authors of the project address the issue of giving up criminality for involuntary behaviour? That's the kind of thing you're gonna do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The speeches also take place. Will this be considered in the course of further work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u570	Thank you, Member. And I ask for the floor of Elizabeth Duda. There is no Member. Then it is Mrs Catherine Czochar. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u571	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are working on an important project, and I also wanted to raise a very important issue. Undoubtedly, monuments and plaques commemorating German soldiers who died in the First and Second World War or the reconstruction of pre-war monuments are important in Opolskie Silesia. In particular, the symbols and names of the Iron Crosses, the helmets of the Wehrmacht, the names of the heroes on these monuments and tables are controversial. I would add that the problem was already noticed in the 1990s when a special negotiating team was set up by the then voivode. This team developed a formula for treating Wehrmacht soldiers. It was considered that there should not be a name on the monuments, military degrees, Iron Crosses, helmets, swords or local names. [[♪ The bell ♪]] of 1934 An example of such a controversial monument is the monument in Opole-Gosławice. He had a turbulent history. It was built in 1933 to commemorate the soldiers who died in World War I, removed in 1976...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u572	Member, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u573	... rebuilt in 2010 by the inhabitants of Gosławice. It contains all the elements I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u574	Thank you, Member. Time's up. Excuse me, ma'am. And please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u575	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask: According to the provisions contained in the project, will non-governmental organisations be able to count on grants to search for graves, and will this grant also be allocated to archaeological works related to the documentation of war graves in research other than those carried out by the Institute of National Remembrance? I also want to ask: Will our country finally be cleansed of the relics of the past? I'm talking about monuments, as well as street patrons, and even more so. schools. The year is 2016, and in Narewka, the home town of Inki, the patron of the school is still Aleksander Wołkowicki. According to some historians, he was a Gestapo agent responsible for the release of Danuta Sidzikówna's mother to Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u576	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a specific question about the government project. It introduces, as we know, civil protection in the field of protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation. The rules on the protection of personal property will be applied, and the authorised entities are the Institute of National Remembrance and the non-governmental organisation which may bring such an action in the field of statutory activities. Minister, don't you think such a non-governmental organisation should have a statutory exemption from court costs? These charges for the protection of personal goods are not so small and that these lawsuits are effective and NGOs have shown appropriate activity in this area, I think it is worth introducing such a solution. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u578	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions. First question. Well, last week, the leader of the Civic Platform announced that if his party wins the election, he'll end it. IPN. Question to the government: Aren't you afraid that your changes will increase the frustration on the part of the Civic Platform with regard to the IPN and this action? And the second question I want to ask is that lately the IPN has shown considerable activity in the liquidation of the monuments of the Soviet Army's gratitude and has also actively taken up the removal of monuments commemorating the officers of the Civic Militia. Will such actions be carried out effectively and consistently also with regard to communist activists cooperating with the NKVD and other criminal formations that operated in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u580	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Both of these projects are some kind of surrealistic misunderstanding. In fact, I have a question for Mr. Jaki, why only 3 years for Polish concentration camps, not for life. 25 years - and after the competition, a man will no longer speak foolishly. Read Gombrowicz - this would be useful for everyone here, especially Kukiz Members15, History, Pornography, such books Gombrowicz wrote - so that you have any idea of what we are talking about today. Do you want relations with Ukraine so tense, so dramatic, so uncompromising in your projects? This is absolutely irresponsible. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's not much of us here. I have a proposition for the High House. Let us invite here, to parliament, filmmakers Volyn, let us see this film and let us talk meaningfully about history, about ourselves, about crimes, about how it is worth thinking about Poland and about Polish-Ukrainian relations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u582	Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Kryj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u583	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The problem of assigning to Poles crimes committed by Germans during World War II is extremely serious, and so far people who used the terms "Polish death camps" or "Polish concentration camps" remained unpunished. It is good, then, that such a bill was in the Seym. However, I fear that the threat of punishment alone will not stop those who, out of ignorance or more often, will use such terms out of evil will. There is a need for a wide and long-term educational campaign, run by Polish diplomatic institutions or cultural institutes. It is necessary for the awareness of the societies of other countries to be heard that Poles were a nation of victims. What actions are planned to strengthen these laws? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u584	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u585	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our society is seriously ill. Representatives of the public in the form of Members of the Polish Parliament also, unfortunately, show signs of serious illness. This disease is political correctness. Political correctness, which is expressed in the fact that many people do not speak, does not call things by name. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For example, during the victim's war, when fleeing from the oppressors, they said: Attention, be careful, Germany. Today it's called the Nazis. I have a question: What is the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Poland going to do to make it public in the world, and to clearly break through to the awareness of the public in the world that these were German crimes...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u586	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u587	...not Nazi, just German crimes, German crimes, German army? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u588	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Patrick Jaki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u589	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! To answer the questions raised by this speaker, I would like to say that if I heard the thread of Silk and if someone, as a Polish Member, remembered only Silke from World War II, I must tell you honestly that education - this is a word that has repeatedly fallen from this speaker - would be very useful because the Polish people during World War II were one of the most, if not the most, heroic. If we want to find examples of this type of behavior, you can find a lot of them, but if someone wants to pull Silk on purpose, then I wonder what it has to do with it. He wants to humiliate a Polish nation who does not deserve this because of its behaviour during World War II. Another matter, why the Third Reich, the Nazis. This is a very important topic, but I want to show that there's a misunderstanding here. I always pay attention to this kind of formulation. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 55a of this law is a record saying directly: the Third German Reich. I am not running away from the German word, I am fully aware that there is no such thing as the Nazis, that the vermacht was a regular German army, not Ukrainian, not Latvian, not Polish, not Nazi, only German. I have no doubt about it. That's why there's a precise record in the bill. Further repeated doubts related to possible critical opinions on freedom of expression and critical opinions that appeared in relation to the original draft of this law, but that's why we wrote this countertype about freedom of research. Some of the people who submitted comments have already withdrawn from these comments in connection with this provision. Further emerging questions whether there were doubts that if these rules came into force, it would be worse for us than in other countries. I would like to say to the High House that denial of the Holocaust is punishable in all European Union countries on the basis of the European Union Framework Decision of 2008, and in some countries criminalisation goes much further than this project. [[Applause]] It's good to know. Further doubts raised in the speeches concern that the regulations we propose may be ineffective, and how they will help in such situations, if foreign newspapers, important, large newspapers, repeat information about Polish concentration camps. Here our answer is that we are creating a series of tools, a catalogue of tools that will effectively fight such publications, because so far there has been no procedural card for anyone who would like to make a claim, because there was no hard basis in Polish law. We create this hard foundation, for example, by art. 53o, compiling it together with art. 55a. It was also often the case that if some Polish entities had a claim against foreign media, these foreign media themselves said: but immediately, after all, you in Poland do not have regulated these matters, you can not even rely precisely on regulations or case law which would indicate that you are right in this regard, i.e. if you did not regulate these matters in Poland, then what do you want from us? And it is our proposal that responds to this kind of action. That is why we create a firm procedural card for this type of claim and believe that it can be effective. Another question is whether it may not even be a question, maybe even a statement that we are violating this bill of freedom of individuals. It is I who would like to say, High Izbo, that freedom of speech is not an absolute value, that it cannot be so that someone in the framework of freedom of speech speaks to the Polish people about the Holocaust, about the Holocaust. No. Poles were also in Auschwitz and other places of execution. It's an outrageous lie, and we can't let that happen. Freedom of speech, here is the limit of freedom of speech, which is neither an absolute value. Another question was whether NGOs could obtain subsidies for archaeological research. Yeah, they can get funds for archaeological research. Should Polish law support non-governmental organisations that will make such a claim? This is a topic for discussion as to whether this would cause an avalanche of this type of lawsuits, but should not be done by special organisations set up by a state that would work with third sector organisations. This is for further discussions. We are open to such proposals as how to solve this financial element, but rather not at the level of this normative act. And lastly, our relationship to print 771, by the Kukiz Club. I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice welcomes the idea put forward in this project. We believe that in terms of lying about crimes in Volhynia, in Małopolska and in general crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists, we need a legal solution. We have reservations. on specific provisions of a legislative nature, but we are already declaring in advance, if Kukiz wishes to, help in finding the right legal formula at the next legislative stage. On the other hand, such a project is absolutely necessary as to its intention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u590	The representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Romankowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u591	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the proposal that Minister Jaki has made regarding the cooperation on the drafting of a joint draft of the second reading, which I hope will lead to tomorrow's vote. I'll settle for some questions. I say parts, because sometimes you have repeated the same issues, so I'm going to try to answer them in a wholesale way. The first point concerns the appropriateness of submitting our regulation. If we look at the meaning of art. 1 of our change, assuming to add alongside the communist and Nazi crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich, this results in a greater effort of the Institute of National Remembrance, and believe me, Mr Święcicki... You're nodding your head right now. I remember an event organized by the Institute of National Remembrance in the days of President Leon Kieres, e.g. bike rally in the footsteps of UPA fights in Lublin, so unfortunately also such scandalous situations took place with the participation of the Institute of National Remembrance. As for these items concerning the genocide process itself in the Polish nation, the issue of commemorating our fellow countrymen murdered in the East, there are a whole lot of tasks. Yesterday, during the meeting, during the book promotion I mentioned, Dr. Leon Popek recalled two very important figures in my opinion. About 160,000. Poles were murdered as a result of organized genocide on the Polish nation, but also on the nations forming the community of the Second Republic. Here I think primarily of Jews, Czechs, Slovaks, Armenians and Ukrainians themselves. So far our compatriots, identified and buried in graves, have about 5% of this total number of 160 thousand. That's a shocking number. Ladies and gentlemen, our compatriots have not yet seen a plaque commemorating their place. Forests and bushes grow on their graves, sometimes there are trash cans, and worst of all, at this moment in places where our people are buried in collective graves, there are monuments commemorating their murderers. This Polish country must say clearly and decisively: no. This is why we need an instrument for the Institute of National Remembrance to strengthen this work so that we gradually reach another level of discovery of the truth and commemoration of the places of execution of our compatriots. Without this, the Institute of National Remembrance will not really put the proper pressure, and the work is very much. There is tension between Polish researchers, who go there on their own during their holidays, bring together groups of students, young people who search for, commemorate such places. The Ukrainian community is currently afraid of adopting regulations that threaten criminal or administrative sanctions for denying the heroic virtues of the OUN-UPA warriors who were the murderers of the Polish nation. As far as the time issue, which also appeared here, I would like to point out, because I had the impression that the state, as you presented time issues, focused only on World War II. Of course, at that time we had the greatest escalation, incomparable with another period the number of cases of murders or even organized genocide, as I mentioned earlier, in the Polish nation. We accepted the time-cezure of 1925 and 1950. We can discuss this, we can move it to earlier years, we can move it to later. The Polish-Ukrainian war from 1919 to 1921 could only be considered, in my opinion, a picture depicted in the definition of Ukrainian nationalism and collaboration with the Third Reich. Let us remember about the assassination of the Polish Minister of Interior of Pieracki. It was difficult to find a second minister so favorable for reconciliation or cooperation between the Polish and Ukrainian people. And it is precisely because he was a advocate of friendship and good neighbourly relations that he was murdered by OUN-UPA and Stepan Bandera bandits. As far as territorial restrictions are concerned, we are also so convinced that this definition, which is proposed in the article. 2a, it should be extended so that these areas which are located behind Curzon's line, i.e. in today's Poland, where also organised genocide and acts of terror took place, are properly defined. As regards the Lithuanian issue mentioned by the Member, thank you very much for this proposal. We are very open to raising and joining this issue during the second reading during the committee work so that it does not seem exceptional that we want to stigmatize only Ukrainians. We also want to remember the crimes committed by the Lithuanians, the crimes cited here in the Ponars. As far as the limitation of the Second World War is concerned, I have already explained this issue in part here. This is the moment of this greatest escalation. There's a temporal cesarea that we've outlined. You claim that this cesuria is not within the limits of the National Remembrance Institute Act, which was established in 1917 and 1990. I would like to point out that the research into the Nazi crimes that the Institute of National Remembrance deals with is essentially focused on the 1939-1945 period, so this temporary cesarea is relatively short. We can really talk about communist crimes when it comes to the years 1917 and 1990. As regards the last question that Mr Święcicki also asked about jurisdiction, whether we can stop someone, unlike Mr Ryska, I do not think that the Treaty of Ricky still applies and that Polish services can be used in Western Ukraine to bring before the Polish justice system people who glorify such actions. And to be perfectly honest, this applies primarily to this huge number of economic immigrants who are currently in Poland, Ukrainians, whose, according to various indicators - these numbers vary - is from at least 1 and 2 million. It is also about cases, which I also mentioned, about books sent by the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance, which directly glorify the oppressors of the Polish nation. The Polish taxpayer finances the functioning of the school in which such materials are located. It's unthinkable. That's what this Article-related mechanism is for. 55, so that this sanction deters, at the same time, this awareness of legal and criminal responsibility for glorifying and undermining genocide will clearly affect the awareness of Poles, but also those Ukrainians who come to Poland to work so that they do not hang portraits of Bandera in their home, do not put red and black flags in their car, which are evidently a symbol of the criminal formations of murdering Poles, so that they do not glorify SS Galizien. If there's someone in Lviv, he sees this symbolism painted by the hooligans on the walls practically every third street. We do not want to allow even more escalation of this type of phenomenon in Poland, so that there are no torches with torches leading the conduct with the portrait of Stepan Bandera. This is unthinkable, this is contrary to the Polish state's right, which is why we are very pleased with the declaration of the majority of parliamentary clubs of good will regarding cooperation, as far as further work on this project is concerned, so that we can reach a compromise which I hope will satisfy all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u592	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u593	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Poland was the first to recognise Ukraine's independence. Today, when Ukrainians face another threat to their sovereignty, they need our support even more. It is only possible if we know that we share the same values. It's a good time to have an honest conversation, also about the painful moments of our neighborhood. Therefore, I would like to ask: Does the IPN plan to conduct a historical policy directed directly to Ukrainians residing in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u594	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals, contained in print No 771, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in print at first reading 806. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights submitted a report on the citizens' draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion and the Law of 6 June 1997 on the Penal Code. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on ratification adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992 (Prints Nos 886 and 900). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, the Joint Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs have carried out the first reading of the Government's draft ratification act adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992. High Izbo! The agreement adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015 offers an opportunity to reduce the rate of carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere so that, according to the adopted mathematical model, the increase in global average temperature is not greater than two degrees compared to the pre-industrial period. In principle, the Paris Agreement involves all countries in the world, including the largest pollutant issuers such as China, the United States or India. The Paris Agreement allows action to be taken to reduce the concentration of carbon dioxide, but taking into account the economic specificities of individual countries, and represents a return to basic findings, to the spirit of the climate convention. The Polish contribution, I will tell you more, the contribution of the Minister of Environment, Professor Jan Szyszko, is a provision in this document that takes account of the carbon balance and removal of carbon dioxide. Since, as agreed in the Paris Agreement, it enters into force after ratification by countries with a minimum emissions of 55% Global emissions can be said to have already entered into force, as 60 countries have ratified them, including the largest carbon issuers - China, the United States or India. 30 September Council of the European Union The Environment, the Assembly of Environment Ministers of the European Union, adopted a decision on ratification and yesterday the European Parliament held a debate. Thus, negotiations on the implementation of this agreement will begin at the COP conference in Marrakesh, which will take place at the beginning of November. So Poland should be present there, because absent people do not have a voice. We must therefore urgently ratify so that by 7 October we can send a notification to our country for this conference. High Izbo! It should be noted that the 1992 Climate Convention is a framework, sets out the objective of stabilising the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and lays down general principles for the cooperation of States Parties to achieve it, while the Kyoto Protocol of 11 December 1997 provides for specific actions and targets for reducing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the parties listed in Annex B to that Protocol. The amendment to the 2012 Protocol, drawn up in the Doha with the objectives of reducing emissions for 2013 and 2020 did not enter into force because it had not been ratified by sufficient number of parties. High Izbo! The Paris Agreement is a new opening, a way out of the deadlock, opening the way for implementation of the climate convention after almost 25 years. Thus, firstly, it ensures that emissions are reduced by the solidarity of all countries and not only of developed countries. As climate change is a global problem, it should be addressed by a coordinated, joint effort of all countries. In order to achieve satisfactory results, it is essential to involve all countries, especially the largest economies, in particular reducing the risk of carbon leakage. Secondly, the current system was based on rigid solutions, i.e. any change required the adoption and ratification of the amendments, which led to the need for ongoing negotiations. The Paris Agreement, on the other hand, agreed on more flexible solutions to ensure sustainability in changing circumstances. The Paris Agreement introduces the so-called. the distribution cycle, i.e. national contributions. All participating countries are required to make regular contributions according to their capacity and each subsequent contribution should be higher than the previous one. The renewal of contributions is to take place over a cycle: a global review, communication of contributions, transparency assessment and implementation. Again: another global review, etc. Such a procedure removes the need for continuous negotiations and ratification. Thirdly, the Paris Agreement establishes a single system for the settlement of greenhouse gas emissions and removals, a uniform system for monitoring, reporting and verification. It applies to all parties. The Parties will be required to submit national inventory reports to the Secretariat of the Convention at least every 2 years, to provide data to verify progress in the implementation of national contributions and to pass through expert reviews of the data transmitted. Fourthly, the measures taken to reduce emissions depend on the country-specific circumstances and should be defined at national level. Climate protection measures should be supported by economic incentives, i.e. clear market mechanisms of a predictable and stable nature, in order to ensure the conditions for investment, including private sector investment in emission reduction measures. Fifthly, the Paris Agreement takes into account the fact that the fight against global warming affects very many groups of people, affects entire communities, affects their rights, affects their development opportunities. Therefore, the agreement establishes an obligation to cooperate with a view to better education in order to build public awareness, public participation and universal access to information on this subject. Furthermore, the agreement considers key issues such as the transition of the labour market to create decent, suitable jobs and respect for human rights. High Izbo! The Joint Committees: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and Foreign Affairs carried out work on the draft print bill No 886 submitted after the first reading and requested the adoption of the draft law contained in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 900. In the course of the work, the Commission adopted proposals for the Legislative Office on the wording of the title of the bill and the article. 1 of this draft and adopted the amendment of the Group of Members to the article. 2 with a proposal to shorten vacathio legis. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I ask the High House to adopt a draft law in print No 900. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u596	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Paluch will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Climate policy does not have to be a policy of restrictions, but of taking advantage of opportunities that give a clean environment that gives sustainable development. This climate policy should take account of the carbon balance, i.e. study the carbon dioxide emissions ratio to be absorbed by well-functioning elements of the natural environment - forests, meadows, soils. High Izbo! We cannot unintelligently and without looking at the economic impact, on the impact on local communities, for large groups of citizens, accept and accept the demands of countries above us developed, which want Poland to impose the use of expensive technologies in the field of energy extraction, and this is what we have been dealing with in previous years. I'll tell you more, so-called. decarbonisation, which has been promoted in Brussels in recent years and which the previous government, PO-PSL, has accepted, exposed us, i.e. Poland, to a greater dependence on Russian gas supplies. The climate and energy package, which Prime Minister Tusk boasted in 2008 as a great success: I will remind you - 20% reduction in carbon dioxide, 20% energy from renewable sources and 20% the increase in efficiency, was, say, debatable. High Izbo! The COP21 in Paris negotiated, first of all, that all countries assume their responsibilities. Moreover, this is not an agreement that eliminates coal, it is an agreement that defines the framework for the sustainable development of the world as a whole. We can say that we are returning to the sources of climate policy, and the concentration of greenhouse gases can be reduced by rational use of energy resources: coal, oil, gas. We also assume a greater share of renewable energy sources, but with carbon dioxide we can use this gas to regenerate natural systems, namely forests, fields, agricultural soils and peat bogs. I would like to emphasise once again this provision on the balance of emissions and absorption, i.e. Polish contribution to this Paris Agreement. It can be said without exaggeration that competence and knowledge at the global level have served the common good of all Poles. Poland has a chance to stop being this black people, including the enfant terrible, the constantly reprimanded for coal energy. We can use... Let me remind you that [[♪ The bell ♪]] CO2 emissions per capita in Poland are 10 t per year, compared to 20 t Luxembourg and 12 t Germany is not such a bad result at all. High Izbo! On behalf of my club, the Law and Justice Club, I declare that we will vote in favour of the proposed bill and we will do so with great satisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u598	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u599	The Civic Platform Club is in favour of ratifying the Paris Agreement. It was a tough deal. The fight against climate change in order to be effective must cover all the countries of our planet. After many attempts at subsequent COP summits, the art of global agreement went to Paris. This was done by changing the approach, when, over the years, individual summits tried to force individual states to declare the target of CO2 reduction, French diplomacy, with the participation of Poland, slightly changed their reasoning and led to a global agreement on the reduction target of these 2%. to the times of the pre-industrial era in a voluntary manner, i.e. such as the country considers appropriate and most effective. But it must be realized that ratification of the Paris Agreement is not the end, but the beginning of the path to implementation. Before Poland a difficult task, how to achieve the necessary CO2 reduction targets in the coming years. Renewable energy sources need to be developed and the share of coal in the energy mix reduced. Unfortunately, I am not convinced that this is a priority in the actions of the current government. And we need to know that we are also connected with the European Union's climate policy, which is going to radically rebuild energy sources, aiming at maximum green energy. Poland has achieved its reduction targets from the Kyoto Protocol. It would be good for Poland now to use this time to increase the innovation of technologies used in the production of green energy. This commitment in the Paris Agreement to reduce CO2 as an opportunity for economic development and job creation, and new jobs must be considered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u600	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The most important objective of the Paris Agreement is to minimise the increase in global average temperature so as to prevent global warming from increasing by more than 2°C. The agreement provides for multi-annual actions to be checked and strengthened every 5 years. The Ministry of Environment informed the public that Poland would agree to the accelerated ratification of the climate agreement concluded at the summit in Paris if the interests of the Polish economy were taken into account. Minister Jan Szyszko sent a letter to environmental ministers from the countries of the European Union. He wrote that the Republic would agree to the accelerated ratification of the climate agreement only on its own terms if the interests of our economy were secured. The ratification process has already started, so I hope that the Minister will answer whether all our demands have been met. The Minister's letter quoted serious media in Europe. The Minister wrote in it that Poland is a country rich in energy sources and energy security based on its own resources, i.e. coal and brown coal, is the basis of the Polish economy and sustainable development. Isn't the quick path of ratification sometimes at the expense of our interests? It has become clear that the European Union wants to accept the project as a whole, without waiting for all the other countries, but that is what it takes to be unanimous. So there is a concern that in this haste we have not been forced into some regulations that are detrimental to our country. Therefore, the Ministry in the international arena says one thing, and in Poland it does the other. Among the experts there is no lack of opinion that the Paris Agreement is ratified in a hurry to make it before the US presidential elections. If Donald Trump was president and the agreement came into force before his presidency, it would be much harder for him to withdraw from it in the future. Signing up for this hysterical procession can be at the expense of our interests and compromise future governments. To date, the agreement has ratified 61 countries responsible for 52% of global emissions. India joined the group a few days ago. In this situation, it is sufficient that the agreement is ratified by Germany and France, and it will simply start to apply. Our negotiations should have taken place a year ago. Now it's just a branding of taking care of our interests, since the agreement will come into force soon enough. Therefore, the question arises as to who and why has neglected our negotiations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u602	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle to the Government's bill of ratification adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992. The main objective of the Paris Agreement is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the global solidarity effort of all countries. In a climate change era, only such coordinated action throughout the world can bring about proper and measurable results. It is not without significance that countries with a very developed economy, among others. China and the United States have ratified the Paris Agreement, which will facilitate the implementation of the sustainable development of the world. While working in the commission on the bill, the Minister of the Environment argued in a very factual way that ratification of the Paris Agreement is not only necessary, but above all beneficial for Poland. This agreement is important for our country for several reasons, but the most important thing is that it takes into account the specificities of the Polish economy and the environment. In order to protect the climate, Poland can continue to use its own raw materials and selected ways of producing energy under this agreement. It is very important that Poland retains the right to choose the way and pace of transition to a low-carbon economy. Unlike the previous Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreement contains very flexible solutions that allow for the gradual implementation of the system. By quickly ratifying the Paris Agreement, Poland will already have the opportunity to sit at the table in Marrakesh in the elite countries which ratified the agreement. I consider it very important to be able to build up my position and express my opinion among 60 countries. It is therefore not meaningless that accession to the Paris Agreement will have a positive effect on the credibility of our foreign policy, as well as on our climate policy within the European Union. Due to the recommendation of the joint committees and the belief that Poland will gain a better position in the world, the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u604	Thank you very much, Member. Two Members joined the questions. If there are no more calls, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Sylwester Khrushch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister if we had any respect for the losses, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] what we will carry as a country in the introduction of all these solutions. If we have the negotiations that we have, and we can actually already determine the conditions under which our economy will operate, do we have estimates of how many mines we will have to close, what restrictions will be imposed on our economy, and what losses can we have as a result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u606	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u607	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have a brief question for the Minister. Because in some club speeches there were doubts about the determination of the Polish government to take care of the development of renewable energy sources, I will remind you that our geothermal resources - I am talking about Polish resources - are far beyond our country's needs. So I wanted to ask the Minister to bring these points closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u608	Thank you very much, Member. I would therefore ask you to answer the questions of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment, Minister Paul Salek. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In answer to Mrs Paluch's question about how our geothermal resources are currently forming, I would like to say that Poland, when it comes to this energy raw material, because that is how it can be called, which is located in the country, is very rich, in Poland there are several geothermal installations that only function in the thermal energy production system for the time being, but recently, a few days ago, the National Water Management Fund together with Geotermia Podhalańska prepared a project that will give the possibility of producing electricity from geothermal energy. So that here this possibility of producing renewable energy in the country exists, functions and is possible. In answer to Mr Khrushch's question, I would like to say that the Paris Agreement is a kind of commitment to commitments, if you can call it that, because we, in our agreement that we ratify, will be able to shape our approach to climate protection on a voluntary basis and in the way we will best respond. This is what has already been said in this Chamber today, which is a radical departure from the fact that there are certain reduction objectives, and the transition to voluntaryity depending on how a country takes care of its energy security, cares for its natural resources, cares for climate protection. Therefore, the Paris Agreement, in the light of these commitments which have been implemented so far in terms of climate policy, is so good that, as I said, this is a voluntary approach, there are no precisely set reduction targets. In addition, it is introduced in the Paris Agreement with regard to absorption and in general to the reduction of carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere. We're not talking about reductions here. European climate policy, on the other hand, talks about reductions. Therefore, in the current situation of all that is happening in the world in terms of climate protection, this is a good agreement which we should also ratify because the case has accelerated for two months, and here it cannot be said what you said in your speech that something has been neglected, because the agreement so for a good cause has not yet been a year since it was adopted in Paris in December. In April this year, it was signed by a majority, basically all the countries of the world, and now it has turned out that they have decided to ratify the emission power, the United States and China, for two months there has been a radical acceleration associated with ratification. We want to implement this ratification act and become a party to the Kyoto Protocol, so that at the first meeting we can so-called. CMA, the parties to the Paris Protocol conference, be at the table with full voting rights. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u610	Thank you very much. Would the draftsman of the committee, Anna Paluch, like to speak? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of this item, I just wanted to thank the representatives of the cups for their declaration of support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u612	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u613	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the committee on the government bill on ratification adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015. The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992. The success of the diplomatic organisers of the COP21 Summit is facaded as the climate agreement will not have a significant impact on CO2 emissions reduction and the agreement is actually a declaration of good intentions. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate change - the IPCC, in order to avoid catastrophic climate change, needs to reduce the increase in global average temperature below 2°C. This requires stopping CO2 concentrations in the air below 450 ppm - CO2 particles per million air particles - which is only possible if global CO2 emissions are reduced by 40%. by 2050 in relation to 2010 However, the content of the Treaty does not leave any illusions. The agreement does not contain strict emission reduction commitments by major issuers. Unfortunately, the provision to keep the temperature rise below 1,5.2°C compared to the pre-industrial era can be interpreted by the EU as taking a more ambitious approach than the previous one. Although the proposed treaty, which will be open for signature by States at UN headquarters from 22 April 2016, has no specific and binding provisions as in the Kyoto Agreement, there are significant risks. Namely, the European Commission is always more ambitious than the rest of the world. The way the Union interprets the new treaty is the biggest threat to Poland. Supporters of radical decarbonisation have failed to maintain concrete, binding and ambitious provisions that could have a real impact on the reduction of global emissions. From a global perspective, emissions will continue to grow consistently. Many entries in the COP21 Paris Agreement have been diluted or deleted, including. at the initiative of the US and China. Stopping global warming is our debt to future generations. Despite strong reservations, Modern is in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u614	The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015 establishes multilateral rules on climate protection after 2020 under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, established in New York on 9 May 1992. The agreement calls for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, recognising that this will take longer for developing countries. Action to reduce CO2 emissions will be taken by all parties to the agreement while respecting their specificities and socio-economic opportunities. The Paris Agreement sets the objective of keeping global temperatures below 2°C up to the end of the century. It also states that during this period we should strike a balance between greenhouse gas emissions and their absorption, among others. through the woods. Action to reduce CO2 emissions will take place, among others. by introducing new technologies or by increasing the share of renewable energy sources in the energy balance. In turn, the balancing of emissions will take place, among others. on the way to growing forestation. This last entry was introduced into the contract thanks to the determination of the Polish delegation. Countries - the parties to the agreement - will be able to implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while respecting their socio-economic specificities. The Climate Agreement will enter into force when ratified by at least 55 States - signatories to the Climate Convention - which are responsible for 55% global emissions. It is expected that it should apply by the end of 2020 at the latest. The agreement at the Paris Climate Summit does not impose any specific commitments on its signatories, it does not talk about decarbonisation and allows the balancing of emissions by forestation. This is an argument for Poland for the announced efforts to renegotiate the EU climate package. Countries supporting the agreement at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change have advocated a binding objective of reducing the global average temperature increase by 2°C and have promised to make every effort to reduce it to 1.5°C. However, they did not impose on themselves the means to achieve this. The document also includes a mechanism to compensate for losses caused by climate change, which could lead to an increase in sea levels, droughts and desertification. The mechanism of loss and Damage set up at the Warsaw Summit (COP19) was also clarified, although without specific commitments. It provides support for developed countries to combat losses in developing countries, i.e. funding by richer countries to eliminate the damage caused by climate change in poorer countries. There were no references to human rights due to resistance from the United States, Norway and the United Kingdom. The document also states that developed countries should, and must not, make an effort to finance energy transformation. The draft does not include references to decarbonisation, taxes or penalties for greenhouse gas emissions, but it is voluntary to introduce emission trading mechanisms. COP21 calls only on countries to create more ambitious plans to combat climate change. They are to report regularly on their progress from 2018 every 5 years. The PSL Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u615	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Robert Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u616	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to make a formal request to close this session of the Sejm because, today, we have been dealing with this - both Members of the Civic and Modern Platform have arranged an embarrassing Sabbath at the Justice Committee. [[Count your words.]] [[The PiS has put on an embarrassing performance.]] The scream we heard at the committee meeting was all the more embarrassing that it was a voice and a scream for killing unborn children. It was just a scandalous scream. On the other hand, at the same meeting of the Committee on Justice, at which the citizens' initiative was examined, we could not hear the applicants' representatives at all. The applicants weren't allowed to speak at all because of the jazz that the Platform made with the Modern... [[Mr President, please choose your words more carefully.]] ...but also because of the desire of the ruling party, PiS... [[PiS is running away from responsibility.]] ...to shut this matter down as soon as possible. And this subject can be closed as soon as possible, just by making a good law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the "Stop Abortion" initiative? That's why I bring it up. [[Applause]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Voice of objection, Mr Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u617	No, this formal motion is inadmissible, so that I do not object. Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u618	Mr. Marshal! I request that the session of the Sejm be adjourned until noon. 9:00 a.m. I justify my conclusion that today is an embarrassing spectacle. About an hour. 17 MEPs suddenly learned that the matter had suddenly accelerated. Members at 3 p.m. 17 found out about it, and later they found out that today they were going to debate it. You were scared of Polish women, but you were even more scared that you were scared. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That is why you do not want to hold this debate today. That's why I bring it up as above.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u619	Thank you. This application is also unauthorised. No one objected at the time this point was set. We'll proceed with the examination... [[Voice from the room: Why is it unauthorized?]] [[Voice from the hall: But who set this order?]] [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, on what basis is the application inadmissible?]] [[Please state your reasons, Marshal.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: What is the basis for this request?]] I'm asking you to calm down. The hour is late. Don't let your emotions get the better of you. [[Mr. Marshal is making a mockery.]] We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Civil Rights draft law amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for the admissibility of abortion and the Law of 6 June 1997 on Penal Code (Prints No 784 and 907). I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u620	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament held its 26th meeting on 23 September this year. He made a bill... [[The committee's rapporteur? Who chose you?]] Excuse me? You didn't object. [[There was no vote. There was no procedure at all.]] [[There was an objection on the committee.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u621	Mr President, don't argue with the room, just say what you have to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u622	Good. [[How can a committee be represented by someone who was not elected to represent it?]] [[Do your job.]] This project is addressed to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Today, the justice committee after considering this project... At the meeting, requests were made to postpone the sitting until 11 January 2017, which was rejected. There were two applications for rejection... [[Were you on this committee?]] Take it easy, sir, take it easy. I was. I was in the front row. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Daniel, say yours. Don't be provoked.]] [[Speak your language, my friends tell me. Never mind the rules, say yours.]] [[I can't see anything. I can't hear anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u623	Mr Dunin, I ask you to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u624	Two applications were submitted for rejection of this draft law as well as a request for a public hearing. In conjunction with the article. 70a paragraph. 7 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in the event of an application for rejection of a draft law, this request shall be settled before the application for a public hearing is decided. Commission by a majority of 17 votes in favour, 1 vote against, 1 abstention... [[There was 15 on the board.]] ...says that the High Sejm should reject the citizens' bill amending the Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, the protection of the human foetus and the conditions for the admissibility of abortion and the Law of 6 June 1997 of the Penal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u625	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the report shall be held without the right to submit amendments and proposals. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present our position on Seym Printing 784 and 907. The issue concerns the civil project, which I think is worth highlighting, because in this debate which has gone beyond the framework of Parliament and has been held in different places, it seems that this has been forgotten. It was also forgotten about the procession, which was, about the motion to reject the liberal project, which was submitted by the club of the Polish People's Party, and about the whole shape of the discussion on these two projects. As a matter of fact, with regard to the civil project, I must, first of all, maintain these opinions that I expressed at first reading when I mentioned that, certainly, despite the freedom of conscience, despite the freedom to vote, no one in Law and Justice is thinking about punishing women. I also talked about issues related to eugenic abortion, about the fact that - because these are statistics - 1/3 of people with Down syndrome in Poland are aborted. [[Where'd it come from?]] Those are the facts, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about abortion, we must remember that. These are hard data and I can, of course, make them available to you in the form of the results of relevant scientific research. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of this, it is also necessary to mention and remind that during these last days there has been information about additional, other initiatives that will be taken on this issue, precisely within the limits of the mentioned eugenics, and in particular those with Down syndrome, who are having abortion in Poland. And finally, also referring to this... [[Member, this is not a movie.]] [[What are you afraid of now?]] ...which was held today at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, the unbelievable whining is in the O.R. today... [[Quiet. And you say it's yawning.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u627	Please don't disturb the appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u628	As a matter of fact... [[Game in the O.R.]] You guys talk all the time, but okay, I understand that's your style. This is, I understand, a kind of continuation of what was happening at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. And we were dealing with some new facts there. The representatives of the Civic and Modern Platform in an extremely sharp and uncompromising way fought to ensure that the citizens' law was dealt with as long as possible. I understand you've been very anxious to have at least until January... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But it's a hard part, sir, to turn the cat around.]] [[Turn the cat around with a tail.]] ... The Sejm was working on a civic project... [[No, we want him to work by the book.]] ...which I'll leave without comment. I understand that you have changed your mind about this matter, and in an absolutely fundamental way... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: We do not.]] [[We don't, it's you.]] [[Try harder, sir.]] ...and I think that [[Applause]] from the point of view of the public debate, this explains a lot to all the parties who participated in this debate, also outside the walls of the Sejm. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: What position of the club?]] [[Voice from the hall: What position of the club?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u629	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, with a formal request... but another formal request... for a change in the way the proceedings are conducted.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Today's committee work, the work that came out of your panic because you panicked after Monday's protests... [[What are you impputing us with?]] ...the work we've been trying to get it to be done in accordance with the rules of the Sejm... [[And you think slowly.]] We know very well. [[Applause]] That you have no respect for the law. But we require that respect, because it is necessary for this process to be in accordance with the law, and for it to be impossible to be overthrown at a later time. [[Voice from the hall: How are the children?]] Ladies and gentlemen, who is the sword of an ideological struggle, the sword of an ideological struggle is the death of one. [[Ask your Member Zbonikowski.]] You've tried... [[Mr President, please calm down and don't yell.]] ...to start an ideological war already in previous terms, when, let me remind you, you voted for a complete ban on abortion. You've moved into this row - the one that's really gonna be hard for you to get out of. You will remain locked up like a vice between religious fanatics and Polish women, because Polish women will not forgive you. [[Applause]] [[Please refer to the subject.]] You have failed to respect the compromise that has been in force for the past 23 years... [[You're obsessed with us.]] ...a compromise that has less and less followers, and it's your fault. [[Applause]] Today, with the great mosquito, you're trying to fight the problems you've created. But you're very successful. You've woken up people who have never been in politics before. You woke up women of all ages from different backgrounds... [[Abandon all hope you enter here.]] ...women who have never dealt with political issues. You have awakened their partners, their husbands, their sons, their fathers. And you did it because of your ideological urges. But even though they weren't interested in politics, politics took care of them because she tried to get into their bedroom in dirty shoes. [[Voice from the room: Is Biernacki in the room?]] For many months of the previous term we warned them about you, we failed, but now you have shown them your true face and they will not forget this lesson. The Polish will not allow you to lead them like rams to slaughter. [[Voice from the room: Don't talk about yourselves.]] This herd of rams you tried to lead to the slaughter... [[The Member is obsessed.]] ...you're losing it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u631	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u632	Just a few days ago, there was a chance to avoid a law tightening up abortion law and punishing women in prison. This barbaric law could be replaced by a resolution respecting the compromise made in the Seym in April by the Civic Platform, but you rejected our voice of reason! [[Don't scream, there are microphones here.]] It was obvious that any attempt to violate laws left or right is an incentive to start an ideological and worldview war in Poland. And that's what you did - you started the Polish-Polish war, you divided the Poles, you violated the compromise. You do all this against women, against Poles and women will not forget it. [[You'd want war, but you won't wait.]] Today, in the committee of justice, we demanded the rejection of this barbaric project, which takes away women's fundamental rights; a project that must force women to be heroic, to fear for their lives, to fear for their health; a project that will cause pregnancy in Poland to be led by a prosecutor rather than a doctor. Fortunately, you were frightened by tens of thousands of women, Poles, very aware of their rights, solidarity, strong and united, from all over Poland, cities and towns. They shouted to you, "We're pissed off!" We women disagree! Leave us alone because we have our rights, and don't buy us because we're not a commodity. Or a worse sort! Finally take care of your conscience, not the conscience of women, not our conscience! [[Don't yell, Member.]] Leave our conscience alone! Today, High Izbo, in Poland the revolution has the face of a woman, today in Europe the revolution has the face of a Polish woman, today we have won the battle and I will tell you one thing: we will also win the war because we will be mindful of our affairs and we will be stronger because we are not folding umbrellas... [[What's that?]] ...and black Monday and black protest were just a warning. [[You're not gonna wait. You can't start a war. Take it easy.]] The Civic Platform Club is in favour of rejecting this barbaric project and will vote so. [[Applause]] [[Take it easy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u633	Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u634	Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u635	You're welcome to leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u636	I'm asking myself... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You should allow a formal motion at any time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u637	Please leave the podium. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: You will come down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u638	No!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u639	Wait, you just reported...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u640	You're just violating the rules of the parliamentary debate!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u641	Okay, Mr. Experienced will. Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u642	No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u643	Please leave the podium. I'll let you in after the club talk. You're welcome to leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u644	Mr. Marshal, you're simply acting against the Sejm's rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u645	Mr President, I understand that you are looking into this for your five minutes, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But please leave the platform and wait for me to allow you to make a formal request. I'll let you in after the club talk. Please, Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know how to start my speech on behalf of the Kukiz Club15... [[From the beginning.]] [[Maybe: Excuse me on behalf of Mr. Kukiz?]] ...to describe the festival of hypocrisy and hypocrisy founded on us, among others. by you, Mr Civic Platform Member, and your colleagues, but not only by the hysterical opposition of the Platform and the Modern - also by the ruling option. [[Voice from the hall: And licensed as you.]] [[And an appetizer.]] What we've been dealing with in the last few days can't be described, can't be described, can't be described as large-scale fraud. You cheated from the law, from the inside and from the left of the speaker. [[Voice from the room: Who signed the in vitro project?]] The PiS state, you've fooled half a million people, half a million citizens who signed up for a civil project. You promised these people to lean on this project, and today you basically rejected it without a single word of discussion about it. [[Applause]] You didn't allow a word to be said to the party making the project or the other side. You filed a motion very quickly to reject this project and this project was rejected. The state on the other hand, from the Civic Platform and from the Modern, very quickly sensed their 5 minutes... [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: It's like Kukiz today.]] ...to attack the ruling party again. In a hypocritical way, you used protesting women to create a false impression of helping them. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Get down!]] [[And you insulted them.]] In fact, the goal was completely different, the goal was much more selfish. You only care about your support posts. [[Applause]] And that's the truth. [[What about ……]] In fact, upholding women's rights doesn't make any sense to you... [[For your leader.]] ...which you proved today at the justice committee meeting. [[Voice from the hall: What does Kukiz say?]] As Kukiz, 15 were pushed into the debate... [[Apologize to the women for Kukiz.]] ...in which we didn't want to participate, [[Game in the O.R.]] Knowing that the discussion on worldview issues... Mr. Marshal, would you mind? [[Voice from the hall: Where's the bell?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u647	Quiet, please. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please don't yell. Allow me to make an appearance. [[Apologize!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u648	...knowing that the discussion on worldview issues always increases anxiety in society and arouses great emotions. We weren't wrong. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: Apologize for Kukiz.]] Thousands of women went out on the streets of the city protesting. Some were against tightening the law, some were against liberalisation, but there were also anti-government voices. Members of the Platform and of the Modern Platform, who aired a new, volatile subject, quickly appeared as a supporter. Were those sincere intentions? We received an answer today at the committee meeting. It's hard to even describe how you behaved at this committee. You weren't interested in rejecting this project when it came to this possibility. You weren't interested in anything... [[Voice from the Chamber: Who filed a motion for rejection?]] ...aside from doing another show, trying to prevent a vote on rejection. You have discovered the cards, and the motion to postpone the debate to January 11 only confirmed that you do not care about resolving the conflict or rejecting the bill. All you cared about was continuing the flying subject. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Platform and the Modern, consider changing the slogan of your parties to: Show must go on, because that is all you do in this Parliament. [[Applause]] At the same time, citizens must be told what happened in the shadow of the debate... [[At the same time apologize for Kukiz all women.]] ...abortion. Today in the Seym an anti-Citizen coalition of PiS, PO and Modern was established. These three parties, hand in hand, advocated the provisional application of the CETA agreement, a contract giving further privileges to foreign corporations... [[Apologize for Kukiz all the women.]] ...and striking Polish agriculture and small entrepreneurs. Political parties consciously create conflict, fuel negative emotions, divide Poles, while at the same time quietly, hand in hand, in full accord act against the interests of citizens. [[We'll see how you vote.]] It's people's eyes that need to stop. The Kukiz movement15 will be... [[Calm down, sir.]] ...he worked even harder to send all the hypocrites in this House for an undeserved retirement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So Kukiza needs to retire.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u649	Thank you very much. Mr Rutnicki, control your emotions, will you? [[Okay, but I'm very...]] Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll explain. Mr. Kukiz insulted all women, and it would be good for the Kukiz party to apologize for that, but...]] But I won't allow you to speak. You're not gonna explain anything. I'm not letting you speak. Please... [[With a formal application.]] ...let go of the pedestal. Mr President, control your emotions. Please leave the podium. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Sit down.]] You're welcome, Mrs. Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! You were scared, weren't you? [[What?]] For the past two weeks, I've been hearing your appeal to save a conceived life, a word about our supposed permission to kill. It's your hands, your votes you sent to the committee the Ordo Iuris project, the barbaric project, the scandalous one and the vile one. Today even Mrs Pavłowicz raised her hand high to throw this project, which you praised, into the basket. [[Applause]] Because this project in the basket, ground, should have been two weeks ago. [[Voice from the room: Citizen.]] You are not afraid of the Venice Commission, you are not afraid of the European Commission, but it turned out fortunately that someone else might stand in your way. Women, Polish women, fighting, [[Applause]] Strong, smart and ambitious. Monday... [[Right.]] ...in the pouring rain, they fought for their rights. [[This vaseline is not going to help, my fellow Member.]] You guys got scared. And I want to ask you tonight, on this evening, because of course you guys always do everything tonight... [[At night.]] ...where is your honor? Where's your honor? [[Applause]] [[Where's the marshal?]] You've been walking around the Seym for the last two weeks with your heads... [[Where's the marshal?]] ...full of clichés about life, and today out of fear of a rising wave of social rebellion unceremoniously in one moment you renounce what you were able to cut up for two weeks ago. Shame. [[Applause]] In two weeks, honourable Members of the PiS, you have deceived two social groups who have signed... [[It's not the first time.]] ...under civic projects. Two weeks ago, you crushed a project that liberalizes abortion... [[Voice from the room: Barbarian design.]] ...you put him in the trash, and today you throw a project in the trash that wants to tighten up the abortion. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! The policy ruled by chaos has taken revenge on you today, to the point that your Member, the President, has fled the committee. How do you want to rule... [[Shame.]] ...a country, if... [[Coward.]] ...you don't know how to run a committee, an ordinary parliament committee? Dear Members of the PiS! What happened this week was a lesson, remember, it was a lesson that society gave you. And be on your guard... [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare, don't scare.]] ...because this week people finally believed there was a way for you. And they'll call you back when you try to walk into their private lives with boots. [[Applause]] And little of that, they will also do so when they see that you are destroying their country, and a good change leaves nothing but ruin. It is you who cause it. Today, modern calls for the project to be rejected at second reading. [[You've already completely missed reality.]] And taking the opportunity... You don't interrupt me when I say, I didn't interrupt you. ...I would like to thank all the women who have engaged in protests in the streets, all the women who are watching your lies today, your hypocrisy and your lies. [[Make up your mind.]] Yes. And there's one more thing I'd like to make up for, Mr Kukiz. I don't see you, sir. [[Voice from the room: He's sitting there.]] Where are your Kukiz women? 15? Where? Hello, ma'am. [[They'll be here any minute.]] [[Where's the marshal?]] Hello, ma'am. I see you're paying a lot of attention to polls. You're paying attention to polls. Let Mr Kukiz apologize to all the women because he ridicules you every time he says his words. Thank you, and I submit a motion for rejection. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u651	Thank you very much, Member. The motion is unauthorized. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, please read the rules. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Please?]] This motion is unauthorized. [[Voice from the room: He can't read.]] That's not gonna happen. You're welcome, the voice has... [[The Member has focused on eloquence.]] ...Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party. [[You should have read the rules, dwarf.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u652	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When we first discussed this project, on behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, we asked for respect for different views, for a normal debate, for respect for diversity, which is in Poland. We didn't see it coming. PiS's hypocritical plan didn't come into force, but luckily it didn't come into force. You assumed that two projects that... [[Voice from the room: Your voice of hypocrisy.]] ...people report, go to committee, this liberal project will be frozen for three years, and work will be carried out on an abortion-enhancing project. It didn't work out because there was a motion to reject both projects. You voted, like other clubs, for further work on a project that tightens up abortion law. You have rejected a liberalisation project, including with other Members. You have therefore broken your flagship promise, which you have repeated from morning to evening, that every civic project will be prosecuted and there will be time for discussion in committees. Today you have shown that there is no time to discuss the conservative project, but there is time to discuss how to get religion out of school, which is what you keep in committee. You want to get religion out of school, and this project you've been so enthusiastic about... [[What are you impputing us here, sir?]] The majority of your Members, who spoke two weeks ago, supported this project with all determination. What happened in your hearts and minds because you often referred to them as going so far away from this project? You lied. You lied in the morning, night and night. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 1st at noon.]] Your political idol in Hungary seemed to be Viktor Orbán, but the truth is different. This is the socialist prime minister who used these words and then lost his power because the truth came out. [[You're not gonna wait, take it easy.]] You've disappointed the whole conservative electorate and probably the 0.5 million people who signed up for this project, in which they even referred to you as you were in the opposition. Here Mrs Mucha has noted that you have always voted in favour of tightening up every abortion law... [[Hypocritical.]] ...for tightening. Whether it was a citizens' project or a parliamentary project, all of you, like one husband, voted in favour of tightening up abortion law. Because you're brave, you're brave, you're not dependent on anything. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] If something starts to depend on you, it's the courage you lack. It was supposed to be so beautiful, it was still supposed to be a mom of a conservative electorate, working on this project, but it just couldn't. Now it's all coming out. This is the first such law that citizens have passed, but probably over the days and weeks of such laws, in which you simply get lost, there will be more and more. Something's broken, ladies and gentlemen. And you know very well that you have a big problem on the one hand and on the other hand today. You're trying to get out of this as soon as possible by holding a brief committee meeting, not even allowing applicants to put forward arguments that you so enthusiastically supported. But to reverse these losses, to make up for those losses... It is not just about the laws adopted, it is especially about the approach to the sovereign, which you so often appeal to with pleasure. You just use it and exploit it when you need it. When it goes in the wrong direction for you, you just don't respect it. [[Applause]] At the PSL club, as always, there will be no voting discipline and everyone will vote according to their own conscience. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u653	Thank you. Mr Michał Kaminski, European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u654	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The circle of European Democrats will vote this time exactly the same as last week, unlike the members of the PiS who will vote exactly the opposite of a week ago. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We are consistent in this matter, and I am consistent in this matter. But, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of Poles are watching us today, not watching the debate that was before. She was concerned with the IPN Reform Act. There was a lot about slandering the good name of Poland. And even the Penal Code is introduced to this - for slandering the good name of Poland there will be a paragraph. I'm the one who's wondering what paragraph to give to whoever gave us a commercial from Reykjavik to the Philippines... [[PiS.]] ...where every important newspaper wrote about Poland what it wrote, creating us an image of a backward country, a country that goes to the Middle Ages and does not go to the 21st century. [[Darkgarden.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've recapitulated the history of the last 10 years and the abortion debate. It is 2007, the PiS and the right-wing coalition - Lepper, Giertych has the majority. Ba, he has a constitutional majority with some of the members of the Platform. And then the Members are asking for a constitutional record of the protection of human life. Then the PiS says no. But then the PiS loses the election, there's a draft of the PiS Constitution. In the draft constitution of the PiS as an ox stands: a life protected from conception to natural death. Later, it was last year, there's a vote. Last year, all members of the PiS voted for a very restrictive abortion law. For a year the teaching of the Church in this matter has not changed, and I will remind you of the words of Jarosław Kaczyński and Beata Szydło two months ago: we will vote as the position of the Church is. People see it, people see your committee chairman fleeing this committee today, and that's what this parliament rarely sees. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But today people see that you wanted to get away from this debate. That's why she was called in emergency mode. I don't remember that mode. It would have to be a war to bring Members to the Sejm tonight. And you... [[What night? At night.]] Download to the Sejm at night. But the war, as you know, didn't go off, so I checked. [[Ideological.]] Ideological yes, very unnecessary Poland, but funded by those who behave hypocritically. And just as it has been said here, when they know that this bill will not pass, they will say, yes, we are in favour of full protection, and when they get power, they will crawl at night. However, Mr. Dzierżawski standing here, with whom I disagree, told you that I checked, I told you that I was checking your credibility in these matters, which you are talking about, that they are the most important to you. And let me tell you more: you have a good example, you take an example from a good place. It's so public and television, and I recall, ladies and gentlemen, that during the previous term there were problems with the concession for this television. It was the owner of this television that brought 100,000 here. People, because it was his money. Was there any action, picket, or is the radio buzzing about it from morning to evening? Oh, no, it's a weird guess. The money for television was a big manifa, and in a case that, according to the people who preach it, is morally important to them, there was nothing. The man I'm talking about quite recently said that he was wondering if it was a good thing that he became a priest, not a doctor, because if he had spent those years in a seminary on medical school, he would now have a more comfortable life and more money. [[Oh, my gosh.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, that's enough.]] It's so interesting for a priest to approach the words "mission," "call," isn't it? [[88 million isn't enough.]] But I have good news. A 26 million-dollar doctor's conscience won't buy it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u655	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u656	Mr. Marshal! This debate is simply illegal. Firstly, because applicants were not allowed to speak in committee because this committee was convened in a non-regular manner. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochocka: He has a disorder of consciousness.]] Secondly, because it takes place now, 2 hours after the Convention meeting, it is reading. Thirdly, because we cannot speak again, applicants are not allowed to speak. The applicant's representative could not arrive because you organised this late debate at the Sejm Bureau, and now we have such a situation that the applicants are dumb and in committee and at second reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a hucka. Fourthly, because the marshal rejects formal applications and does not give any reason. It's just that the marshal here is making a hucpa out of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u657	Okay, thank you, sir. I'll explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u658	And you as the Convention, you as the Bureau of the Sejm do it. It's just a scandal. This debate and the way your marshal conducts is a scandal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u659	Don't be nervous, sir. I'll explain. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u660	But you... this is a scandal, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u661	Thank you, sir. Your formal application was unauthorized. As regards the representative of the applicants, he will be allowed to speak immediately. [[Please state the reason why the application was inadmissible.]] Please read the article. 184. [[Please state which paragraph indicates that he was unauthorized.]] Sir, take it easy. I must say that I regret the fact that Mrs Joanna Banasiuk could not reach because of the fact that the point was actually suddenly appointed. Mr Mariusz Dzierżawski, on the other hand, will speak immediately. [[What right do you have at all? Please state on what basis you reject formal applications. This is a joke, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Right of the Republic, I would like to express my disappointment at the lack of a fair debate on this project. In the 21st century, science has no doubt that human life begins from the moment of conception, from the fusion of two cells. Who denies it is contrary to the basic principles of science. There's no ideology here, it's just biological facts, whether we like it or not, and no matter how many epithets we throw here. These are facts and we need to talk about facts. It is only after these facts have been stated that we can move on to further reflection. Further reflection must be based on ethical principles. Either it is thought that life is worth protecting, that it must be protected, that it is valuable, as the constitution says, or that it is not worth it and that it may be subject to our manipulations. Of course, there are people who think anyway, and yes, it's true, and at this level this discussion is going down. Of course, this is not a level of discussion about whether this is a human being since conception or not. So let's say that this is an ideological struggle, but only at the level of whether we are allowed to kill or not. The compromise was in force for 23 years, but we need to know that this compromise in 1993 was concluded after the commune period, after the tens of thousands, many tens of thousands of children were killed when abortion was simply treated as birth control. The nation came out of this system very much, so to speak, burdened. It was only life under such, say, normal conditions that gave us the opportunity to present certain information, certain data, and now we have the right to expect that the people are wiser, that people are wiser. and that you can set the bar of requirements a little higher. Legal conditions in this respect are clear. Of course, Poles, we don't like the law, because it's best that the law is some sort of ornament, isn't it? [[We Poles don't like law? Speak for yourself.]] [[PiS doesn't like the law.]] The law is clearly expressed and those who believe in the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal must also listen to its statement that it is clear that life has been protected since conception. Therefore, the acquis is that we must draw full conclusions from these consequences. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to discuss in detail, not to leave these issues behind. just to solve on the street. Fear is a bad advisor. We forgot that in May, June there were dozens of marches for life and family. These marches were like the antithesis of this black march. If there were 100,000 on this black march or on these many marches. People, of course, have the right to express their dissatisfaction. Everyone has the right, but we also have to remember that a few times more people who have supported life since conception marched in May and June, but that's what they didn't see. So that I would recommend some peace and distance here, so that we would discuss, not leave a case, let's say, to solve with some emotional action on the streets, etc. I hope, however, that this Parliament will find so much strength and courage that it will meet these facts that I have spoken of and will come to a new solution. You can charge things with this solution. From my point of view, the noble idea of the state, which, let's say, carried out and collected signatures, collided with some, let's say, different thinking of many others. There must be a new compromise that will respect life at a much higher level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u663	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants Mr Mariusz Dzierżawski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u664	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today she should present the project to Mrs. Joanna Banasiuk. That was the plan, the project was to introduce a woman. Unfortunately, she didn't get the opportunity. Notice that the Committee of Justice will meet at 3 p.m. 17, we received after hours. 12. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Faster than we do.]] [[Voice from the room: It's before we do. We'll be there at 3:00.]] And we have received no notice of this debate at all. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] The fact that the representatives of the applicants are here today, right now, in this room, is the result of the fact that I looked on the Internet. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Voice from the room: That's PiS.]] [[We already know that.]] [[Voice from the room: And this needs to be prepared.]] [[What's the PiS say?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've heard so much about respect for legislative and social initiatives. And what happens on this occasion, when during the session of the Parliament committee, the applicant has not even been given the opportunity to speak, it is simply a mockery. [[The social organization wasn't even allowed in the Sejm.]] If we cannot now also present the position of the committee as we would like, it is also a mockery, and it is not only of the representatives of the committee, it is a mockery of 0.5 million people who supported this project. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've heard many words here, how terrible is this project we're presenting. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] I was wondering... This project is short, on two pages. [[A single article may be sufficient.]] Each of you could easily get acquainted with this project, and you received seismic prints. What's so terrible about this project? I think it's an art. 3 Project: Every man has a natural right to life from the moment of conception. [[Women, too.]] Yeah, so do women. [[Exactly.]] Half the abortion victims are women torn apart in their mothers' wombs. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] [[What are you talking about? This is bullshit. You're talking about a 100-year-old situation, I think.]] I'm talking about that, my dear Mrs Fly... I imagined, however, that certain standards were in force in the Seym, especially after the Palikot party left this House. So, even if your political enemies have gagged the social side, maybe you'll let me speak. [[Applause]] Half the abortion victims are women. From Mr. Kaminski I heard words about progress and the darkness of the Middle Ages. I remember Mr. Kaminski a dozen years ago. I think he's changed his mind. [[Voice from the room: Just like the PiS.]] [[Not in this case. I've always been in favour of compromise.]] Turning to this progress and to the darkness of the Middle Ages: the progress in abortion is that 56 million abortions are being made every year around the world. This is the progress that many of you are dreaming of. This project refers, as I said, to fundamental matters. In fact, this dispute that is going on here is about the fundamentals of our civilization. Is the fundamental human right to life, or is the fundamental human right to kill others? [[Applause]] We say that this fundamental right is the right to live. No one has the right to kill another man. And these two pages, short, are just about that. These are two short pages, and they are the object of lies that would probably not fit in two volumes. They're accusing the project, they say he's condemning his mother to death. There are no grounds for these accusations. The project clearly states that in the event of a threat to the life of the mother... [[Direct threat.]] Yes, a direct threat. ...the doctor is not responsible for risky therapy, which may even lead to the death of the child. [[Or hers.]] This is the idea of this project: doctors are supposed to treat people, not kill people. [[And women, too.]] And yes, of course, women shouldn't kill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] [[Merciful!]] [[We just found out what the clou of this project is.]] Unfortunately, honourable P.O. Members, doctors are currently killing women... [[Disgraceful! Shame!]] 500 women a year, abortions kill in the wombs of mothers in Poland... [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] [[We protest!]] ...for state money. [[We protest against such words spoken from this pulpit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u665	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u666	Unfortunately, Polish governments are responsible for this. [[Voice from the room: Lying and rude.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these statistics can be checked. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] The last government report we have on Mr Kulesza concerns 2015. It says that 1040 children were legally killed in Polish hospitals. If you are interested in what kind of gender these children were, please make a statement to the Minister of Health. I think he's gonna answer that. [[Voice from the room: There is no such data.]] Ladies and gentlemen, 95% these death sentences on Polish children are executed because of suspicion of a disease or genetic defect. Under the Civic Platform, we were unable to find out from the Minister of Health exactly what the reasons were. Multiple interpellations and responses were such that it was not known. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] All of this can, of course, be verified - the content of these interpellations. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 1000 children are killed in Poland. Almost all because they're suspected of being sick. We don't even know what kind of disease. [[Oh!]] We believe the most common cause is the suspicion of Down syndrome. [[Well, really?]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Suspicious?]] Yeah, that's enough suspicion. Probably most of these children sentenced to death because of the suspicion of genetic defects are healthy children, but of course no one is verifying it. [[Oh, come on.]] Ms Ewa Kopacz served as Minister of Health. I haven't heard anything about any verification of those death sentences on the conceived children being carried out. [[I, of course, in correction mode.]] Perhaps you were just as careful to check it out as you were digging up the land in Smolensk. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Jesus, come down.]] [[You can't let words like that fall out of that podium.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Mr. Marshal, please respond.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand the truth is bothering you, but... [[Is this a political speech or a substantive speech?]] ... Just a few more words of truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u667	Dear Representative of the Legislative Initiative, I'm asking you not to deviate from the subject. [[Voice from the room: Reflection chess player.]] [[Get to the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u668	I'm sorry, Marshal, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u669	I'd like to ask you to stay calm, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u670	Marshal, I'll do my best. Unfortunately, my fellow Members make this difficult for me. [[Don't insult us, we won't make it difficult.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u671	And you, especially from the Civic Platform, please don't make this difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u672	So a few more words of truth promised. These eugenic abortions, which are carried out in Poland and are almost 1 000 of them, are carried out in late pregnancy, usually in the fifth or sixth month. [[That's not true.]] [[No, it's not. It's a lie.]] [[What are you saying?]] This can be seen, for example, from the NFZ reports, which give twice the number of government reports. It's that... [[We've noticed.]] [[But there aren't many pregnancies in these reports. You're lying.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm trying to stick to the subject, but it's hard for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u673	Please don't make this difficult. [[Voice from the room: Time to finish.]] [[Voice from the room: Time to finish, yes.]] [[Go ahead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u674	These late abortions are being performed on a massive scale... [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Fantasia.]] ...and you can learn about it from the NFZ reports. All you have to do is read these reports... [[With understanding.]] ...but that's what you need to want, you have to be interested. We have really tried very hard in recent years to get to the truth, even though the Ministry of Health consistently denied us this truth. These late abortions are performed in different ways, e.g. by dismembering, as can be learned from medical manuals. Of course, at a time when Mr. Neumann worked at the Ministry of Health, information on this matter could not be extracted, but it could be learned from the NFZ reports, as well as from the testimony of midwives forced to participate in abortions, and such cases were. [[Member Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Simply scandal.]] [[Are the obstetrics being interrogated right now?]] [[Dude...]] One of the methods used all the time, used and in the previous term, and now, is this late abortion by induction. [[Voice from the hall: It's a massacre, what he's saying.]] [[What's he saying?]] A few months ago, we found out what it looked like. In the hospital in Madaliński, a child was born, which was then abandoned to die. [[Did you report it to the D.A.'s office?]] That baby was dying for an hour. The case was described by the press. They took an interest in the case of gynecology and obstetrics consultants, and the patient's rights spokesperson took an interest. And what have we learned from their reports? Well, we've learned that everything is fine, that the procedures predict it so. Ladies and gentlemen! The situation that we are dealing with today is the organized killing of children in Polish hospitals. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: Hucpa.]] [[No, Mr. Marshal, please.]] [[Voice from the room: Organized?]] Yeah, it's organized by the Ministry of Health and paid by NFZ funds. [[Minister, do you hear me?]] [[Why don't you say something about putting women in jail, not cases that don't happen?]] Ma'am! If you think that killing children in Polish hospitals doesn't happen, then you haven't read the reports... [[Are you accusing Minister Radziwill?]] ...government in previous years. [[You have to read them with understanding.]] Ma'am, if I recall correctly, she was a member of the government. But it seems strange to me... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] ...that your official government documents don't read. [[Please read them with understanding next time.]] I encourage you to read these documents again. So those cases where living children come into the world and they're dumped to death... [[Have you ever heard of persistent therapy?]] ...according to the press reports, there are a few a year, but we're afraid there's a lot more. British and Norwegian data indicate that the live births of children due to abortion are between 10 and 15% in the case of late abortions. In Poland these abortions resulting in living birth are 100 or more, only that these cases are swept under the carpet. This project is intended to put an end to this shameful activity that is taking place in Polish hospitals. Perhaps that's why he's making such a big fuss. You're facing a great opportunity. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] I am now speaking mainly to the representatives of the Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: You have a chance.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no right.]] [[The voice from the room: But the chance is.]] This is my fifth legislative initiative. [[Voice from the room: And not the last.]] I have stood before you many times, talking about the right of children to live. I listened with great satisfaction to what you said in 2011, in 2013, 2015 and 2 weeks ago. [[They're over it.]] I was glad that Polish politicians understood that the law should be based on values. I was glad that, many times, from this speaker, the Members of the PiS quoted the words of the great Pope John Paul. II. I was glad. I was glad that these words were also close to me: The nation that kills its children is a nation without a future. I wish Poland had a future. I was glad that for the first time in many years, the majority of the Sejm advocated values and advocated life. It is really difficult for me to understand what happened today when Mr PiS is applying to reject this project without any discussion, and all Members of the PiS voting raise their hand for throwing out a project that gives every child the right to live. [[I don't believe it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I really can't understand this... [[Because it's too hard.]] ...but, ladies and gentlemen, I don't need to understand. Everyone's got mistakes in their lives. The point is that we can learn from these mistakes. We can always change our ways for the better. I hope that today, too, you will be in favour of life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u675	Thank you very much to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Objection, correction.]] Please, Mr Michał Kaminski, European Democrats, has a voice for correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u676	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm in corrigendum mode. Mr President was kind to say that I changed my mind about compromises. I haven't changed my mind. Exactly a dozen years ago, twenty years ago, when he was passed, I was behind him - I was not in that role in this House at the time - and I still did not change my mind. Mr President, in every body - don't blame me, because I am not the one laying this project down for you today, although I will vote to reject it - it is the Bolsheviks who decide not to do so. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I in this House am a minshevik, so blame the Bolsheviks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u677	Madam, excuse me, in what way? [[With a corrigendum.]] But you didn't say anything. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But she was mentioned by name.]] Madame, you may, if any, take the floor in the form of a formal proposal. [[He used her name twice.]] [[Please?]] Alternatively, in the formal application procedure, you may take the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u678	Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you for your good advice, Members. Mr. Marshal! I would like to make a formal request to change the procedure under Article. 184. I'll justify my conclusion. There were various words in this House from this speaker. Those who have been in this House for many years know that there have been different stories, more or less parliamentary statements. We also know that when there was someone who represented the representatives of applicants, especially when it was a citizens' project, it was usually the House that allowed for more. I have a question: Can we therefore allow total disrespect not only for this House but also for Polish women? Can we allow the lack of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Respect... [[Voice from the Chamber: What is your point?]] ...calling doctors murderers, and midwives without freedom... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...who only follow these instructions... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u679	Thank you, Member. [[Voice from the courtroom: Time, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u680	Can anyone respond to these hard words?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u681	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u682	Is anybody... [[The Vice Marshal is shutting down the microphone. Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...tonight he can respond to those heavy words, Mr. Marshal, that fall from this podium?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u683	Okay, thank you, Member. You're welcome to leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u684	Excuse me, formal motion, two minutes. [[There's two minutes for applications.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u685	You're welcome to leave the podium. This is not a formal proposal, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u686	You've agreed to allow me to make a formal motion. You said yes. I have a reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u687	As far as I know, you were a marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u688	You said yes. I have a reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u689	Yeah, but it's not a formal conclusion. There's no such thing as asking for a change of procedure. [[Why not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u690	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u691	You should know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u692	I, Mr. Marshal, would you please... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I have 40 seconds left to correct...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u693	Please, in the procedure of correcting Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a communication from the doctors of gynecologists who write to us and listen to the lies that the rapporteur had just passed on. I'd like to say... [[What's this? Any appearances?]] [[Voice from the room: But what is it?]] This is the corrigendum of the lies that fell from this pulpit. [[Voice from the room: There is no such conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no one will perform an abortion on suspicion of a genetic defect. The suspicion is always verified by invasive testing, amniopunity... [[Are you making statements?]] ...that's taking amniotic fluid and assessing fetal karyotype. 100% I'm sure. I'd like to pass this on to doctors of gynecologists who can't listen to those lies that just fell from that podium. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u695	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill in the voting block. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What about the questions?]] [[Voice from the room: Questions!]] That's the end of it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] consideration of agenda items scheduled for 5 October this year [[Voice from the room: Questions!]] [[Let's all go, we'll block him! What does that mean? Where are the questions?]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 182. This is my competence, my prerogative, whether I allow questions or not. [[Shame on you, Marshal!]] The House of Members of the Platform and Modernity are making a circus out of this House. I won't tolerate this circus anymore. [[What are you afraid to hear?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u696	There are big and small wars. These big ones change the world, these little people. In early September this year. In Włocławek Penitentiary, the exhibition was officially opened in Włocławek. The Nazi death camp Auschwitz-Birkenau. The exhibition was created thanks to the cooperation of the Regional Director of Prison Service in Bydgoszcz colonel. Jack Guest and Dr. Piotr Cywiński, director of the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum. It is worth noting that the exhibition in the framework of cultural and educational activities was prepared by the settlers of the Penal Institute in Włocławek. The opening of the exhibition was accompanied by numerous speeches, including a lecture by Prof. Dr. Hab. Witold Stankowski. The exhibition consists of several parts. The first is the passage through a tunnel filled with photogrammats from the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, passing into the structure of a cattle wagon which was transported to the camp. The main part of the exhibition is a camp barracks and an appeal square with barbed wire. The impressions are heightened by the sounds of the camp: the screams of the oppressors, barking dogs at people, crying children and silent prayers of prisoners. The section with afishes, which contains information about the history of the camp, experiments carried out by Nazi scientists and everyday life in the camp, brings millions of innocently murdered people into a traumatic world during World War II. The recreated gas chamber, above which the inscription is written: the bath is very sad, reminding that no one came out alive. The employees of the Penal Institute in Włocławek made sure that the exhibition was enriched with multimedia, thanks to which viewers can especially touch the shocking realities that prevailed in the camp. For organizing the exhibition, congratulations are due to the director of the Penal Institute in Włocławek colonel. Mark Opperman, as well as the educators who supervised the project. The uniqueness of the exhibition is due to the fact that it was prepared by prisoners in prison. Convicts voluntarily volunteered to perform design elements. Many of them were impressed by this work. Reliving the tragedy of that time, during the reconstruction of camp events, led the prisoners to analyze their own life and moral reflection... Initiating similar undertakings is absolutely necessary and desirable, because the worst prison of people is a closed and hardened heart, and the greatest evil is despair.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-sejm-27-2.u697	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 10. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 18]]
