ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u1	Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, there was a terrorist attack at Istanbul Airport yesterday, which killed 36 people and nearly 150 of them were injured. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the victims of this attack. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. [[It's a formal matter.]] Yes, hello, Senator? [[Can I get out of here?]] Whatever...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! May I have a request for your marshal? It has come to our attention that a few hours ago you died editor Janina Paradowska, a prominent journalist, one of the greatest journalists, rewarded with many awards. Would the marshal be willing to ask the Senate to honor her memory with a moment of silence?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u3	There you go, Mr. Senator, you can do it, and we'll do it. Of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago, you suddenly left the editor Janina Paradowska, a graduate of the Jagiellonian University, a graduate of the Faculty of Journalism at the University of Warsaw, a person who has worked since 1991 as an outstanding political commentator, independent, a person who loved Poland, as we all have. Ladies and gentlemen, the High House, to honor her death with a moment of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u5	Thank you very much. Thank you, High Izbo, and thank you, Senator. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Education System Act and some other laws, Senate prints No 215 and 215 A and consider it as item four of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of a Doctor and a Dentist, and the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsman. The text of the Act is contained in print 201 and the committee report In print No 201 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Health, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was honoured to present a report on the proceedings of the 3 Joint Committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which took place on 23 June 2016. The report is contained in print No 201 A, and the proceededed act is in Senate printing No 201. It is a law on the amendment of the Law of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. The law was adopted by the committees, except that one amendment had been tabled by Senator Severinski, an amendment concerning the article. 360, and a minority request has also been filed. Ladies and gentlemen, a broad debate took place at the joint committee meeting. It was pointed out that... the representatives of the Ministry, the Ministry of Justice, were also representatives of the Ministry of Health. They pointed out that the purpose of this revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws was to increase transparency, transparency and transparency of the criminal process. The point is to reduce the number of exemptions to the transparency of the criminal trial. All of this is based on the quoted constitutional record, which concerns the constitutional principle of transparency. It's a matter of art. 45 constitutions. The same article. The 45th Constitution is, in fact, cited in the explanatory memorandum to the bill presented, paragraph. Two, but I think you have to pay attention to your mouth. 1, which establishes the conjunction between disclosure and justice: the trial is open and just. It can be read in such a way that if there is transparency, it is greater justice. Of course, there are situations that, even under this law, allow disclosure to be excluded. It's just that there shouldn't be too many exemptions. Very often, with regard to art. 45 constitutions have been cited, which refers to exclusion on grounds of important private interest. The parties referred to this condition of important private interest too often, in the view of the applicants, It was often the defendant's side. To keep the criminal trial secret so that it can be classified. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if in the Constitution, in the paragraph. 2, there are 5 situations that make it possible to exclude the transparency of criminal proceedings, the criminal trial, and we already have four situations in the ordinary law. Namely, the exclusion of disclosure may occur, of course, because of morality, and this is repeated in the ordinary law, because of the security of the state, and this is repeated also because of public order. But we still have in the Constitution a provision: "Because of the protection of private life" and this provision is not transferred to the ordinary law. However, there is also a transfer, which I have already mentioned here: because of another important private interest. From the information we received from the Minister of Justice, it appeared that this very reason, which is another important private interest, was often used to conceal the proceedings, the criminal process. And when it comes to protecting private life, it hasn't been moved either... It must therefore be concluded that this often invoked reason should be treated restrictively, namely, primarily in situations where the private life of the parties is at risk, i.e. when the victim or the witness or other person concerned by the criminal proceedings may be harmed. So that, as far as transparency is concerned, this transparency, as I said, consists of, of course, the institution of transparency of the criminal process. In addition to the institutions for the transparency of the criminal process, it is of course very important because of transparency. also the participation of the media. In principle, there could be a sign of equality between disclosure and the participation of the media. Nevertheless, there are situations where the criminal process is public, but there is no participation of the media. This is in a situation where the parties' reports or statements of the parties could simply... when the parties could therefore suffer injury. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 357, which is being introduced here, is that the court may allow representatives of the mass media, despite the transparency of the trial, to be expelled in certain situations. I pay attention to what is the essence of the current change. In the current records, there is no longer any such indication as the following: representatives of the media cannot participate in the process if it has been deleted, the important interest of the participant in the proceedings is opposed to it. This condition was very widely used, and therefore there is no record that an important interest of the party to the proceedings is against it. There is no such freedom as to the participation of representatives of the media. If earlier in §1 Article. 181 there was a record that the court could allow it, but now we have a record: the court permits it. And, as I said, the record of this objection has been deleted as regards the important interest of the participant in the proceedings. Applicants point out that this important interest of the participant in the proceedings is reflected in the institution of secrecy of the criminal process. If the criminal process is classified, there is no media in the room, there is no recording of sound, there is no recording of images, there is no recording of what is happening in the criminal process. Hence, it seems that the institution of secrecy is sufficient that the interests of the participant in the proceedings... This condition is included in this. The current provisions mention that a social factor will be easier to participate in the proceedings. As far as the transparency of the procedure is concerned, and on this basis these changes are based, it is obvious that the participation of the social factor must be ensured. All the situations with regard to the participation of the social factor are described in Article. 90. The following changes have taken place here. In so far as in the current law, Article. 90 k.p.k. It is noted that a representative of a social organisation may submit a participation in the proceedings until the commencement of the judicial course, but it is now proposed that participation in the proceedings may be notified by the social organisation. It can be concluded that such participation can be reported at any stage. While it has been said earlier in this provision that this participation can be reported by the social side when there is a need to protect the social interest or an important individual interest, we are now deleting the word "important." He can just report... The contribution of the social factor has been very prominent in this amendment. This participation of the social factor will now be mandatory, not arbitrary so far. Representatives of social organizations have the right... It's mandatory, it's a duty. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 90 we have added 3 paragraphs, §4, 5 and 6 of which previously in the article. 90 wasn't there. They provide for situations where, due to the order of procedure, the harmonious course of the criminal trial can be such that the court reduces the number of representatives of social organisations or arranges their participation in some way. It cannot therefore be alleged that this obligation of participation of a social representative may prevent a court from carrying out a trial. So that these 3 are certainly very important elements guaranteeing transparency, as referred to in Article. 45 constitutions, i.e. restrictions on the exclusion of disclosure, the participation of the media or the compulsory participation of the social factor. There is also information that, after receipt of the mail, i.e. the notification of the trial, the attorney, attorney, legal counsel, but it may be a representative, the person authorised to receive the mail may collect the mail on the basis of a postal proxy. These are the changes. Of course, there was also extensive discussion about the law on the pursuit of the profession of doctor and dentist. This is a change that corresponds, correlates with the change in the patient's and patient's rights law. This is a situation such as that of the applicant that secrecy was very often abused after the patient's death, abused, for example. about a situation where you couldn't... It often made it difficult to investigate the truth, to what was the cause of the patient's death, whether the cause was medical errors or other reasons. In the current provision of the article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a is introduced with respect to medical confidentiality such that, after the patient's death, this mystery may be disclosed if requested by loved ones. Closest persons in accordance with the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson, in its Article. Point 1 (2) is the spouse, relative or relative to the second degree in the straight line of the statutory representative. So that at the request of loved ones, this secret may be excluded to the extent that a loved one points out. There's also a record in the article. 3a, who says that at the request of a loved one may simply... The point is that another loved one may object to the disclosure of this medical confidentiality. And it looks like, even if many loved ones wanted to declassify this knowledge, expose the medical confidentiality, it would be enough for one close person to object, and the doctor's secret would of course not be revealed. In fact, I should return for a moment to K.P.K., to Art. 360. I was talking about art. 360, but in the context of enumeratively listed situations where the transparency of the criminal trial may be excluded. In this article. 360 has been added §2, which states that all those situations where the court may exclude the disclosure of the case, i.e. those situations which arise from the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions, and even at the request of a person who has applied for prosecution... All these situations which exclude disclosure may not be taken into account, because in §2 we have this provision: if the prosecutor objects to the exclusion of disclosure, the hearing takes place openly. This is where you give the D.A. power, the ability to object. And what does that tell you? What were the reasons behind this? It is pointed out that applicants indicate that there is low support for the judiciary in society, that it is at 25%. In addition, a prosecutor is referred to in that role, which is provided for in paragraph 2, as a spokesman for the rule of law. The prosecutor is also taking part in this trial, and as one of those institutions that are taking part in it, one of the parties that are taking part in the trial, just for the sake of the trial, so that these situations of secrecy are as little as possible... Of course, then the prosecutor can speak with such a voice. I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of Senator Sewerinski. He wants to make sure that when it comes to the law of the D.A., which I almost told you about earlier... So there's an opportunity to challenge this prosecutor's right in terms of crimes that are dealt with in a prosecution application. Well, this is a special crime group, according to the article. 12 criminal codes which are prosecuted only at the request of the person who so requested, at the request of the victim. Of course, the professor proposed in his amendment that in such a situation - No, it could affect, for example. rape opportunities, etc. The people who... The point is that people who are not directly connected with the crime should not suffer damage so that it does not affect the whole circle of people who may be involved in the situation. That's it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u7	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Health, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A minority has filed a motion to reject the bill because it does not agree with the provisions contained in the submission. Let me say this briefly, because there will be questions, there will be a debate, I think it is extensive. But I would now like to state the basic reasons behind the minority's motion to reject the bill. Namely, we cannot agree with ignoring authorities once again in the area of justice, i.e. the Supreme Court, the National Council of Judicial Affairs, legal corporations and... In this situation, we are also dealing with the veto of doctors, the General Medical Council, which concerns the violation of medical confidentiality and the General Data Protection Officer, who joins in with the strong disapproval of doctors of the changes discussed here. The Minister of Health also objected to this law in the context of the amendment of the law. Because there's an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Doctors and Dentist Doctors, and medical confidentiality. And these are the fundamental issues that have caused absolutely no agreement here because the Constitution is also being violated. The Constitution is violated as regards the issue of transparency, and I refer to the article. 105 constitutions. And briefly, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what we absolutely cannot agree to. We can't agree to a change of art. 90 §3 as regards the alleged elimination of the arbitraryness of the court in allowing a representative of the social organisation to participate in the case. 'Cause we're kind of gonna ask... The Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen, says that they are not known. And maybe the Minister will explain it to us. Empirical studies that would verify whether the reality is that this principle of arbitrariness is being abused and the existing rules do not work. There's no such thing as research. The Supreme Court did not notice that such studies were, and concluded that these solutions were at least premature. But it is, ladies and gentlemen, also about the efficiency of the proceedings, we are still fighting for the efficiency of the proceedings. And here is the situation that a representative of social organisations will, of course, have the right to participate in the rights of the party, with the possibility to submit any proposals, etc., which is completely understandable, but in addition, he will still have the right in the last word, so to speak as part of the votes of the parties. And this, ladies and gentlemen, has so far not been and it seems that there is no need for it to be, because it is enough to articulate its position in the course of the proceedings. Come on... Of course, I'm saying here, yes, password-wise, briefly. Another alleged arbitrariness of the court, which is to be amended by the article. 357 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is, I ask you, a supposedly unreasonable obstacle to media representatives from perpetuating criminal proceedings. We don't have any research either, and we know And that concludes the Supreme Court. The fact that judges and prosecutors, who are press spokespersons, are the most important problems in cooperation with the media shows the ignorance of law and lack of integrity, lack of journalistic integrity. In fact, there are no requirements for being a journalist. Anyone who writes an article, even on a blog It's true, isn't it? Or to the media, he could be a journalist. What about ethics? He asks the Supreme Court. We believe that the rights must absolutely be guaranteed, but also the rights of the accused, because here the defendant is excluded from being able to present his position to the media. Another issue, which is already completely curial in our view, concerns the decision to exclude the transparency of the hearing. In the Seym's submission, it was possible to appeal, to file a complaint with the court for a non-disclosure order. And what happened? This issue of complaint was the subject of all the opinions we have. We do not have an up-to-date opinion on the situation that arose in the Seym, and there was a completely curiosity situation, ladies and gentlemen, a really curiosal situation... The court was deprived at the judicial stage of the possibility to decide on the conduct of proceedings in this particular case, to exclude disclosure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that's a serious idea. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the court is no longer hosting the trial! Not only the court of meriti, the judge, because there is also no possibility of a possible appeal, according to the submission of the Seym. And it was criticized, too. That it extends the proceedings, that the court decides. Ladies and gentlemen, and hence the amendment that Mr Gogacz, Professor Sewerinski, spoke of. He wanted to save the situation and said that whoever filed a request for prosecution could file a complaint in such a situation. But, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't save the day. Why? Because, for example, You don't have to file a complaint against a victim when you rape him because he's an ex officio. Therefore, I ask you, if the victim has applied for exclusion of disclosure and the application has been accepted by the court and the prosecutor has filed a veto which becomes binding, then that person The raped one. It will be recorded and shown in the light of the media, contrary to the decision of the court, without any possibility of verification. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a completely incomprehensible situation! I don't know if it's even expected, because Professor Seweryński wanted to save the situation, but he didn't see it coming. And the question I mentioned about medical confidentiality. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very broad view of the Supreme Court, which speaks of doubts about changes, and I quote: medical errors. After all, designers do not see existing legal options that allow the patient's loved ones to obtain medical information after the patient's death and therefore propose that a person close to the patient should be the subject of this mystery after the patient's death. And there is a very broad position of the Bureau of the Chief Medical Council, as well as a general inspector for personal data. Ladies and gentlemen, these are fundamental human rights, constitutional rights, a fair right of defence, to public disclosure. But objective. Because if there's transparency, then someone who comes to the trial listens to everything. He also listens to the defendant's explanation. And here, ladies and gentlemen, all you have to do is listen to witnesses, preferably accusations. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there's something wrong here. I'm saying it so, so gently. Therefore, for these reasons, which I am presenting only briefly, consistently and decisively, we will oppose this law that violates fundamental human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute. - One minute. - Okay. Questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of you like to ask questions? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u10	Question for the Senator of the majority. Tell me, in the light of art. 360 in the proposed version of the prosecutor in all situations will be able to act against excluded disclosure, including in the case of sexual offences? [[To whom is that a question?]] [[To the rapporteur of the majority.]] To the rapporteur of the majority. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u11	Mr. Marshal, Art. 360 k.p.k. In fact, it has been amended in such a way that an paragraph has been added which was not before, namely, the paragraph in which it is referred that if the prosecutor objects to the exclusion of disclosure, the hearing takes place openly. This must be understood as referring to all the situations referred to in paragraph 1. At the stage of work in the Sejm an application was submitted It was more widely formulated. As regards the possibility of appealing the prosecutor's decision against all such situations, as I recall, and the Senate has tabled an amendment by Senator Sewerinski, which concerns the situation relating to the application for prosecution, namely that group of offences mentioned here just now. So that's how I understand it, it's probably from some kind of legal logic. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u13	The question is addressed to the rapporteur and the marshal. Maybe in reverse. Don't you think that, in the light of the changes in the codes which have been initiated by the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, this change is a consequence of the over-indulgence of the prosecution's case? And the second question, concerning the participation of social organisations, which, according to the majority of committees, including the rapporteur, is intended to give rise to greater transparency in the process. Don't you think that the right to appear on a case in the case of social organisations, even if limited to organisations that do, so to speak, routinely protecting human rights or having it in their statutes, their right to be on an equal footing At least in the criminal trial what is the accused or defender excessive? This can even lead to a specific authorage of these organizations. Doesn't that introduce... Let me get this straight. What I'm about to say is, of course, excessive. You're introducing a third party in the proceedings. It is not necessarily a requirement that the court must take this into account. Don't you think... Couldn't you, though? Without denying the need for transparency, transparency and transparency of the process, as you mentioned To limit the participation of these organisations, but without special rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u14	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u15	I think that's what we need to look at in the context of this constitutional principle, which is transparency. In order for the principle of transparency of the process to be fulfilled, as I said before, and I do not want to repeat all this anymore, we simply need to use instruments such as those of the senator. Isn't there an overdosing of the prosecution's case? It seems that information about the fact that the authority of the judiciary in Poland, however, is less than expected, indicates even that 25% of society is positive about the activity of the judiciary. In addition, an indication of the fact that we are the prosecutor in charge of the rule of law and all those functions that would result from this... It doesn't seem that the prosecutor who gets such powers is acting against some logic that involves guaranteeing transparency. Now it's social organizations. The fact that obligation is introduced in place of arbitraryness must be something. As I understand it, the applicants relied on the fact that too often the court decided that social organisations did not participate, smaller or larger, in the criminal trial. And I think that's the way it's supposed to be. And about that... This article has been greatly expanded. If you've ever had an article before. 90 k.p.k. These were three short paragraphs, short in a visual sense, but also contentual, I think, and now we have six paragraphs. The first three are improved in the sense that we introduce obligation. In addition, it also added § 4, 5 and 6, which provide for different situations, such that the court in principle... The court has the right to decide precisely that, due to order or the possibility to proceed, to conduct a trial within certain time limits of this process, it can simply decide whether social organisations will then be present in more or less numbers. In particular, §6 talks about this. So that it's literally not decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u16	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u17	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Senator! I'm talking about the one that's been added to the paragraph 6. I would like to ask you about the situation that I believe is unilaterally regulated here. Namely, organizations which will be allowed to appear in the case may be there intending to notify the court to the defendant or against the accused. And when the number of these organizations is large, the court can, yes, limit the number of representatives, but only asks one page. Namely, he then calls the prosecutor and the accused, but no longer the defender, in order to identify no more than 2 representatives of social organizations. Why is that? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask you about the arguments made by the General Medical Council against the breach of medical confidentiality. Could you tell us what the arguments were, and what was the course of the debate in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u18	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u19	Mr. Senator, as far as the medical side's arguments are concerned, it's basically from my information and from what I've observed, and I've been attending a meeting of three joint committees... There was a statement that the Ministry of Health opposed the amendment of the article. 40 Act on the pursuit of the profession of doctor and dentist. And as far as the General Medical Council is concerned, I don't recall such arguments being made there. I can simply give the atmosphere of the meeting of the 3 joint committees and draw attention to the very reasons I have already mentioned. It was about explaining the case, knowing the truth about death, if there was a suspicion that there was a medical error. To ensure that this prohibition, the impossibility of declassified medical confidentiality, does not cause such a situation that the loved ones listed here cannot have knowledge of the actual cause of death of the patient. And what I said earlier, that loved ones can make such a motion under the present law. And as for other loved ones as well... Even one person close, even though many loved ones would be in favour of decryption, may object to it and, according to these records, the voice of the loved one who opposes it will be decided. That's just the way it is. As far as social organizations are concerned... You know, these are already such detailed questions, what it looks like during the trial... I think that's the question we're going to pass on to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u20	Senator Dobrzyński. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Zientarski. Mr. Senator, in your speech, you used your statement as to non-constitutional... I, of course, do not agree with your argument that the bill under review is incompatible with the Constitution, and I regard it as a political statement on this matter, which, of course, you have the right to do, but I would ask you to make a specific statement on this subject, which is a violation of the Constitution, or which provisions of the Act under review violate the Constitution, so that you can clarify it more clearly. You mentioned it a little bit, but you didn't justify your thesis. I understand that this is a thesis that will apply to the Civic Platform club, but from my point of view, it's not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u22	Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u23	Senator, I am trying to weigh my words and if I speak, I am speaking on matters of my education and interest, and I am a constitutionalist and a long-standing lawyer, with over 20 years of experience, after a judge's exam, counsellor's exam, attorney's exam, so that I have some experience, also practical, not only theoretical, and I know what I'm saying. I'm pleading, please look at the Supreme Court's opinion... That's where we're talking about art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution, which provides that the exclusion of the disclosure of the hearing may take place on the grounds of morality, state security, public order and the protection of the private life of the parties or other important interests. And it's the court that hosts the court, the prosecutor's in pretrial proceedings, that's clear. But in court, it's up to the court to decide. And, as I explained, in the Seym's submission, it was possible for the prosecutor to challenge the publicity of the prosecutor, but also the possibility to file a complaint, i.e. the result would not be decided by the ruling court, but, nevertheless, the court, in the context of a complaint. That was the case, and it was eliminated, which is exactly what it was about, among other things. Speaking in a question, Marshal Borusewicz, sexual crimes have not been excluded... Therefore, the court at a time when, due to the protection of the victim, but also the Supreme Court of the accused in certain cases, because there are different situations, I know this from practice, there were many rape charges where there were valid acquittals, where in fact... And here we have the situation that the prosecutor's opposition, which is his will, causes annihilation, which is a change in the decision of the court. And that's what a prosecutor's hegemony is about as a party to a court where a party is more important than a court. So far this has not happened in any system, even in our post-war system, in socialist times; I repeat: this has not happened. That's why I'm so surprised. And once again, I would like to stress that the opinions that I invoke did not take into account this situation, because they were not... They were created for the purpose of the Parliamentary presentation, and there was a possibility of complaint. [[Mr. Marshal, just a little bit longer. Counselor, Senator...]] Yes? [[I understand that your statement is based on the Supreme Court's opinion, yes? Because you were quoting, Mr. Senator.]] I mean, the Supreme Court noticed and said, "Doubt." I call it a constitutional violation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u24	Thank you very much. [[Everything is questionable. If you don't doubt it, you're dead.]] [[The option of the case...]] Mr. Senator Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Gogach. I am very positive about the statutory legitimacy of participation in the judicial proceedings of non-governmental organisations, social organisations. Does the senator share that opinion as well? I ask, because at the moment, even against the opposition of the parties in the pending proceedings before the court, the social organization has the right to participate, if that is the case with the interests of justice. Please state whether, in your view, this is a solution and those adopted regulations which would exclude the possibility of involving social organisations only and only if the statutes of such an organisation were not in line with the subject matter of judicial proceedings that are taking place... Well, for example, if it were an environmental organisation, and the procedure was to concern an irregularity in the arms trade, then the involvement of this organisation, so to speak, would, from the obvious point of view, be excluded. How do you assess this solution? As I judge them very positively, I view them as increasing transparency, transparency and public access to ongoing proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u26	Well, of course, it's a rhetorical question, and I'm very positive about that. However, please note once again the differences between paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and the relevant provisions of the amendment. In the current legal state, the participation of the social organisation could have been reported until the beginning, and now we are removing the time factor, so that now at every stage of the proceeding such an organisation can simply take part... Previously, it had to be a representative of the organization, and now it's just an organization in corporate that can report its participation. This factor has also been eliminated, which has been assessed as an important individual interest. There's no more so-called. important interest It's just business. And, of course, there's no need to point out a representative to these cases anymore. So that everything that's written... As far as the joint committees are concerned, there were no questions, or at least I don't recall any questions being asked. And it seems to me that transparency, transparency, should a priori assume that social factors should be allowed. As I understand it, the extension of these records is aimed at implementing the constitutional principles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u28	Mr. Marshal, a question for Senator Ziientarski, the rapporteur of the minority. The rapporteur raised the question of excluding transparency. And I'd like to... This applies to Article. 360, I think, §4 and neighboring. In the opinion of the rapporteur's senator, as well as the applicant minority, has the institution excluded the transparency of the proceedings been abused? Is there evidence in this case? Some empirical evidence or scientific research or analysis Which would prove precisely that the exclusion of disclosure of conduct is being abused? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u29	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u30	I'll say I haven't heard. I haven't read such articles, I haven't seen such studies. I would also like to say that the Supreme Court, in its extensive analysis, pointed to this issue and stated that there are no empirical studies that would say that there is an abuse of the exclusion of the transparency of the hearing. It is therefore appropriate to assume that this institution has acted correctly that the courts have used that institution properly. I also do not know the opinions of relevant organisations, such as: They protect the patient's interests... There's an organization. I don't know any organizations that would be like I said. It's known for its long-term operations... Right now, ladies and gentlemen, a few people can set up an organization and present an appeal. I'm talking about serious organisations that haven't reported a problem with the fact that an institution for the exclusion of disclosure is being abused. There is no such study, hence the surprise, also of the Supreme Court, that changes are made to this institution, since it works properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u32	Mr Marshal, I will ask the rapporteur of the majority at all about the matter of transparency, but in particular about §4, in which the court allows the representative of the organisation to appear in a case despite the lack of agreement of the parties. And, attention, my question is: are we in agreement... do we know how to define a provision that says that the court allows a representative of a social organisation to appear in a case despite the lack of consent of the parties, if it is in the interest of justice? Which means perhaps for the first time introduced in the Act The interests of the justice system? By the concept of "interest in justice," I mean "interest in justice," e.g. that the costs are greater or lower. How is this to be understood, Senator rapporteur? It's the justice business. And where is the speech, e.g. about the interests of protecting morality, protecting the privacy of life, etc.?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u33	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u34	Mr. Senator, it seems that in this case... As far as other provisions are concerned, whether or not the court is restricted in its activities and in its independence, independence, e.g. From the D.A.'s office, there's a record here, which is most appropriate, because it allows the court If the court considers it appropriate to obtain further information or other information To turn to a social organisation. So it seems that the decision is left to the court. If the court considers it so, given the objective truth of the judgment... That's how I understand it. So it seems that this is a right that is simply due to the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u35	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u36	I didn't say... I'm gonna ask you to tell me. I have no objection to the laws of the court against him ruling either way, but do you not think that the basis of this decision, the interest of justice, the participation of these organizations... Isn't it going to turn the process into a rally?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u37	No. I think the court will see to it that it is not so, and it will certainly sort out this new situation of witnesses, parties or social organizations that are being called upon to take part in this process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u39	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Articles on the possibility of deletion are also changing. This is, in my opinion, a rather serious change. In so far as the parties were able to bring an appeal because of shortcomings or other relevant circumstances affecting the content of the judgment, it was always a rule that the appeal could not be brought solely because of the disproportionateness of the penalty. As for this, each of us can have an opinion, completely subjective. However, it turns out that this restriction is abolished in the case of the Attorney General and at the same time the Minister of Justice in cases of crimes, i.e. crimes that have been punishable by punishment for 3 years of imprisonment upwards. This is a dangerous provision from my point of view, because it undermines trust in the court. That's why you set up some finer forks for the most dangerous actions to leave the court an assessment in this case. But here it turns out that the Attorney General is only on the grounds that he doesn't like the punishment. He considers it to be disproportionate, and he will be able to bring in the cassation. How was that justified at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u40	Senator, we didn't talk about this at the committee meeting. It seems appropriate that, in connection with the uniqueness of certain events such as crimes, due to the large social resonance associated with such an act, the Attorney General should be equipped with such an instrument. But, like I said, we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u41	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziebra. Welcome, Minister. Welcome to the Undersecretary of State, Mr. Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the government in the present case, I can only express a positive assessment of the proposed changes, which came from the initiative of the Polish Parliament, and were, as far as I am aware, the result of the involvement of social organizations, which, having had bad experience with Polish courts in respect of the principles of transparency, transparency of proceedings, and thus an element which is essential to the control of the third authority... The courts are also the authority, and the control of this authority is and should be the principle, which the state, through appropriate regulations, allows, a principle which should be realistic, especially in matters of great social emotions, in matters which cause a large public discussion. Unfortunately, contrary to the views I have heard here, it is not that this constitutional principle of transparency of proceedings was guarded by the courts in the course of their proceedings. There have been many cases where the parties or representatives of social organisations complained about too frequent a reduction in the value of the transparency of judicial proceedings, i.e. the possibility of controlling the action of the court in matters of social importance. Hence, as I understand it, the initiative of one of the social organisations came out to change this situation. Since we stand in the position that in a rule of law, in a democratic state, all the authorities are acting openly, the legislative authority usually works on cameras and you are not afraid of these cameras, the executive authority also makes decisions and is judged by the public, appears in the media and explains its behaviour also in the High House, in both Chambers of the Polish Parliament, I do not believe that there is any basis for special treatment of the third power, which has really huge powers and is deeply interfering in the sphere of freedom, privacy and civil rights, so that it remains out of control, and this control is arbitraryly limited by very arbitrary decisions of the court. Therefore, the proposed solutions, which remain in this spirit of citizenship, can be said, including the Scandinavian spirit of transparency of the state, because the state is also acting justice, are in our view, in our view, in the assessment of the government and mine, as the minister of justice, are fully justified. Let us not be afraid of the media, let us not be afraid of transparency, let us not be afraid that the public will also judge us as the power of the Republic, whether it be the first power, the second power or the third power. We too should and have the right to look at our hands, and we should look at the citizens of the Republic, to whom we report and for whom we are called to serve, to each of these authorities, to give the opportunity to control our actions, decisions, actions and conditions on which these decisions are based. This also applies to courts. As regards the introduction of some solutions, there have been some comments, doubts and some, if you don't mind, I will refer to them. Firstly, I would like to point out that leaving the courts with a final assessment of the possibility of allowing the social organisation to participate in proceedings to control the conduct and take a stand in the final votes on the basis of a condition of the interest of justice is not a novelty. This is the solution that works today, it worked yesterday, it's been in operation for many years, and it's never had any controversy. We're not making any changes here. We leave the decision to the court, even if both parties in the proceedings oppose such a decision. The difference is that we introduce a kind of mandatory decision of the court, enabling the social representative to participate in the proceedings, especially if one of the parties to the procedure approves such a request, unless the statutory objectives of the organisation oppose it, i.e. they are not related to the essence of the justice system. This is an obvious step towards citizenship, i.e. increasing citizens' participation in the exercise of third power by controlling this third power. Let us remember that when we reach for public opinion polls, it will turn out that unfortunately, what we can all suffer from, the third power rejoices. If you can use the word "comfort" here, it's probably a little inconclusive to say "worried" about a very low level of social trust. Therefore, involving the social factor, involving citizens who want to participate and look at the hands of power, the third power, in our view, is a legitimate requirement. This was also notified by the representatives And it is very strongly supported by Mr.Paul Kukiz, who does not seem to have a representation in the Senate, but regardless of the fact that it is an opposition political formation, we have found this proposal to be legitimate and worthy of support, coming out of the very premises that I have just spoken of here. As regards the powers of the prosecutor, providing him with the possibility of co-decision, bringing him into the process of making the hearing public, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the prosecutor is, by virtue of his statutory duties, the authority of the State responsible for upholding and ensuring the rule of law as such. It is the authority of the State obliged to represent not only the voice of the accused, but also the public interest, the social interest. That's different from a plaintiff's case. And that's why we didn't equip the prosecutor with powers that would allow him to effectively lead to a secret hearing in a situation where he wanted to hide something from the public, i.e. the possibility of submitting a binding court's request for secrecy when it would be in the interest of the prosecutor to prevent the public, the citizens, the review of his decision as a prosecutor and, so to speak, the perpetrators of the proceedings. But we only gave him authority, so to speak, in the second direction, the possibility of opposing the situation in which the court, in the judgment of the prosecutor, unwarrantedly conceals from the public the course of the proceedings against the citizens. So this is a breach of transparency, which is a constitutional principle, to protect this constitutional principle, not to limit it to citizens. This is how we meet citizens' expectations, not the other way around. Those arguments I've heard here would have been fully justified if we had equipped the prosecutor with some power to render the court confidential against the will of the court. But in this respect, the D.A.'s powers are zero. He has no such authority. It can only take action against public interest, public interest, citizens' interest and social interest. Now, I'm going to move on to the medical confidentiality issues. I, of course, understand the discussion on this subject, and may well be due to the sincere intentions of the doubts that some representatives of the environment, especially of the medical community, raise. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are often due to mass coverage of media witnesses. You can say: indirect witnesses, because we do not participate in these proceedings The events that are related to the extremely appalling behavior of some doctors. Let me stress: some. As a rule, most doctors are probably doing their job noblely, according to their mission and vocation, but unfortunately there are those who embezzle and think more about commerce and business than the Hippocratic oath and the patient's service. And in such cases, often After all, it can be found in the media, all you have to do is make a press release. You can meet opinions expressing helplessness on the part of families, people who have lost their loved ones, when doctors, using a huge, far-reaching medical mystery, prevent them from coming to an effective explanation of a case related, for example. with a surprising course of treatment that ended in the death of the patient. Well, the question is, are we going to continue to accept such a situation that, in the name of the assumption of medical confidentiality... These assumptions are, of course, noble, but it happens that, in specific situations, specific doctors, who do not have any noble motivation, abuse the powers of medical secrecy. Not to protect the dead's interests, but to prevent the family from taking care of the dead's interests, explaining the circumstances of death. Also in the social interest... After all, explaining a case of abuse, medical irregularities or medical errors also serves to prevent such situations from repeating in the future, in the same hospital and in others. It serves the general public, all of us, as potential patients, and our families. This is not just about individual justice, it is also about eliminating certain behaviours that should not be repeated. This cannot be done otherwise than through the power of those who, by definition, are particularly bound, have special confidence in life... to pursue their rights later on before the justice system. But to come, you have to know first. You have to have basic information, you need to read the documentation, you need to learn about the mechanism, the circumstances and causes of death, and about medical therapy. It is only then that such a family has the right and the real opportunity to assert its rights before a court, in its best interests, but also in the social interest, to eliminate certain phenomena and behaviours of health services which may in the future lead to harm, and sometimes death of another person mistreated and mistreated in the context of the medical procedure. That's what this is all about. It's just that. We wouldn't have come up with that idea just like that. We have no other reason or interest in making this change. We felt that, when weighing all these values, we needed to see the situation and the context. I must tell you that, before presenting all these proposals, we have worked hard to make a legal comparative analysis of what the scope of this mystery is in the countries of the European Union. And we came to the conclusion that Polish solutions are one of the most restrictive, if not the most restrictive against the European background at all. There are very far-reaching solutions, which means that every citizen, not only the family, can request access to medical confidentiality. This is the case, for example. in Finland or in other Scandinavian countries, I don't remember the details at the moment, but we've been looking into it. There are countries in which it is assumed that if the patient did not object, then the family, and even sometimes people from a wider directory than people close to us, as we are we defined, they have the right, by definition, to have access to all this information, i.e. to repeal this mystery in this sense. This is the case, for example. France. And there are countries. Poland is also one of them They introduce very restrictive, even draconian solutions limiting family rights in this respect. We have assumed that we will not go as far as some Scandinavian countries, because we do not have to go as far as they do in terms of transparency. This is a culture that we have to take into account, this is a certain mentality of the Scandinavian countries associated with the quite common application of the principle of transparency and transparency in public life, but we can stop for example. at or close to the level of French solutions where it is presumed that family members are entitled to such information after the death of the deceased. However, we introduce a restriction, which is not there, that if any of the other close family members object to it, it will not be possible to have access to this secret. So we give the individual right to all the people closest to us, not just to one person, to co-decision in this regard, and in France, other family members have nothing to say. In short, I wanted to show you that this is not the solution that we have proposed, either, as a result of the voices and opinions of the environments that have come to us, but we have balanced and found in our view such a golden measure. It's not. In our opinion, of course. As some opinionaries present here, perhaps without further consideration of the proposed solutions, the will of the dead will not matter. That is not the case. From these solutions, from the records, also from the presentation of purposeful, functional interpretation, it follows that this will matter. If a person in life has made it clear that he does not wish to give such information to certain persons, then this will is still binding Unless such a reservation has not been made, then it is difficult to presume such a reservation. We presume that there is no objection for loved ones if a person has died... But since everyone has the right to object, this opposition in our view is as binding as possible after death. In this sense, the proposals we have put forward are, in my opinion, centralising between the various solutions that operate in the European Union, and the fact that there is an increasing awareness of patients or patient families related to the investigation of medical errors or sometimes gross carelessness. It's more than just medical errors. - and consequently, the investigation of liability before the courts. And that entitles us to support the kind of change that is serving this intention, no other. You could say that we It's a lot of charges, so let me get this digression. As representatives of the state authorities, we have access to this information... Sometimes I hear this reasoning: PiS has power, it probably wants to get another concession here, access to such information. No. The Attorney General and the D.A. have full access to this information. We give this access to citizens so that they can effectively assert their rights, so that it is not limited only to the initiative of the prosecutor, who can be reliable or unreliable, may be busy, in short, may not have time. Besides, the prosecutor usually doesn't speak for himself in such cases, but he is initiating proceedings as a result of a family notification. And it would be better for this notification to be based on the basis of sound knowledge of the deceased's family than solely on any presumption, sometimes bordering on insinuations, because such situations also happen. And in that sense, It's also in the interest of the doctors. Maybe there's one more thing beyond the sphere of transparency that I've referred to here. Publicity as a constitutional principle enshrined in our constitution, transparency as a principle in a democratic state, which I think we should wholeheartedly support with regard to the control of every authority, is governed by these regulations and is worthy of support. Yes, this raises objections, in particular courts or medical circles, because for many reasons they would prefer For your own comfort, and sometimes because of legal responsibility That these matters should not come to light, that they should be hidden somewhere. But we as a government The government of the coalition of Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska i Polski Together, we stand in the position that the rights of the citizen, first, and the interests of power, second. And that's the business we've been following, supporting these solutions. With regard to the changes in the cassation, there is, I believe, a misunderstanding here, because already in its current legal state, the Attorney General has the right to bring the cassation if there is a disproportionate judgment in relation to the social harm done by the criminal and the evil done by the criminal. And that is also thanks to your decision, because this possibility was introduced by a major revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which we have recently carried out. And I'd like to thank you very much for that, because yesterday the media gave it to you. We will take advantage of this possibility in the event of a dramatic, drastic event in my mind. And I think most of you would share that feeling if you were me. Many times the perpetrator cruelly murdered a young man, a boy under a disco in New Targ. First he stabbed his back and then stabbed him in the skull. He did not show regret or any reflection or repentance during the course of the proceedings, as the case record shows. And he's only been punished for 15 years of imprisonment. It was moving not only for family members, but for the whole environment. There were even protests or demonstrations at the New Fair. Spontaneous, no political. People just left and opposed it. But it's scary, too. People think when he comes out, what's it gonna be? After all, we know that the courts apply a conditional early release in such cases after the end of half the sentence. Well, then count the country while he's out. [[And how many years do you think he should get?]] [[We have to file a motion.]] So if a murderer who acts with special cruelty gets 15 years, it's a joke to me, not a sentence. [[We have to file a motion.]] [[So how many years should he get?]] That's why, thanks to your decision, I've filed an appeal for the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will decide. [[Yeah, that's right.]] But I think the perpetrator of such a cruel act The perpetrator who had previously shown on his way of life that he had nothing to do with the law and respect for other people who committed numerous crimes along the way This man should be isolated, preferably for the rest of his life. Because it's not fair. And I demand it in an erasation, and I have the opportunity to do it in the public interest. 'Cause it wasn't your decision. [[Okay, okay.]] [[But you can apply and raise the penalty.]] [[But what's the point of this discussion?]] [[Okay, but what's there to discuss?]] So... [[Excuse me...]] No, because... [[But is there any resistance on our part?]] [[I didn't give you the floor, Senator.]] He was. One of the men who spoke here questioned this matter. I would therefore like to explain why the Attorney General has such powers. He's got it, but the D.A. doesn't give final judgment, only the D.A.'s reprimanding himself. And in this amendment, we will only clarify these conditions. It's just that there's no doubt that the D.A. has the option. There have been some doctrinal doubts, so we'll clarify that. And that question, Mr. Senator. Because the question has been raised about this, I am just giving the answer, justifying this with a particular event. There is also a case relating to the possibility of returning the case which has already been pending before the prosecution if new circumstances are revealed, new evidence requiring the case to be properly prepared. I think we should all take care of a fair justice system. A relentless one, or one, who, in his final judgment, expresses material truth on the one hand and, on the other hand, gives away the full content of the evil which was done as a result of the crime. If the prosecutor finds that a case has been pending in court on the basis of an old procedure which is very restrictive in this regard and which ignores the very important circumstances relating to the offence, to the detriment or to the benefit of the perpetrator, it is in the interest of the judiciary that such a case can be further strengthened in evidence and sent to the court only then. Because it's the D.A. who's fully capable of carrying out some evidence, and the court has limited possibilities to do so. The court is not here to investigate or investigate, that's what the prosecutor is for. That is why, by way of exception, we introduce such a rule, while obliging the prosecutor to take his stand within six months in this case and to refer the matter to the court with such or other requests, depending on the findings of the evidence he has made. That's all. So this is about fairness, the good of justice and nothing else. We know that Polish courts often complain and complain that due to the unreliable, unprofessional actions of the prosecutor's office And I confirm, as the Attorney General in many cases, I see this inadequacy, this inadequacy, this poor quality. This case goes to court and later the court is to investigate instead of the prosecutor. Well, the court isn't from the investigation. The court is against the examination of the case and the judgment. And we want to help the courts in this regard, making sure that the cases that have been brought there are fairly and well done. And that's what this is all about. Dear Members, we will be able to assess the practical effect of these provisions. You always have the power to take the initiative to change the rules that we are now proceeding if they prove to be defective to some extent. And I'm convinced that more transparency 'Cause it's mostly about disclosure. It will be an advantage and shed much light on the debatable and not always understandable decisions of the justice system, because it is not just about the courts. It is ultimately about convincing the public that the courts are acting in the public interest, that the justice system is functioning and that justice is taking place in the courts. And I hope that these changes will serve that purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u43	Thank you very much. Minister, please remain. I'm sure there will be questions. As the first Marshal of Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u44	Minister, I am particularly interested in art. 360. He was changed as a result of such an upload at the level of the Sejm. I would like to ask you if this change was due to the initiative of you or the ministry officials. Because, as I know life, it is very difficult to vote on any change during second reading without such an initiative. [[Sure. Thank you very much...]] I mean, above all, the prosecutor's prerogatives, because these are new prerogatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u45	Of course. Mr. Marshal, at first I would like to apologize to you, but because of my other responsibilities, after I have answered this question, the Deputy Minister will answer the following questions in my replacement, Dr. Warchoł, who is a very competent person, is an employee of the Institute of the Warsaw Faculty of Law, deals with criminal law, so he will probably be a better interlocutor than I am, more competent. So let me and forgive you, but this isn't... [[But we have questions, Minister.]] I simply have other tasks that I have to carry out as Minister of Justice, and it is necessary to ignore them. So I will only answer this one question, and the rest of the questions will be answered by Minister Warchoł. Mr. Marshal, thank you for that question. I would like to clarify that this provision, which is contained in the amendment, is, to my knowledge, not an input that was introduced during the work in the Sejm, but from the very beginning it was included in the whole Parliamentary submission made at the initiative of Members. I also know that this presentation in this form came to the Ministry of Justice at the initiative of one of the social organisations, which sought to ensure that the sphere of transparency was carried out to a greater extent than has been the case so far. So I'd like to reassure you: there was no such thing. The fact that I would use the return of your question on the part of the Ministry of Justice was a consistent, positive opinion on this submission and a concrete solution. Taking advantage of the fact that you have been kind enough to ask me about this provision, I would like, by the way, to dispel yet another of your doubts which have been signalled in one of the speeches, perhaps even in two speeches, namely regarding the crimes of rape. This was because of the concerns that you have been concerned about, that these changes make the situation worse for people who have been victims of a rape crime, because so far these crimes have been prosecuted upon request and therefore automatically led to... giving such a person the power to effectively bring such a hearing to a secret. I must tell you that, in this respect, these provisions have already changed as a result of your decision, which has led to the situation that the offence of rape has ceased to be an application crime and has become an ex officio crime. In this respect, these provisions do not change the legal situation. It is so today that only the court can... that it is a decision of the court, and so it will be in accordance with this solution. The only additional authority is the D.A.'s... [[It's not gonna be like this, it's gonna be different...]] Today the court could, too, but it didn't have to... So in short, today there was no obligation in such situations because of the change you introduced. The court decided... And I can't imagine a prosecutor who's the purpose of a proceeding... who's to take more account of the interests of the victim, because, as it turns out, on the victim's behalf, he's accusing the victim of a court case, he can disregard the interests of the victim in this regard. The prosecutor's duty is first to weigh the interests of the victim, and the duty of the court is to balance the rights of the parties. So in this situation, looking for danger... [[But the court decides, not the prosecutor.]] ...on the side of the prosecution's action, that the prosecutor may pursue actions that would be detrimental to the interests of the victim, is a complete absurdity and swinging in the clouds, thinking separate from the realities of the Polish justice system. In such a case, the prosecutor must always, in principle, by virtue of his statutory obligations, take into account the interests of the victim, and this court, as an objective body, is rather obliged to weigh different rations. In short, the role of prosecutor is in no way a threat here. It's purely theoretical... not even theoretical, it's just completely detached from reality by a reservation that doesn't cover any of the facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u46	Marshal Borusewicz would like to comment if the Minister would allow it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u47	Minister, I'd like to inform you. You do not need to know exactly this law and the procedure to which it was subject. That Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 360 §2: If the prosecutor objects to the exclusion of disclosure, the hearing takes place openly, he was included in the draft law at the time of the second reading in the Sejm, this article was not in the earlier submission, in the parliamentary submission. [[The subject matter of the opinion was not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u48	I'd like to apologize to the marshal. I really don't know exactly what that procedure is. Thank you for reminding me of her. [[Because that's the question.]] Indeed, at the moment I recall that originally in this case it was possible to appeal to a higher court, but it was unfortunately criticised, i.e. I'm afraid... This solution has been severely criticised by the Supreme Court in terms of the possibility of this appeal, the introduction of an appeal. I think you have that opinion. And now I recall that, as a result of this, after talking to the organisations that initiated this procedure, this kind of solution was approved as a substitute solution. The idea was to go against the Supreme Court's reservations, which indicated that a possible appeal would lead to a long-term procedure, as this would entail the need for the review of the file by the appeal court, as if the transfer of the case, the formation of the appeal body. In short, it meant that it would make a very serious contribution to chronicity, and we know that one of the main allegations against the Polish justice system is the chronicity of ongoing proceedings. Indeed, in view of these reservations, after consultation with organisations that have notified solutions for greater transparency, such a change has been developed. When it comes to who, as I say, has played a creative role in the situation of making this change, I cannot answer. I know it was with these organizations... and I know it was the subject of negotiations at the expert level, so maybe these organizations suggested it, and maybe there was a role for the Ministry of Justice. Surely these organisations support this solution. So to clarify: thank you for this reminder, it is just as your marshal said. However, this does not change in any way the assessment I am presenting here. This is a proposal that goes against this transparency and at the same time eliminates the reservations of the Supreme Court, which have been submitted to the original project in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u49	There's just one more question, Minister. Do you agree to answer one more question, or do you have to go? [[I'm already late, but since the marshal is asking, so quickly, please.]] Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u50	Minister, I have a few questions, but I won't be able to ask them because you're in a hurry, and things are... [[But you'd be happy to answer Minister Warchoł, really...]] No, we just didn't get a lot of things straightened out at the Legislative Commission and from here... [[Ask me a question.]] [[We're wasting time.]] Minister, you said... There were reservations of the Supreme Court, indeed, but the Supreme Court could not imagine... You know, it's like we're talking about the flogging penalty, about the whip. Someone says the whip is, so to speak, too sharp, and he hears: and, well, then, we're gonna cut. Well, that's the way it is. The Supreme Court didn't talk about the situation you put in place, which is why... [[Mr. Senator, the speaking time will be up in a minute... you have one-minute questions.]] That's one thing. And two. What organizations have opted for such a solution, in general, for changing the institution of transparency?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u51	Organizations representing individuals... [[Because we don't know them, they're anonymous.]] ...touched by medical errors. I don't remember the name of these organizations right now, but we can send it to you. [[One, at least one.]] Maybe Minister Warchoł will remember. If you'd like, I'll pass it along. We can send it to you. It's not like it's a secret. [[Then put it in writing.]] [[I'll have that in writing, please.]] You're welcome. Then in writing it will be sent to the senator. [[Thank you very much.]] But I'll go back to your question. In many cases the justice system, the court is limited and dependent on the decision of the prosecutor. In many cases, the role of attorney general may be binding on the court. Without the procurator's activity and the prosecution's decision on specific cases, the court has no opportunity to speak and take any action. As a result, it is not surprising that the prosecutor is equipped with some criminal competence. It has many and they are described precisely in the Code of Criminal Procedure. At this point, we are giving a prosecutor's authority in the area, in the sphere of transparency only in a negative dimension and not in a positive one. He can't, as I said, lead to secrecy, which could be in his interest, if, for example. It would be inconvenient for power and power. I'm talking about the executive authority. She'd like to hide the matter. The D.A. doesn't have that option. But he has an opportunity as a voice of public interest. After all, the senator knows very well that this is also the wording of the state's status and the place of the prosecutor, to object to the situation in which the court arbitraryly secretes the proceedings. And that's what happens. Take a thorough look at the media, and you will find information on these issues. Even in the Wyborcza Gazet there was, as I recall, an article by your editor Wróblewski; now he no longer writes, but reported one such case. He was surprised that the case had been sealed and was not revealed in the area of medical errors. So I think it's easy for you to find such an example. [[I don't read the election.]] Well, Gazeta Wyborcza isn't really... I'm giving you an example here, an argument that you're going to use against us, especially given the place in the courtroom... It's not the paper I read, but you're probably reading it... [[I don't read. What do I need that for?]] ...that's why I'm appealing to this example. In other media, which I follow in turn, the more you will find such examples. Thank you very much again. The Minister is at your disposal, Mr Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite Minister Warchoł. Senator Zientarski has more questions, right? [[Yes, of course.]] [[I have questions too. Then I'll wait.]] Who's first, Mr. Marshal or Senator Zientarski? [[Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u53	Thank you. I'd like to repeat my question. Did the Minister have any part in the notification of this provision? 360 §2, which is at the moment at the second reading of the law in the Sejm? Otherwise, what was the Ministry's involvement?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! In the original text, §4 states that the order to exclude the disclosure of the hearing is entitled to appeal to another, equivalent composition of that court. The complaint shall be recognised without delay, but no later than 7 days after the date of transmission of the complaint together with the necessary files. [[It's not there.]] The Court of First Instance may decide that, pending the examination of the complaint, the hearing shall not be public. Meanwhile... [[It's not here, Minister.]] There it is. Meanwhile... [[You forgot that this submission was overthrown in the Seym.]] Meanwhile, in the opinion of the Supreme Court... [[Well, that opinion is about...]] ...we read... [[Senator, please comment on this beyond the end of the Minister's statement. I have a request to speak when I give it.]] However, in the Supreme Court's opinion, we read: I can't find her right now, but basically I know by heart that the complaint is unnecessary, as it extends the proceedings. Moreover, this complaint is a horizontal complaint. Let us remember that this is about the composition of another equivalent court. As far as horizontal complaints are concerned, the whole discussion about whether they are effective or not effective... In my private opinion, they're not effective. Art. 426 §2 k.p.k. he's the best example of that. There's a horizontal complaint there, too. Well, a friend or a friend in the next room I meet every day in the cafeteria will recognize my complaint. What is the effectiveness of this? What does that lead to? There were many criticisms about the article. 426. Let me remind you, it was about the situation of a temporary arrest, about when the court of appeal applies a temporary arrest for the first time. There appears to have been a judgment of the Constitutional Court in this case. I can't remember if there was even a senate initiative to change this rule. How'd it change? A horizontal initiative has been introduced, a horizontal initiative in the event of a complaint which does not lead to anything. It has been clearly criticised in doctrine, in literature as inefficient, ineffective, as a little bit of a screen recipe. And it was against this paravan law that the Supreme Court protested. That's right. Therefore, as I recall, Mrs Borowiec, at the subcommittee or committee meeting, I do not remember this, has submitted this proposal. She consulted him with us, of course. I said it wasn't necessary like Art. 426 §2, which is also redundant, brings nothing. This one doesn't bring anything either. And that's why it's the shape that it's ultimately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u55	Senator Piotr Zientarski. I'm giving the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u56	Minister, I would very much ask you to answer substantively and seriously, and not mock yourself. Because you're making fun of me right now. I know what I'm saying. [[Mr. Senator, you can't do that.]] If you say, sir, that the Supreme Court found it unnecessary to appeal in a horizontal system that operates in others... That's because the court's decision is enough. And that's what the Supreme Court said, sir, that's what the Supreme Court said. And you're putting in a situation where you're not just denying the possibility of appeal, which has been criticised as unnecessary... It is the decision of the court of Meriti and the Court of Appeal. Well, sir... And you support the Supreme Court's opinion? This is an outrageous situation. Let's be serious. You're starting to speak the language... We hear: Colleagues, Colleagues. We've heard that before. Sir, the courts and prosecutors are very often in the same buildings, and everyone knows each other, they're colleagues. So what? Lawyers know judges. So what, sir? Everyone's doing their job. We, too, are colleagues, respect each other, but, as a matter of fact, we fight, present our arguments and the role to which we are called, perform. You mean what? That there's a bunch of guys in the Senate and there's actually nothing to talk about? Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u57	Mr. Senator, let me remind you that... [[You started talking like...]] ...we're at a questioning stage that doesn't last more than a minute. [[Excuse me.]] [[The question is, is this gonna happen?]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but let me finish. Let me remind you that I am the voicer. That's one thing. Secondly, we are at the stage of asking questions about this law and lasting no more than a minute. In a moment, the senator will be entitled to a ten-minute and five-minute speech. Please comply with the rules. [[Yes.]] Are you a marshal on a formal matter or... [[No, no. I have a question.]] I see. Senator Zientarski. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have never had any objections to the culture of your marshal's proceedings. In short, Minister, can you tell us which organizations, because you said they were addressing you? The Minister could not respond to these changes with regard to the institution's exclusion of transparency?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u59	I just want to remind you that the Minister has committed himself to answering this question in writing, so I have a question for the senator if we're releasing... [[But just now, the Minister said that organisations were also asking about this issue...]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u60	Thank you very much. In answer to the first question, rejecting these emotions... [[Because it's storms...]] ...we don't need all of us, I'll tell you, Senator, that Mr. Senator... If I understand the question correctly, the meaning of the question, then the meaning of the question is as follows: Here's a suggestion: the ministry has twisted the meaning of the recipe? That's how I understand the first question. [[That's Marshal Borusewicz's question.]] I answer, she didn't make sense of the recipe, she didn't reverse the point of the recipe. The point of the rule from the beginning was: the judge cannot be a self-controller in the context of transparency. I have emphasized this since the first day of my work at the Sejm subcommittees. It is unacceptable that a person who is to be controlled by the principle of transparency may turn that control off by himself. An example I've used many times: it's as if the driver can turn off the camera that controls him. It was in the article from the very beginning. 360 §1b: exclusion of disclosure due to the important interest of the accused may take place only with the agreement of the prosecutor. Absolutely, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, The court has no last word, Senator. He didn't work on the project at the beginning, and he's not at the end of the project. Why isn't there? I say: because of this, Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 commands disclosure, not secrecy, only transparency. The exclusion of disclosure shall be determined by the paragraph. Article 2 45. In the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Riepan v. Austria, in which he defined the standard of transparency, we read: even if the process takes place in a place where access is difficult, the public, the press, the media should be able to know the vocabulary and how the hearings take place so that they can exercise at least minimum control over the justice system. Otherwise, there is a danger that this justice system will be carried out in a secret manner and thus the Court clearly stresses It threatens the values of a democratic state. Cesare Beccaria and Jeremy Bentham found that secrecy was always a means of protecting tyranny. Our Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly, even in its judgment of 11 June 2002, stressed that transparency is part of social control over justice. [[Everyone agrees.]] The Minister mentioned it today. I will add: second, this transparency affects the formation of social attitudes. Like what? She influences, among others, trust in the justice system. These are all the axiological considerations that make you, Senator, that it's not the court's last word in terms of transparency, it's the prosecutor's. That's what happened from the very beginning, and none of the Ministry's drop-offs have changed that. That's the answer to the first question. And as for the second question, yes, I'm already saying, the NOP Stop Association, against vaccinations... [[What's it called?]] Okay, stop, stop, stop, stop, [[It's called "NOP Stop"?]] Yes, sir. [[This is an association.]] Yes, sir. It has come to us with this request. I had the pleasure of attending last Saturday, sir, in a meeting of the victims of justice. It was in the Column Room. I always have this kind of respect, respect for the harm that they bring with me. Someone's gonna say piss. No, I'll say, money doesn't come out of nowhere, it's the result of something. I had the opportunity to work for a few at the Ombudsman's Office, where I met on the front line with the harm of citizens. People are often treated by the justice system in a disrespectful, arrogant way. As I presented this project to them, there was applause, Mr. Senator. He was accepted almost by the acclamation. Why? Because people want transparency. Representatives of various associations that were represented there I can name them all: yes, that's what we need. We need access to justice, as in the current article. 90, and the need for media control over the justice system. This is a civic, social project. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u61	Does Senator Zientarski want to ask you another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u62	Yes. Minister, no one is questioning the principle of transparency that you are talking about. Nobody's questioning her. But you don't answer questions. I'm asking you if the victims of justice can also be people who... If the transparency of the proceedings is not excluded, the behaviour of such persons will be publicised, e.g. in the sexual sphere. And maybe an additional question. Do you think that in the case of moral and sexual crimes, there should be an exclusion of transparency or not? No matter what the D.A.'s position is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u63	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u64	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that at present, sexual crimes are not particularly distinguished and in their case disclosure is not excluded. After the entry into force of this law, they will not be distinguished either. This bill doesn't change anything in the context of sexual crimes. That's one thing. Secondly, the possibility of excluding disclosure due to morality, public tranquility, good customs is provided for in Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution and Article. 360 k.p.k., which are still valid. And just as the court is bound by it, so is the prosecutor. Yes, it will be his last word, but in the context of the article. 360 §1 and in the context of Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. So the prosecutor will investigate whether there are grounds for good practices, public peace, public morality, etc., and on the basis of these conditions, he will be able to express his views on the issue of exclusion of public disclosure. To sum up the answer to your question, I can say that, as at the moment, there is no justification for the particular distinction of sexual issues, neither will it find it after the entry into force of this law. Nothing's gonna change around here. Today, laws do not exclude sexual crimes, nor do they make any special distinction here that it must be secret. The court will always be able to exclude disclosure, the prosecutor will be able to object, but the prosecutor will be bound by the constitution and this provision as a spokesman for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u65	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll read who signed up to ask questions. Now you will ask Senator Augustine, then Senator Pęk, Marshal Borusewicz, Senator Florek and again Mr Zientarski. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u66	Minister, transparency can indeed serve the justice system, and no one is questioning that. However, it seems to me that we are going to violate another principle here, equally important, namely the principle of independence of judicial decisions. If the decision of the court can invalidate the prosecutor's objection, what legal reality are we in? I'd ask you to tell me where it is that the D.A. can annul, block the court's decision. I want you to point out these cases to me. Where is it that the D.A. can change the decision of the entire judge's office one-on-one, he can say, "I don't agree, I want it to be the way I want it to be?" That's the first question. The second question concerns Article. 3 and medical confidentiality. Well, some kind of security is what Minister Ziobro said here, that all loved ones must agree to reveal their medical confidentiality after she's dead. Okay, but how is that in practice? Mr. Minister, answer the question. It is said that if another person opposes the disclosure of the secret, then one cannot release it. And how is that other person supposed to know? There is no reference to the Regulation, there is no obligation to notify other relatives. It's just that someone wants to be exposed, and the rest of them have no idea, so they don't object, and it's already fulfilling the laws. Then it may turn out that everyone else was against it, but they didn't know it, and the secret's gone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u67	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u68	Thank you very much. First question... Maybe I'll start with the other one because... excuse me if the senator would be kind enough to remind you first... [[Give examples when the D.A. can question the decisions of the court.]] Oh, I know, decisions. Thank you very much. As far as independence is concerned, because such a question has been asked here by your senator, independence concerns judgment, is an element of judgment, judgment. The court is independent because such a primacy was granted by the legislator, it is a rule, a principle sanctified, but independence has nothing to do with the issue of transparency or secrecy. Just because we're exposing a trial doesn't mean we're limiting the independence of the court. I would stress that Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 provides that everyone has the right to be heard openly by an independent and independent court. Yes, sir. [[For reconnaissance.]] And there's absolutely no connection here. What happened earlier also sounded, if I remember correctly, in the opinion of the association [[At what point can he question the decision of the court?]] As I say, there is no connection between independence and disclosure of the trial and disclosure of the content of the trial. There is absolutely no threat to independence here. [[Can he question the court's decisions?]] Second question. Yes, sir, I'll answer that. On the most important point, Senator, on the issue of conviction, voluntary punishment, conviction under Article. 387. If the prosecutor objects, there is no conviction at all, which means the prosecutor has the last word in the context of the conviction. Is this the case known to the code? She's famous. [[There will be no judgment...]] Of course, that's right, there will be no sentence in any way that punishes you if the D.A. objects. We know this situation. [[But there's no decision here.]] [[It's a court decision.]] I answer... [[I ask: when can the prosecutor challenge the decision of the court?]] The prosecutor may challenge the decisions of the court e.g. when she's making an appeal. He can always question the decision of the court. [[He can report...]] Here it is binding, so it is, in the case of Article. 387 of the prosecutor's opposition is bound by the court. There's no voluntary surrender order. It's a court-martial. The court's hands are tied. Yes, sir, Senator. [[It's not like there's a decision.]] [[But wait a minute, Mr. Senator Zientarski, now the question is asked by Senator Augustine.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u69	Mr. Marshal, I ask when the prosecutor can challenge the decision, and the Minister tells me about the procedure in which the court decision does not appear. [[Yes, sir.]] That's not the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u70	There is no court decision because the court is bound by the voice of the prosecutor. If the D.A. objects, there's no judgment. The D.A.'s finally blocking the verdict, ladies and gentlemen. [[No, no, no.]] So I don't think there's a more prominent example. [[Senator Zientarski, I'll give you the floor in a moment, as much as you want. Believe me.]] The second question was also very interesting. Thank you very much. It involved another loved one. [[How will she know?]] Yeah, how's she supposed to know about that? The provisions are several times, for example in Article. 61 k.p.k. that loved ones have the right to join, in the case of Article. 61: in the event of the death of a private prosecutor, if, within three months of the death of a private prosecutor, the entitled person does not enter the rights of the deceased, the court shall waive the proceedings. And there is no regulation here, and there is no obligation to inform in this provision. But what is it? There are rules in C.P.K. And according to the principle of loyalty, Article. 16 c.p.p.k. I read: If the investigating authority is obliged to instruct the participants in the proceedings about the duties and powers they have, the absence of such instruction or misinstruction must not have negative effects... And now, note, §2: The investigating authority should also, where necessary, provide information to the parties to proceedings on their obligations and their powers also in cases where the law expressly does not constitute such an obligation. What's the recipe for? So we didn't have a code for the Prussian Landrecht, which counted, if I'm not mistaken, 7,000 articles and where everything was regulated, from the depth of the lake to different kinds of specific issues. That's not how you make rules. The rules are created in a synthetic and understandable way, clear. There is a principle of procedural loyalty and the court can always exercise such powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u71	Mr. Senator Bang. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like us to get down on the ground in this discussion just a little bit, because this discussion is getting so abstract and theoretical. I would like to return to the issues related to the exemption from medical confidentiality, in general to this aspect of this amendment, which concerns procedures for medical errors, about mistakes in art. If the Minister could give a few such strong examples of the practice of justice, where the current legal situation is simply failing and leading to some appalling matters not being explained, and how this amendment will help to make things better... Prior to that, Minister Ziobro recalled an example of an extermination from the New Trade Fair. I know this case pretty well. And such an example immediately opens the eyes, not only to us, but also to the citizens. I think we need to talk more specifically about the topics discussed here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u73	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u74	Thank you very much. Cases of obvious malpractice in the medical arts... I'm gonna plead for the Gazeta Wyborcza, just like the Minister. Following my boss, I'm going to refer to the Vocal Gazeta. Recently we read about an appalling medical malpractice case, as I recall, it was under Szczecin. Where, despite the resulting half-million-dollar compensation and probation, relatively small, for a miscarriage in the art, there is a successful transfer of assets. The proceedings with Article shall be conducted. 300 of the criminal code and the victim, the victim, cannot obtain compensation. Why? Because the court, Ladies and Gentlemen, has tried alimony of PLN 19.5 thousand per month, which enables the accused, precisely this doctor, to carry out the property effectively. The question is: who are these kinds of decisions for? Who does it serve to sweep this kind of thing under the rug? The case I'm talking about has been described recently by the Gazeta Wyborcza, it seems that a week or two ago, Tuesday. It affects, Mr. Senator, many complaints to the Ministry in such cases, at the moment I no longer remember the details. But we collect all these things, we analyze them, and we take action on them. And the bill discussed here aims to solve such cases, to improve patients' situation and to break up with such a specific enchanted circle. Everyone says it's all legal. Can you charge alimony of PLN 19.5 thousand? Yes, you can. Is it possible, artificially and in a way that violates the law, to determine whether a marriage is to be terminated? Yes, you can. Everything's legal. And yet everyone sees that there is manifest injustice in all of this, human harm. This law counters such situations. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u76	Minister, I am surprised that Minister Ziobro and you refer to the Gazeta Wyborcza, whose subscriptions you forbade officials... [[Is that a question?]] ...that you now demand us to read the I have a question to clarify my previous question. You said it was an art recipe. 360 has been consulted with the Supreme Court and that the Supreme Court has expressed objections to this provision. But I ask you, is this new recipe that was filed at the time of your second reading in the Seym by your Member... I'm specifically asking about the article. 360 §2: If the prosecutor objects to the exclusion of disclosure, the hearing shall be open. Was he also consulted with the Supreme Court? Has the Supreme Court taken a stand? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: I understand that I can answer that, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u77	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u78	Yes? Thank you very much. No, he wasn't consulted. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u79	Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Actually, Senator Augustine has already asked such a question, but I will only go back to that in one sentence, because you said that's not how the law is created. It's about the doctor's obligation to keep a secret after the patient's death. Sir, I think it's pretty clear that this could lead to some family conflicts if this circle of people is limited. And we know what a circle of people it is. If one of the people agrees, and the other loved ones, as the senator said, will not know about it, then the moment this mystery is revealed, there will be a big problem. So it is such a treatment of the case that a rule of law is created in such a way that it is clear who can and can't, but it is not taken into account, in my opinion, very serious consequences. But the mystery of death in the case of a loved one is very important. There may be one person in the family who will say yes, I agree; and then there will be a big problem with the others. So, do you really believe that this provision is well regulated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u81	Thank you very much. First of all, the Minister referred to other legal systems today. I would like to remind you that in France, I refer to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office in this regard. If necessary, authorised persons may request information contained in the medical records of the deceased in order to exercise their rights. I would like to remind you that in Ireland, the release of medical records of a deceased patient does not need to be subject to his signature in the course of his life. Any of the people in this case can come forward. I would like to remind you that in Slovenia, the medical records of a deceased patient can also be read by persons who have a legal interest in this and will show it in an appropriate document. etc., etc. I'm not gonna point any further. Great Britain is yet a grateful example here. In short, there are a number of legal systems where it is not indicated in detail that Jan Kowalski must ask Janina Kowalska if she does not mind. It's natural. It's natural, Mr. Senator. Just like in the article. 61 k.p.k., which I have already referred to In the event of the death of a private prosecutor, proceedings shall be suspended and each of the closest persons may enter into his or her rights within a period of three months. Can this cause conflict? No conflicts in the context of Article. 61 k.p.k. I didn't hear you. If he can, then, in short, we have to make a deal. The legislator is not omnipotent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u83	Minister, Minister Ziobro said it was the interest of the court to exclude public disclosure. Please tell me what kind of business you have in court, excluding the transparency of the hearing. Because in my more than twenty years of practice, I didn't meet the situation that the court had business. The court conducts the proceedings and gives the judgment. And that's it. What kind of business does the court have?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u84	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u85	Mr. Senator, this was about the situation... Minister, I presume... I don't know if that's exactly how the Minister put it, but I believe it was a situation of abuse of the current rules in order to keep the hearing secret. Yes, there really is such a danger. Of course it exists, because the conditions that are currently in this provision... Let's take a look at this recipe. Art. 360: the court excludes the disclosure of the case in whole or in part, if the disclosure of the case could and here respectively To create a disturbance of peace; to offend our good manners; to reveal the interests that should be kept secret, or to violate an important private interest. What's this? These are general clauses. Professor Łętowska used to call such clauses rubber, rubber, which can be applied, depending on the situation, depending on the need, after being considered, on a double standard basis, or not to apply them. And that is the danger that the Minister was talking about. This danger is being countered by this project. I will refer to the next judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, in the case of Nikov and Vandova v Bulgaria of 2013, when the tribunal said: the exclusion of the transparency of the hearing cannot be automatic. The interest of the judiciary, which is often invoked by the courts This is what the senator is asking, it cannot serve as a pretext for secrecy and a convenient excuse, please listen, it is very cool, for the suppression of fundamental rights. This cannot be a convenient excuse for the suppression of fundamental rights, says the Strasbourg Court, setting a standard of conduct. That's what it's like to counter this convenient excuse. This is the resignation of these general, rubber clauses, from the kind of situations that give the court an opportunity after being considered, as I say, depending on the situation and on the particular whim, to secrete the hearing. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u86	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator... Senator Zientarski still wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u87	That's another question you haven't answered, because the principle of transparency isn't questioned by anyone. The supplementary question is, was there any research in addition to this organization that you mentioned? Because you're speaking theoretically... After all, this regulation worked for years and there were no problems with it. The Lord says he's in danger. Of course, but only if the practice is distorted. If we're dealing with a study that shows that this practice is distorted... And there was no such study. You gave me the name of one organization. Did she do any research on that, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u88	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u89	Thank you very much. As I said, and today the Minister also said this when it comes to the practice of the functioning of justice after the entry into force of those rules which break up with any court, with the arbitraryness of the judges in this regard, we will follow this practice. We're gonna run some tests... [[I'm asking about the previous practice, and you're talking about something else.]] As far as practice from the past is concerned, I say that such studies, as far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, were not carried out because, in principle, this is not part of the standard process of investigating the functioning of justice. You just don't test it. It's not being tested. But the fact that you're... [[Then how do you know it's bad?]] Just because this is not being investigated does not mean that the legislator should be blind to cases of individual cases that affect people's complaints every day. This is an example of Mrs. Kowalska, Mr. Kowalski, who are complaining about such unfair regulations for them. There's no need for research here. You don't need any tests in this case, but these tests will. Of course, all these provisions in this area will be severely criticised in the fire of judicial practice, as the Minister said, and I repeat, you will be able to see it, and if this situation is abused... We're heading towards Scandinavian. If the situation in our country turns out to be that our society is incapable of transparency, it has not grown into transparency, then we will keep it secret again. But for now... Once again, Beccaria and Jeremy Bentham were always a means of protecting tyranny. And let's stop there. For now, and while we're at it, we'll be checking how it works.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would return to those doubts that are related to loosening the rules on medical confidentiality. While matters relating to the transparency of the hearing and public scrutiny of courts and proceedings are obvious to me, here I have no comments, but in this case some issues raise my doubts. First line. What's that for? What's the point of relaxing the rules? I'm talking about the possibility of getting information about a patient who's already died. After all, in the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient, a whole conglomerate of dozens of articles was added. 67a, 67b etc. That talk about proceedings before the voivodship committee for ruling on medical events. So, on the one hand, the patient has the option of consenting to the provision of information about his health to others, even after his death, I understand; this is Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd of this bill. On the other hand, there is a set of rules on cases where we should assume The family or, in this case, the heirs have doubts about the treatment and the related repercussions. They have the right to access medical records; they are talking about this in Article. 26. So the question is, what's the point of relaxing? In which cases Is it supposed to work? That's the second question. It's just a matter of procedure. Please note that you have not defined the procedure. There are no implementing regulations. If for example. where the documentation referred to in Article is made available. 26 of the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Patients, is the executive act of the delegation to issue it contained in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 There is no implementing act in this case. There are simple questions. First. How can we tell what the circle of loved ones is? Because all loved ones need to be informed that one of them wants to share information. Two. Could it not have been possible to apply the procedure that was in force in the case of proceedings before the voivodship committee on medical events? The point is that heirs, or a circle of people, delegate one person, authorize her to act on their behalf. In other words, in order for there to be no doubt about the person who wants information, it is ceded to obtain a lack of denial... or to obtain the consent of other loved ones. That's not here. There's no procedure. Minister, this is a medical issue. This isn't K.P.K. We're still a long way from K.P.K. Because in answer to these questions, i.e. to similar questions, from this cycle, you obscure yourself with the one in the articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure... There isn't a k.p.k. yet. There's no D.A.'s office. There's a person close to the deceased, there's medical records, and there's an organ that stores this file and has information about what really happened to the deceased. That's my first doubt. However, as I said, I am primarily interested in the sensibleness of this provision. Why is he softened? In this case, it's for me... [[Proceed, Senator, to your question.]] Yes. There were 2 questions concerning the reasonableness of the provision and the detailed procedure, in particular in relation to the Article. 26 and 30, related to the provision of documentation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u92	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u93	The current rules in Poland are one of the most restrictive in Europe. That's what the Minister said, and I stress it. Of the 20 countries surveyed At least through the Office of Sejm Analysis and through us We stand out for a unique recipe. A provision that requires a question Colloquially speaking A patient who is often unconscious in an ambulance is asked whether or not he consents to the release of medical confidentiality after his possible death. This is ridiculous. The Patient Rights Act and the Ombudsperson of Patient Rights in Chapter 7 of the Act on Patients' Rights to Medical Documentation in Article 7 of the Act on Patients' Rights. 26 indicates that, after the patient's death, the right to access the medical records is available to the person authorised by the patient in his/her lifetime. Let me remind you that the information gathered during our research shows that such situations are taking place in Denmark. That was a few years ago, in 2010. Namely, the Danish Ombudsman opposed precisely such regulations, such regulations which prevented the patient's family from filing a lawsuit effectively, e.g. in the event of a medical malpractice. Why? 'Cause there wasn't anybody in time to pick up a dying patient's authorization. Well, that's absurd. And secreting this kind of thing was a problem in Denmark. A special committee was appointed and the possibility of lodging a complaint was introduced to a special committee for the activities of medical services which, often without justification, classified such documentation. What kind of cases? That's the kind of thing, Mr. Senator, when the closest person wants to know why someone in the family died and wasn't able to issue an authorization. So the answer to this question is very simple. I don't remember what the next part of the question was. [[Can I give you a hint?]] Yeah, yeah. [[The further part of the question concerned either the procedure or the absence of a procedure.]] Oh, yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u94	Minister, I'd like to talk you out of a mistake. Indeed, in the article. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 is referred to as consent, but there is also Article. Article 26 (2) (b) Point 10, which provides that The health care provider also provides medical documentation to (...) heirs in the proceedings before the voivodship committee on medical events. So if one of the heirs has doubts and starts the procedure, then there is no mercy, such documentation must simply be disclosed to these people for these purposes. So the question arises as to what other goals are involved. And that was the first question. Why, aside from the proceedings before these provincial committees... And second, no procedure... Well, it's a simple thing. The procedure for dealing with these voivodship committees is defined in a clear and transparent manner and there is no procedure here. You're introducing some kind of blank rule in case you're really just going to have problems. People close to you in this sense may be Depending on the number of offspring and the health status of the pre-emptive children, 10 and 20, and as good grandchildren, even up to 30. [[Question!]] It was a simple question. The Minister doesn't answer that simply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u95	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u96	Thank you very much. This provision, which the senator referred to, concerns a specific procedure, a specific procedure before the said voivodship committee. And in that case, it must be the person who is the heir, and not all must be the heir. Such a person must implement a special procedure on the basis of which he may possibly request such documentation. Is that what we want to guarantee our citizens? Do we want to send them back to a special procedure first? And if someone wants to run another procedure, for example. Does he want to bring an action immediately or file a complaint with the prosecutor? This rule is silent about the prosecutor's notice, Senator, but it says that such a person must be an heir. What if he's not an heir and he's a close person? We here are following European standards as much as possible. I stress the conclusion of this opinion: in the countries concerned, the provision of medical records is generally made without the need for patient's prior consent. So there aren't any... I think Romania is the only exception, but it's not exactly the standard we want to introduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u97	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls... [[I have a question.]] You're welcome. [[Minister, would you like to...]] Turn on the mike, please. [[Minister, would you like to...]] I can't hear you. [[You have to put your card in.]] [[Card?]] [[You're a mess, Zbysia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u98	Minister, you would like to quote an example from the French law that I am dealing with, and therefore I have a question. Those provisions that you cited concern a different matter, they concern the provision of documentation. We are considering the question of questioning as a doctor's witness, which is bound by professional secrecy under the laws of most civilized countries. And it's not for protecting this doctor, it's for protecting the interests of the patient. As far as I know, art. 226 §13 and 14 of the Penal Code even contain criminal sanctions against doctors who violate the principle of medical secrecy. So that I would like to stress that there are 2 separate issues here, in my opinion. One is the question of medical records and access to it, and the other is the question of questioning the doctor about information that is a secret.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u100	Thank you very much. These two issues are closely linked, Senator. First of all, because art. 180 §2 k.p.k. points to restrictions in the context of medical confidentiality. Medical secrecy is not absolute, it is limited. For what? For the sake of justice, as pointed out by the article. 180 §2. And then the court, precisely for the sake of the good of the justice system, can limit this mystery, disable it. So there are no contradictions here. Access to medical information, medical records is absolutely access to medical confidentiality. The doctor's hearing is a complementary, complementary element of this access. Medical secrecy, like any other secret, is limited for the sake of the good of justice, and it is in the interests of the good of justice that a just judgment is given, which also respects the interests of the victim. Wounded In this case, nearest persons They have the right to have access to this secret. Art. 2 k.p.k. says that the purpose of criminal proceedings is also to make amends to the interests of the victim. How can these interests be compensated, how can he exercise his authority if there are no tools, for example, through access to medical information, medical records? One thing comes from the other. In order to be able to report a crime effectively, e.g. to go to the prosecutor's office, and not just to go to the committee in administrative mode, you have to have such a right. And how will it be realized later? Well, that's how we're gonna question the doctor as a witness, except for medical confidentiality, based on the interests of the justice system. And this business will come down to the business of the victim who wants to reveal the truth about his dead loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u101	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering all your questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Thank you very much.]] You're still Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. And I'm closing the list. [[Good.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u102	Thank you. I'm still in time. However, Minister, do you not think that, in the light of these votes, there should be a delegation to issue a regulation that regulates access to medical information by family members? 'Cause I'm having second thoughts about it, too. It's a blank recipe, and it can lead to serious conflicts inside the family, because if not all family members will know... This is the closest family, and he doesn't even have a grade... I mean, this recipe doesn't talk about the immediate family, it's about the family; it also applies to the concubine, the concubine. It's interpreted differently, whether it's the closest family or not, and it's interpreted differently. So once again, I repeat my question: shouldn't there be a delegation for the Minister to issue a regulation? Do you maintain your assessment that such a delegation is unnecessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u103	Very much so, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u104	Thank you. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, thank you for your question. I don't rule that out. If there is further consultation And I've announced that this will be the subject of an analysis, a study. In the context of agreements or cooperation, I do not exclude the examination of what it looks like; we will also examine in depth each of these 20 legal systems, we will see what specific, detailed solutions are foreseen there, e.g. in the context of avoiding possible conflicts or provisions clarifying certain issues; I do not rule out such a thing. Yes, that's a rational voice, Mr. Marshal. [[Minister, I just wanted to point out that, in my opinion, if there is no delegation, you will not be able to issue a regulation.]] [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: Of course not.)]] [[There must be a delegation in the bill.]] [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: Of course.]] [[And it's a delegation on a specific rule. That's all. And I would like to point out that you might have a problem.]] Mr. Marshal, I repeat that in the current wording this provision does not raise our doubts. However, if practice shows such a need, if any of you in this House or any of the citizens turn to us with information that this raises doubts, then we will order a study, in the meantime we will check. As far as I'm concerned, it appears that in analyzed foreign legal systems... It wasn't that detailed. We absolutely do not leave this solution to ourselves. We'll keep an eye on him. We are, of course, also at our disposal, to check the functioning of this provision in practice. I certainly do not rule out this solution in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u105	Thank you again, Minister, for answering all your questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Zientarski. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a law that regulates things in different places, different issues. I want to concentrate on the article. 360. This provision is another provision that strengthens the role and position of the prosecution in criminal proceedings. We already had a law on the D.A.'s office, which in general changed the functioning of the D.A.'s office and gave additional powers to the D.A. for Minister Ziobra. He was given powers to interfere with the prosecution's actions at the lowest level. And he has been given powers which also give him the opportunity to obtain information on prosecutorial proceedings at every level, as well as to provide this information to third parties and the media. Here during the procession of art. 360, which tells us how disclosure could be restricted, at second reading, undoubtedly at the initiative of the Ministry, was added §2, which says that if the prosecutor objects to the exclusion of disclosure, the hearing takes place openly. So the D.A. becomes a court reviewer. It's not the court that decides. This recipe is clear. He's negative, he's negative, and he's the one who's making the prosecution decide whether the trial or part of the trial is open or whether it's possible to exclude disclosure. This is a situation in which the prosecutor gets additional powers, and yet in the process it is important to have equality of the parties, equality of the prosecutor with the lawyer, the identity of the defendant's evidence and his proxy. Here, this equality of sides is disturbed. I am not surprised because since the beginning of the operation of the Public Prosecutor's Office under the direction of Minister Zbigniew Ziebra, who is, after all, the Minister of PiS, it is clear that this equality of the parties has been undermined. Additional prerogatives of the prosecutor's office are clear I'm referring to the D.A.'s attorney's office law. But it's not just the D.A.'s office, because it's the D.A.'s office. After all, in such a situation, the prosecutor will probably consult before submitting his application, and the Attorney General will be able to issue a disposition that we have to act like this or otherwise. He's going to make it public that this particular process is going to be an open trial. I don't want to go back to sexual crimes, child molestation, which, unfortunately, in a significant part, is happening among the family. That's the situation and we're aware of it. I find it very bad and dangerous not even to exclude this category of crimes, sexual offences involving minors. It can be assumed that the prosecutor will maintain some moderation in the application of transparency, but the individual prosecutor's decision, not the judge's or the court's decision on this issue, is not a step in the right direction. I am applying for the deletion of the article. 360 §2, so that it is the court which decides this, at the request of the parties, when this disclosure may be excluded. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I support this proposal. I would like to say that I did not get an answer from the Minister, at which point in time the court's decisions In my opinion, this is a violation of the existing rules under which the prosecutor accuses, seeking a judgment which he considers fair... It cannot be that the court will not fully host the entire proceedings and that the prosecutor will be able to challenge the decision of the court. I fully support this amendment. I see this law in a context In the context of what has already happened here, what has happened. I have the impression that the D.A. wants more and more powers. We have already spoken about the fact that he is entitled to hold press conferences, to inform the media that he and his colleagues in the prosecutor's office in total have been excluded from the possibility of appeal, because if they prove that they were acting in the public interest in their understanding, then they can't really do anything and in almost any case accuse them of doing anything. This is a completely curiosity situation. Therefore, although the Minister here has shown that the institution of Cassation only because of the disproportionateness of the penalty has been introduced a little earlier, it must be added that it is precisely in those provisions which we consider too far-reaching. It cannot be said that these rules and what you are doing serve to improve the credibility of the justice system. You're not doing anything else in your justifications, you're questioning the work of the courts and the justice system. Maintaining or strengthening this prerogative in relation to crime may mislead the public, because everyone imagines a crime as a homicide, and that is not the case. If you want to pursue a stricter criminal policy, which was also announced in the election campaign, you want to do it, then please, let's update the codes, increase the lower level of punishment, etc., although I am against it for another reason. Well, I have not yet heard of reliable evidence that someone after a long prison, Minister, would be much better, and other examples I know, yes, yes. The Minister doesn't have that kind of faith either. He'd rather put those serious criminals away for life. It seems to me that the Minister of Justice, who has such views and such views, is part of a bad circle of people who do not understand the essence of justice. The essence of the justice system is not just punishing a criminal, but, as far as possible, pursuing rehabilitation to get this man back on track for improvement. The state about the other side seems completely forgotten, and there is really, Minister, much to do, perhaps the most. What are our prisons? Why are criminals so rarely rehabilitated? Why aren't you doing this? Because it's harder than a populist approach that's supposed to be conducive to showing off. And this presentation, among others. That's what it's for. As a supporter of the development of civil traffic, I very much welcome the opportunity of the representatives of these organisations to participate in the proceedings, but it seems to me that this should not go too far. I personally doubt... In addition, in his statement of reasons, the Minister pointed out what organisations were involved. One that's gonna stand on the DA's side. It seems to me that this provision should be more precise in order to give equal opportunity to those who will act in favour of the accused, if there are such circumstances. Although the accused also, when there is excess, has the right to speak, but let us be honest, that an ordinary man accused of something, acting in some organizations that would like to testify to him, who would like to bring something to this judicial procedure, will have trouble assessing properly who can and cannot participate in such proceedings. And last but not least, the question that Mr. Senator's already raised here, and which I also mentioned earlier in the question. When I recently prepared one of the laws and entered the rights of loved ones there, Senacci legislators immediately proposed that we enter the definition of a loved one. There are several laws in which this concept exists, and it occurs there in different senses. Since you do not define it, I have doubts, first of all, whether you will know who is really in the circle of loved ones, and secondly, how will the loved ones know that another person in the circle of loved ones has decided that you can reveal the medical confidentiality. These issues are not governed by the law by any procedure, there is no reference to any regulation, the Minister referred to the provisions here, but further questions showed that they were not really relevant and we are not sure that they would be applied. Minister, this is a court of justice. It is not that another resort creates the law, and the Minister of Justice raises doubts as to whether it is sufficiently precise. If I hear from the Minister of Justice: well, listen, dear Senators, let's introduce these regulations and see what happens... Minister, this is not a game of human fate. This is not an experiment. This is a law to guarantee respect for civil rights and the constitution. For both of these reasons I have doubts as to whether the constitutional rules... whether the independence of the courts is being violated here and whether civil rights are properly respected, and I will support the motion to reject the law in question. Because in such a shape it is, to put it mildly, underdeveloped and it is clear that it is still fueling doubts as to whether the courts in Poland are ruling correctly. Mistakes have always happened and can happen. Uneducated Judges And so do I. But this series of laws that you are presenting seems to convey such a message that the courts are not trustworthy at all, and the judges are all the more so and it is necessary to keep an eye on them, even at the border of the law, so to speak. This is a bad approach that undermines the authority of the courts, without which order in the Republic, consisting in the balance of the authorities and respect for them, will be difficult in the long run to maintain.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Perfect timing: 9 minutes and 50 seconds. Perfect timing. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, of course, also consistently support the motion made by the minority to reject the law. But I also support the amendment tabled by you by Marshal Borusewicz, which is at least an important solution to the problem of the article. 360. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this case is not trivial, this case is serious. The Minister, with the lightness, typical of his response style, showed us that it was sort of... He wanted to show that this was as a result of the criticism of the Supreme Court, which criticised the introduction of the so-called. the level of judicial review of the judgment, the ruling of the court excluding disclosure, introduced such a situation that the court would not ultimately decide to exclude disclosure. And it was right to ask Senator Augustine's questions to show whether, in court proceedings, any ruling in one instance . judgment or order After its issue, it may be changed as a result of a prosecutor's veto. And that's the situation, ladies and gentlemen, isn't it? This is an unimaginable situation at all. After all, it is only a court at the stage of court proceedings. The independent court is the guarantor of both the proper course of the procedure and the judgment which may be challenged under the legal procedure and may therefore be brought before the second instance in accordance with the constitutional principle. I stress: according to the constitutional principle. And here we are dealing, ladies and gentlemen, with a breach from this principle. It is not enough that this precedent situation has not been assessed by the Supreme Court, either by the National Council of Courts or by other legal bodies. Only during the sitting did we hear voices of strong opposition. Also the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights during the committee meeting... Ladies and gentlemen, we need to realise that we are taking a step, creating a breach or establishing a breach... I mean, we're being offered a breach so that the court will no longer be the sole host of legal proceedings. 'Cause the D.A. has the right to apply for an annulment as well. And that, I think, is the right thing to do. Minister, you have to think about this, this has already been mentioned in the revision of the Penal Code in the previous term of office, or... Because in the event of a repeat, we have a situation where we can get punishment up to 20 years, right? This may already be the case, but not in the original way. Let's not be surprised that the court is prosecuting the most serious crimes of 15 years, since this is the highest penalty. There are two more extraordinary ones, but this is the highest punishment in the catalog. I think it's time to change the upper limit, here I agree, and give the court a greater dimension of the judicial dimension of the penalty, and I repeat: this is the agreement. But it's basically as part of a revision of the criminal code. And here's the absolute agreement. It's okay, and no one's questioning it. Because how can we question, we serious lawyers, the principle of transparency? She's constitutional. The Minister is talking about a certain superfluum, a situation that is not being challenged by anyone. But the constitution also says when the disclosure of the hearing is excluded or when it may occur: for the sake of morality, state security, public order and for the protection of the private life of the parties or other important private interest. This is also a constitutional standard, not less than a rule. She is the guardian of human dignity, and human dignity is the foundation of the constitution. You can't rob anyone, not even the defendant, who's taking advantage of the presumption of innocence, of dignity. I'm not talking about the victim anymore. The Minister has given examples... Of course, we know that. That's where my questions came from. In cases of rape, the parties are afraid, especially women, of this public hearing, they are ashamed, they do not want to bring up these cases and relive it all. The legal situation has been changed, the procedural situation has been changed and this is being pursued by the public at the moment. The victim under these new rules has nothing to say. If it was here that the prosecutor and the victim wanted it, I'd still be wondering, even though it's a break with the rule... And here's the victim, so to speak, we're putting it aside. I understand that crimes against sexuality from the point of view of criminal law, the special part... sexuality is a good protected law, just like any other. And you're presenting this... I get it. There are various important interests, state interests, property, economic turnover, etc. But there are also specific interests in the context of human dignity, in the context of maintaining the intimacy of the victim, often the child, which was the subject of Yes, it's the subject of a pedophile's action. Ladies and gentlemen, the trial, as the Supreme Court says, also includes explanations of the defendant. We have a situation a little strange, as Professor Osiatyński said. One might wonder whether to give explanations to the accused of higher rank, as it is in the American system. There, the defendant under oath testifys and is responsible separately for making false statements if it turns out he didn't say the truth. You're welcome, but even if it's not there... It's not as if the defendant is telling the truth. [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] I'm just at the beginning of my argument... [[I'm afraid so.]] In that case, I'd like an extra five minutes. Well, you'd like to talk more about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u111	I don't doubt it, but we have to stick to the time. Now I'm asking Senator Bobka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The arguments that have been made here by the Ministry, but also by the applicants, are, I think, for most of us, regardless of which side of the room we are sitting on, to a large extent convincing. We have a problem with the justice system in Poland. Renewing trust in justice is one of the most important tasks facing not only the current government or the ruling faction, the party, but all of us as citizens. However, this does not change the fact that some of the provisions or proposals appearing in this law raise doubts and lead to discussion. I'm not gonna speak because it's outside my jurisdiction, about the criminal procedure and the issues that dominate this discussion, and I'm gonna step down from the field to the specialists. However, I would like to focus for a moment on the proposal to amend the doctor's and dentist's profession law and on the extremely sensitive issue of medical confidentiality. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the profession of doctor in our culture, civilization in general takes a special place. Many elements consist of this particular position of your doctor. One of them is the law and the duty of secrecy. It's the law, and it's the duty to have a very long tradition. I don't want to use some very high-level or academic arguments, but it's worth recalling the Hippocratic oath. It was created in the fourth century before the birth of Christ, but its text perfectly shows how the Greek tradition, the pagan tradition, can be said: Greek She met with the Christian tradition, was positively assimilated by it and went into our European culture for good, it is one of the principles of this culture. I'm going to quote a few notes from this short vow; I'm going to encourage you to reach for the text. The doctor swears: I will never, on request, give a killer remedy to any woman who has a miscarriage. It was written in the fourth century B.C.E. Today, when there is a discussion about European values, it is worth remembering and appealing to that. Our political formation is very strongly referring to this tradition, and since so, we should also take into account in a special way the subsequent wording of the oath, namely: anything in the course of treatment or outside of treatment in people's lives I will see or hear what cannot be revealed, I will be silent about it, for a sacred secret having it. So the question of medical secrecy in the pagan world was even an adjective of holiness. After two and a half thousand years, it seems that this record somehow worked out. And it is a very important part of our culture. But in this proposal... I do not want to say that this principle is brutally violated or abolished, but it is in some sense challenged or under discussion and is limited to some extent for reasons that are not overly convincing to me, with all due respect to the Minister. I would like to ask the question: what is the situation of doctors today? Do doctors have excessive and far-reaching freedom of action or are they under increasing regulatory pressure and feel more and more at risk of being brought to justice at any time with the charge of making at least mistakes in the art? This leads today to situations in which a doctor who is on the street and sees a man who has fallen... According to normal reflexes, according to medical obligation, he should save those who have fallen and are in a life-threatening state. Actually, it's reasonable for him to do so, and the state of law doesn't want him to touch this patient because he might be in deep trouble. So the situation of doctors is not at all comfortable today. Of course, there are reprehensible cases, etc., but I don't think we should look at the whole thing through the prism of these particular cases. Therefore, here an attempt to move this, one can say, sanctified by tradition, very strongly inscribed, for centuries, not for years, into the tradition of the European principle... I think we should take it with the utmost caution. And that's why I'm basically willing... to sign the amendment that will appear here, an amendment that aims to remove this provision proposed in the bill submitted to the High Senate. And one more point, more general. I really appreciate it, and I think we all appreciate... Here, on our side of the Chamber, we appreciate this with certainty and I am convinced that the state on the other side of the Chamber also appreciates some noble efforts by the current management of the Ministry of Justice to improve the situation precisely as regards justice, compliance with the law, greater mobility, greater efficiency of the authorities. And these are actions that are very, very necessary. But I would point out that when it comes to solutions that increase the powers of executive authority, prosecutorial authority, executive authority, you have to be careful, you have to... I think that's what reason it is: we cannot assume that we are noble, we act in good intentions, so if we extend our powers, it will only serve the cause and serve the citizens. You have to have the back of your head, and you have to assume that there's gonna be another power coming for us in a little while, worse. There are colleagues on the other side, maybe they'll be in charge in a minute and they'll be using these tools. And it can't be ruled out. Although it's hard for some of us to imagine, I can imagine. That power could be even worse than that power that has ruled for the last eight years. And then what if... [[That's impossible.]] Exactly. I say some of my friends can't imagine it. I can still imagine something like that. And then what about the tools that the executives will have? So it seems to me that the legislator, and especially the Senate, should be very careful about these matters. Of course, once again, I would like to stress that I appreciate the right direction and the correct direction of the Ministry of Justice's work as to the substance of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not a specialist in criminal law, nor am I... I have no knowledge, certainly not enough, of different legal systems in European countries. But the proposed amendment, even after a brief reading of it, raises doubts, because in a very clear way, one can say, marks the supremacy of the prosecutor, including the Attorney General, in the criminal trial. I mean... I'm not gonna get very divorced because I'm kind of repeating what's already been said. I mean two provisions: first, the article. 360, which refers to the fact that if the prosecutor objects to the exclusion of disclosure, the hearing is open and, secondly, may be a less significant provision of the Article. 523. It would seem that this is a small change, the sentence about the deletion is divided into two sentences. The second sentence after the amendment reads: "Cassation cannot be brought solely because of the disproportionateness of the penalty.' However, this is because §1a is introduced, which says that the restrictions in question, and thus relating to the lodging of the cassation solely because of the disproportionateness of the penalty, do not apply to the cassation brought by the Attorney General. This actually has 2 meanings, symbolic meaning and practical meaning. The symbolic meaning is this: the court at trial in its building, that is, in court, is not the host of the trial. This is a very bad and wrong signal, even if not used or rarely used. But you can guess. - Yeah. - Yeah, I guess so, and I don't trust you very much. That provision may be applied selectively and in a manner favourable to the prosecutor. Because in the presence of the prosecutor's disenfranchise, e.g. Some witnesses may be more restrained in their testimony... For various reasons It's self-conscious, because of being in the press and for a variety of reasons. So that these changes are simply worthy of being condemned in general and in particular to be rejected, because that is what we should be able to afford. I would also like to refer to what my predecessor, Senator Bobko, said, namely the changes in medical confidentiality. The Minister bravely and, so to speak, with dangerous eyes he opposed when answering the allegations contained in the questions concerning this problem. But it seems to me that the position of the Bureau of the Chief Medical Council on this matter is very clear and transparent. I didn't really understand the point, because actually these changes don't seem very big. However, the opinion of the Bureau of the General Medical Council makes it very clear that this is a short and clear statement: "The solution to opening the unrestricted access of loved ones to information currently protected by medical confidentiality" is the opposition. The possibility of identifying persons entitled to access the information was... The legislator considered persons close to the patient to be unauthorised by law to have access to information about his or her health during the life of this patient. The opinion further points out that the patient often wants to keep some information about his or her health in secret, in particular intimate information, in front of his/her loved ones. The Council notes that, in some cases, such disclosure may be an act that undermines the good name of the deceased. Furthermore, it also stresses a practical aspect of this issue, namely that the proposed solution provides for the right of each of the loved ones to consent, subject to the possibility of blocking this disclosure with one voice of opposition by another loved one. This means both the possibility of manipulation and the possibility of a case in this case, because there is no obligation to determine the number of loved ones and to notify them of any such consent or opposition. The objection expressed in advance blocks this possibility. It seems to me that the opinion of the Bureau of the General Medical Council shows quite clearly that this provision In addition to the issues of principle, tradition and history It is also dangerous and undesirable. Therefore, our motion to reject the bill seems to me to be fully justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now speak to Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The matter that we are considering today is indeed very important, because it is about respecting certain fundamentals, which is also presented historically by Senator Professor Bobko, on the one hand, about medical confidentiality and on the other hand about the proper conduct of criminal proceedings. It seems that the existing legal solutions have properly established a certain balance here. Art. 180 §2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of exemption from this medical confidentiality when it comes to the most serious cases, and there is no other evidence that would allow the investigation of the truth. I think we're going too far, thinking that protecting the good that the patient's right to keep a secret about his illness... This mystery is a beautiful name. .. medical confidentiality. But she's not a doctor's privilege. She is fulfilling the doctor's obligation to the patient, that must be remembered. She is averted at the time of the patient's death, provided that the closest person agrees to the disclosure by the doctor of the information he has taken by treating the patient. Well, I think it's too far-reaching a step, that's not to consider the will of this patient who's already dead. We can't create any presumption here... If someone didn't object As for the transplant of his organs after his death, it is a presumption that he has given his consent. Professor Mącior once called it a statutory fraud; the law actually accepts such a presumption. Well, they were adopted on the transplant issue. But here this kind of breach seems to me to be going too far. On the issue of regulation in other countries, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is necessary to distinguish Mr Ziobro referred here to the French regulations, and so did Mr. First of all, access to medical records. There are regulations that allow this access in a broad way. Even the patient rights bill gives you that access too. Secondly, the doctor's obligation to testify, or exemption from the obligation of medical secrecy. These regulations are restrictive, you can say, in the whole world, also in French law. Art. 226 §13 of the Penal Code even states that it is a crime if the doctor breaks this mystery. Paragraph 14 provides for certain exceptions to this rule. This case once had its finale at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in the famous Plon v France case related to the publication of memories of the doctor who treated President Mitterrand. He revealed that Mitterrand suffered from cancer at the time of his first election as president, and when there was a second election, the disease was advanced. And, ladies and gentlemen, the tribunal has expressed the position of French law, which clearly shows that this mystery is contained, is protected. By criminal penalties in the event of a breach. That's why I'd be very careful. I am even opposed to such a breach, especially since the regulations are very imperfect, which say that if one of the closest members of the deceased objects, then the doctor cannot be released from this mystery. Ladies and gentlemen, how do we determine this? Will there be an objection, or will there not be an objection... Similar solutions would have to be introduced here as in the civil procedure in the case of succession proceedings. It is there that if someone makes a claim to claim an inheritance, it must indicate all other participants who are potentially able to inherit. A similar regulation would have to be introduced here. If one of the family members consents, he is also obliged to identify all other family members who are understood to be the closest ones who can express such consent in order to express themselves. Objection of even one of them results in the fact that you can't question a doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why I am critical of this and I am proposing an amendment to eliminate this. The second important issue is the involvement of the prosecutor and his decisive opinion on whether or not the hearing is to be public. Of course, it is incompatible with the fundamental principles of the process, where the court is, as it is said, a dominus litis, the master of the process, and it is to decide whether specific evidence requests are admissible or dismissed. So is the transparency of the hearing. Of course, this is also the principle expressed in the article. 6 The European Convention on Human Rights, it is a kind of sanctity, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to make a prosecutor of some demiurge who stands even above the court and decides whether the trial is to be open or not. There is some kind of absurdity and denial of what has been a tradition of the judiciary for centuries. In order not to stop just criticizing, because, of course, there are also the advantages that I sign up for, for example, the extension of these powers to social organizations, I mean the participation of their representatives in the proceedings. Indeed, it is in the context of greater judicial scrutiny that society deserves recognition. Except, ladies and gentlemen, in every case, you have to choose the right measures. I propose to the Ministry other measures that will not raise doubts. A rule like that can be introduced. If there is a decision as to whether there is to be a secret hearing or whether there is to be a public hearing, a complaint may be made against a court order in this regard. I'm asking you why there's no such thing. If the court is hiding behind a security screen, I think it raises suspicion as a defender of its objectivity. In such a situation, I often file a motion to dismiss the court. But, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as defenders, we are helpless, because there is no complaint at the court's order to refuse exclusion. I propose that the Ministry amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, which gives the right to file a complaint against the decision to refuse the exclusion of a court which exists under a civil procedure, and it is not known why it does not exist in a criminal procedure, although it is a much greater good than in a civil trial. Let us introduce, ladies and gentlemen, to a wider extent, because at this moment almost this has been eliminated, the participation of jurors in the proceedings. This was because at one time the procedure was changed and, at the moment, most of the cases were adjudicated by judges on a one-man basis. This is to the detriment of the justice system, because jurors, although they are not lawyers, often with their life experience and wisdom can support the judge, and it is more difficult to influence 3 people if the composition is 3-person, or 1 professional and 2 jurors, than with 1 person. All these are instruments that I propose to introduce. Then our procedure will certainly be much better and easier to investigate the truth. Finally, let us make of this element, which is also the pillar of every procedure, i.e. a lawyer, a true participant in the proceedings, not a boy to be beaten, as the procedure has now done, because the possibility of punishing the lawyer with penalties has been introduced, ma'am, up to 5 thousand PLN. The effect is that right now we have mostly young lawyers, because 70% lawyers are people with an internship less than 5 years who are afraid of court. And there are situations where the court threatens them by applying such a measure, making them pay 2 or 5 thousand zlotys. It won't scare me, because I wasn't afraid of worse things in the commune, but these young people are scared, and they're not even surprised. It cannot be that a human rights defender must defend himself against the temptations of the justice system in order to limit his proper role in getting to the truth, because that should be the role of a lawyer. Therefore, as I say, I am making amendments to these two regulations in the face of a critical attitude, and at the same time I am proposing certain solutions which seem to me to be life-like and which result from my more than 30 years of practice. Such solutions, sometimes even a return to what used to be, through the introduction of wider jury formations, can heal the situation in the justice system. The point is that it is not as recent as it was that the Strasbourg Court ruled that Poland systematically infringes the right to obtain a judgment within a reasonable period of time. It was about Rutkowski last July. As far as I know, the Ministry is also taking some kind of remedia, so that, for example, the national complaint of late proceedings is finally effective with us, and not just a baroque ornament of our procedure, which does not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that as far as the general objective of this law is concerned, i.e. To heal certain problems with court proceedings, I think he's good. Indeed, in Poland we have a problem with the judiciary, with the chronicity of the processes, with their opaqueness, with the lack of transparency, so everything that serves to eliminate any pathological phenomena related to the justice system should be commended and simply implemented. There aren't any kind of attempts to challenge the first ones... actually art. 1. Here, I fully agree with the ministry's intentions. My doubts, as well as some of my previous speakers, aroused the article. 2 and 3, that is, those articles that concern medical confidentiality. And for the sake of clarity, I am making an amendment which aims to repeal both of these articles, Article. Two and three laws. Now I will try to explain, above all, to the Minister, why I am making such an amendment. Well, let's make two distinctions. The first point is medical records. The provisions relating to the disclosure and sharing of medical records are relatively detailed in the law; we are, of course, talking about the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson. This procedure is quite detailed, it is known to whom this documentation can be made available, among others. also some of the loved ones, namely the heirs. But little of this, in addition to the fact that it is said who the heirs are, it is also advisable that they are under the obligation to identify the person who will then apply before the voivodship committee to decide on medical events, because they are to delegate their representative. This obligation is incumbent upon a group of interested persons. Yet, as we read in the literature, despite the existence of an implementing regulation with regard to the making available of documentation, the delegation to that Regulation is included in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 There are problems, and on some matters the Supreme Court must pronounce... excuse me, Supreme Administrative Court. The question is, what are the problems if we introduce the two provisions proposed in the bill? There is, firstly, no implementing regulation, and secondly, the scope of the information provided is much larger, because the medical confidentiality is covered not only by the information contained in the medical records, but also by the information that the doctor has provided. will take in relation to the treatment of the person. And the question is this: what can we achieve by introducing such a vague provision, without an implementing regulation, without indicating who will be responsible for the various stages of the exercise of the powers which are laid down in that Law, in those 2 provisions, in Article. Two and three? Because I don't know, Minister, you didn't explain it to me. If anyone close to you can block the possibility of sharing information protected by medical confidentiality about the deceased, the question is who will be responsible for identifying and seeking those loved ones. Will it be the responsibility of a loved one who will be the first to apply for such information protected by medical confidentiality, or will it be the responsibility of a hospital to make such information available? Who's gonna be responsible for this? Because that's not in the bill. Of course, such things should be included in the Act, and if not already in the text of the Act, at least in the Implementing Regulation, where a clear procedure should be specified. These are very sensitive issues, they are also regulated in the Constitution, perhaps in the article. 51nd Constitution. No implementing regulations, no procedure in the bill... Well, I'll admit, I'm not exactly convinced by the minister's answer that it's necessary that such a way of sharing information about the deceased is necessary. I can still understand that in the case of a procedure before the voivodship committee for ruling on medical events, it is necessary. Of course. But it's already regulated in the bill. So the question is, why else? Why should loved ones learn about illnesses or other intimate details of the life of a person who has died, and for what purpose? For criminal proceedings? Let's keep these two things out of the way. Senator Cichoń has just explained how this can be done in criminal proceedings, there is an appropriate provision for this. All the more reason why it was possible. If we really want to achieve this goal Just complete the provision in the patient's consent law to share information covered by medical confidentiality with words: both during life and after death. Perhaps it would be enough to add two words. Why wasn't it done? Why are we doing this now, so to speak, bypassing, why are we introducing imprecise and conflict-provoking laws? Well, if something isn't settled in the law, it's gonna give rise to conflict. I am no longer talking about the fact that, in the case of much narrower matters, We're talking about medical records. . and as legally stabilised by establishing the procedure in the Regulation, these conflicts also arise. In fact, these 2 provisions of Article. 2 and 3 put it, so to speak, on the mine the entire medical community, because it is not known how it will be carried out. I've already told you about purpose. Therefore, Minister, High Izbo, I submitted this request. Perhaps it will be possible to return to the matter, but only when those who make this provision or the Ministry find that he is needed will they explain why he is needed And they're gonna prove it. And above all, they're gonna write it down in detail so that it doesn't give rise to any doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. And now Mr. Senator Zientarski It's a second time, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will return to the thought which came here, namely the question of breaking the rule that this court is the host, the master of the proceedings, as Senator Cichoń also referred to here. You've tried to convince us that this is also happening now, citing the consensus of the court. Well, Minister, this is another total misunderstanding. This is different... Certain conditions must be fulfilled in order for a judgment to be given. In the case of consensus, there is no possibility that the court will first issue the decision and then there is agreement. The other way around. There must be agreement between the prosecutor and the victim, and only then will the court give its ruling. This is a completely different situation. In the meantime, in a situation where there's a decision to exclude disclosure and there's not even... If at least, as we say, there was a possibility of cancellation... This is, of course, criticised by the Supreme Court. Why? The court's actually judging. There is no empirical study that would indicate that this type of practice was abused. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not by chance these 2 provisions, namely Article. 357 and 360, are now being amended, and Mr Borusewicz spoke about it, and the association "Iustitia" also draws attention to it. Art. 357, obliging the court to grant permission to record a hearing by media representatives without any additional conditions... In practice, the proposed provision excludes the decision of the court in this regard. The attention of the media very often or, above all, the case is returned to the public, so in the event of their transmission through the media there may be a very significant violation of the personal property of the participants in the proceedings, which the court will not be able to prevent, particularly in connection with I stress this connection. With no possibility to exclude the transparency of the hearing. Here's the situation, here's the show. Ladies and gentlemen, this relationship is evident. And he's noticed by the legal community. Well, that can't be right. As I said in the first part, it primarily violates the dignity of man and then, of course, all personal goods associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing to do with the court's interests. The court is increasingly used to recording in civil proceedings. There's already recorded proceedings, there's parties in the criminal, and there's this social representative... Ladies and gentlemen, this will clearly prolong the procedure, because, above all, there is no regulation that says who can be a representative of social organisations, which can actually also be a representative of social organisations. This is said by the Supreme Court, a participant in the pending proceedings. It can even be said that for the purposes of the procedure, such an organization can be called into a few persons, come forward and act in a different role. I'm not talking about returning the file to the D.A.'s office for six months. It also prolongs the procedure, ma'am, but we are being punished for being slow, for being long-lasting. And that is the weakness resulting, of course, also from the wrong procedures, because there was no restoration of assesura in the previous term. So this will undoubtedly affect the speed of action. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are certain principles and principles that have been mentioned here not only on the one side of the room. It can't be that the D.A. is hosting, because he's in the public interest anyway. That's the assumption... The D.A.'s suing, he's suing, but he doesn't decide for the court. It's a court decision. At both the stage of judicial proceedings and preparatory proceedings, as well as in the course of arrest proceedings. And this principle cannot be changed at all. It is a misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we do not understand the institution of transparency. We understand perfectly. We understand perfectly. I think it's the other side, the current power seems to have a problem with that. Trouble, because there are big words here... The Minister said this: secrecy is the cover of tyranny. What's going on today, ladies and gentlemen? Mr. Prosecutor Piotrowicz invited the media from the session of the subcommittee dealing with the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, what is it? And just now Minister Ziobro said something here, which is a clear matter that all matters relating to parliamentaryism should be made public. Of course, I am not talking about matters of state security where something needs to be classified, but about creating a law. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see who's here... how is publicity to be understood. Well, there's a violation of transparency. And in court? The point of the court is to balance this balance. That was also mentioned by Senator Counselor Silence. Because he, as a long-standing practice lawyer, also understands what the interests of the accused, often legitimate, means the interests of the victim, means. For we lawyers also join on the other side, i.e. We represent the victims as prosecutors of the meal. We don't just have counseling experiences, we also have prosecutorial experiences. And we know what that means. Why is it that lawyers are entrusted with the role of second-hand prosecutor? Because there's limited trust in the prosecutor's office, because it's better to help that public prosecutor. We have these experiences and we know that the interests of the various parties should be guaranteed in the context of intimacy, in the context of the protection of private life and the important private interest of each party. That's what we're fighting for. Therefore, there is absolutely no agreement to this amendment. Thank you very much. [[You said an hour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, I'm taking part in this discussion a little late because we're back from the Health Committee's meeting. Unfortunately, this bill raises a lot of controversy, but the most important thing is to fight for the empowerment of a patient that we have been fighting for many years, for the 1990s, and this law reverses everything, and the patient is the subject again. Why? If we take a sick person to a hospital, he fills in the records and signs who is entitled to be informed of his or her health during life and after death. If he doesn't wish to inform his family about his condition after his death... this bill is abolishing it, which means the patient is no longer subjective, but objectified. I completely disagree with that. There are very different situations. Not every sick person wants his immediate family to know about his health and, above all, who he is. There are all kinds of situations now. And gender change, and genetic diseases. The sick may not wish for it. That is why I would like to join the amendments of both Senator Cichoń and Senator Czerwinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. I take it you're signing these amendments? [[You're welcome.]] Good. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Dowhan made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the senators Borusewicz, Cichoń, Czerwiński and Stanisławek. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 215 and the report of the committee In print No 215 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u124	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I have the honour to present to you a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration held on 24 June 2016. The meeting was chaired by Professor Kazimierz Wind. It concerned the examination of the Law on the amendment of the Law on the system of education and certain other laws. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of National Education, Mr Maciej Kopeć and his colleagues. And now I'm moving on to the report. The bill submitted is a change of education law expected by pupils, teachers, parents, school directors and local authorities. These expectations were formulated during ministerial and voivodship debates. The key point that has been introduced in the Act is to resign from the primary school as a compulsory external examination in grade VI from the 2016-2017 school year. From 2017 to 2018 the Central Examination Board will make available diagnostic tests to schools, from which they will be able to benefit in order to assess the level of knowledge and skills of pupils starting the next stage of education. Junior high school. Diagnostic tests will be prepared in the same range as the one currently carried out in grade VI of primary school. This will allow schools that decide to carry out a diagnosis using tools prepared by the Central Examination Board to measure the effectiveness of teaching through an educational analysis of added value. As regards the changes arising from the expectations of pupils and graduates of upper secondary education, from 2017 persons taking the Matura exam and the qualification examination will have the opportunity to appeal the result of the examination of the sum of points from the written part of the Matura exam and the part of the written examination confirming qualifications in the profession to the College of Examination Arbitration, consisting of experienced examiners and experts specialising in the field of science. In addition, as early as 2015/2016, those who pass the Matura exam and the qualification exam will be able to photograph them during their examination work. There has also been a clarification of the provisions that if a student or a graduate asks for the sum of the points from the examination or the examination certifying the qualification in the profession, the director of the district examination commission will designate for that verification a different examiner than the one who checked and evaluated the examination work. The next amendment concerns textbooks and materials for disabled students. In this regard, the provision states that the special grant for the following school year will be reimbursed for the purchase of textbooks, educational and training materials for pupils with disabilities when the decision on the need for special education is taken after 30 September. In addition, for students with disabilities having a decision on the need for special training, it will be possible to finance the purchase of equipment or software on purpose, which will enable electronic reading of the books, educational materials and training materials purchased. As regards textbooks and materials for a given modern foreign language, if necessary... if you need textbooks other than those purchased from a special grant in previous years, the school authority will be able to purchase missing textbooks or educational materials to teach that foreign language in order to enable students to learn at the appropriate level. The cost of purchasing these textbooks or educational materials will be reimbursed by means of a targeted grant to the school for the following year. The amount of the refund will not exceed 25 PLN per pupil and will be increased by an appropriate indicator in the case of a disabled student. The next amendment concerns the clarification of the catalogue of local government units obliged to provide additional, free learning of Polish language to students coming from abroad. Another amendment concerns the rules for granting and clearing grants paid from the budget of local government units to kindergartens, schools and other educational establishments. Precisely indicated, among others. the method of calculating the amount of the grant. There has been a clarification of the provisions on subsidising kindergartens, other forms of pre-school education, schools, non-public and public institutions conducted by legal persons other than self-government units and individuals. A high level of generality of current rules on the subsidising of kindergartens and other forms of education, schools and institutions from local government budgets led to interpretational doubts, resulting in uneven application of the rules at national level. The need for clarification, harmonisation of legislation in this area is reported by regional authorities, accounting chambers and the Supreme Audit Chamber, as well as by preschoolers, other forms of preschool education, schools and other educational establishments which are not local self-government units. The following changes will be made within the framework of the proposed provisions on grants from local government budgets: the introduction of a dictionary of concepts, including. concepts of the nearest municipality, the nearest district, the nearest voivodeship; definition of the concept of current expenditure; clarification and adaptation of the rules on the settlement between municipalities in respect of the cost of grants or pre-school education where the child benefits from pre-school education in the municipality of which he is not a resident. The project submitted also includes changes in the field of artistic education. It establishes the extinction of librarian schools and cultural animators as of 1 September 2018. Given the social importance of adequate preparation of people qualified to carry out cultural dissemination activities, it seems appropriate that education in the professions of librarian and cultural animator should only be carried out in higher education. Many amendments to the draft law were tabled in the course of the Parliament's work, some of which were of a sequencing and legislative nature, and some of which were substantive. The most important ones are: the curator's opinion on education sheets for schools and institutions in respect of their legality, framework teaching plans, qualifications of teachers; changes in the composition of the competition committee to the head of the school institution. The project assumes that it will be three representatives of the lead authority and the pedagogical supervisor, two representatives of the parent council and the pedagogical council and one representative of the trade union organisations within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council Act. The amendment also concerns the evaluation of the work of the school principal. It will be carried out by the pedagogical supervisor in consultation with the host body. Another amendment concerns the clarification of the rules on the granting of public powers to non-public artistic schools. In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, the law does not raise any legislative objections, but merely editorial questions. The Commission proposes that the law be passed without amendment. At the joint meeting of the committee 16 senators voted, 12 were in favour, 4 against, no one abstained. High Izbo, please accept the bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws reached the Senate of the 20th... The Marshal of the Sejm handed her over to the Senate, to the Marshal of the Senate on 23 June, and then, on 24 June, on Friday, the committee's deliberations. No opinion of the legislator, little time to read the amendment to the Education Act This law is 94 pages long and causes... It was difficult to know in detail, after the changes that took place in the Seym, about this law. The Minister tried to give us as much information as possible, but... Today, we are proceeding over this bill. As the rapporteur said, amendments to the bill were tabled during the procedure in the Sejm. Some of the amendments tabled by Members were quite fundamental, and went beyond the Government's submission of this amendment. This includes, above all, increasing the role of guardian, limiting the role of self-government... In the committee there was a consultation that they were conducted with the local government They were carried out at the stage of the government project and then there were major changes in the project. Therefore, at this point in time, the application to reject the law was justified. What has changed since Friday about the minority's motion to reject the bill? Well, after examining these changes in the bill, you can say that she has also good sides, among others. This is what the senator was talking about when it comes to the College of Examination Arbitration, because it's important that we appeal, because often such cases on the exams were, there were doubts, there were doubts about the number of points, their counting, at the moment it's possible to take photographs... These are important and important elements. But also the changes I was talking about regarding the Director's competition, the Director's evaluation, the appointment of the Director's position, the approval of the organisational sheets... Of course, the role of the curator is growing in all this, and let us remember that the governing body is mostly local governments, and the role of the local government cannot be limited to financial matters only, and the local government also wants to influence education in its commune. In addition, we now have the completion of the exam in primary school after class VI, from next year these exams, externally evaluated, are no longer to take place. And everything could still be understood, but given that these changes to the bill were already very much, it is another very big amendment of the bill, I remind you: 94 pages... One might still wonder if we could talk about this further, but after the Minister's speech in Toruń... On Monday, Mrs Anna Zalewska, as I recall, announced very important, fundamental changes. How's he doing, for example? the completion of the exam after class VI... What's the point of this year's next shift, the school year 2017/2018 is to close down the middle school? The Minister announced that this bill would be prepared in September, October, in a few months. So another big, big change. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after these announcements for us there is no doubt that we cannot proceed like this, we will choose something, something will change here, something will be improved... It is so much that some of these changes are already difficult to read what this law is about, and here we have announced a further, very serious, fundamental amendment of the law. Other issues will probably be raised in the discussion, and now I just want to confirm once again that the minority proposal is to reject the law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u128	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you, Senator rapporteur. As I recall, this is the Senator's first speech, so I'm going to try to ask short, concise and simple questions. I remember my debut a few years ago, so... Senator, you told me about this. And we're in agreement with that. - concerning the possibility of appealing against results, counting points, etc. Tell me if you've talked to the committee about how long the whole process will last, if the student cancels, if the entire cycle is exhausted, the levels, all appeals... That's the first question. Second question. You said it was essential to change the opinion on the organizational sheet by the probation officer. My question is, if the probation officer gives a negative opinion, is the project approved or not? Have you talked about this? And third, last question. You said that the bill, which you are rapporteur, is long-awaited and welcomed by the teaching environments and educational environments. Would you mind telling me what you're saying? Because I actually read other opinions about the bill's draft, certainly parts of it, not all of it, but a lot of it. So I'd like to know why the senator... Based on what the Minister said at the committee meeting, are these your personal statements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u129	Maybe I'll start with the last question about why it's a long-awaited change. First of all, it is a change expected by the school environment, both teachers and pupils and parents, as regards the part concerning, for example, the appeal against the results of the exams, the part concerning the failure of the test. As a longtime director, I can even argue that this test wasn't really a test. It was just a test of knowledge that didn't give up school work, because when it comes to assessing school work, you have to look at it in the context of different conditions, i.e. the local environment, and what happens at school, what we use working methods, whether we develop and expand competences, whether we run educational projects. In this context, it is possible to look at the evaluation of work. And if it's just a test result... He was often really misinterpreted. And that change was expected. It was unnecessary stress for students, teachers, parents. So much for this expected change. But, of course, it is also about other issues that are very tidy in terms of subsidies, with the fact that we will now finally be able to buy textbooks for students with disabilities. Although the child will be examined in the clinic after 30 September, you will be able to request the purchase of a manual for him. So there are a lot of changes in ordering. Maybe I'll get right to the point. Because it was also a change expected by the environment Opinion of the organisational sheet. As I was saying, I was the director at the time when the supervisory authority consulted him, as well as when he was consulted by the lead authority. I'll make some arguments. First of all, the State is responsible for education policy and this country is responsible On behalf of the state, of course, the voivodships and curators For both the fact that the school's framework curricula are in line with the law and that teachers are properly qualified. The supervisory authority shall, as far as possible, be the authority empowered to carry out such an assessment. The local government, which has a grant, is responsible for running the school, for the safety of the students, so that it is properly equipped. But it's like I said. The supervisory authority is responsible for the conduct of state policy. And it guaranteed Believe me, my sheets were checked by the parole board. There's a legal order. That's what I can say. As far as local governments are concerned, we often see that people who work as head of local governments are not fully qualified as teachers, who have not worked at school and who do not have a full picture I'll tell you what. and competence to check this sheet. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] The next question concerned the appeal process, but this issue was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. I think the Minister will be able to say something about it. [[Mr. Marshal, may I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u130	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Good. Senator Blackbay again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u131	I'd just like to talk about it... Senator, thank you for this information, but that's not what I asked you, especially as regards the question about the organizational sheet. I didn't ask about the superiority of Christmas over Easter holidays, I asked if an organizational sheet, which will get your parole officer's negative opinion, was a sheet in force or should be corrected. That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u132	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u133	There is no question of a negative assessment of the probation officer's work. The fact that this is the case means that either at school or the framework curriculum needs to be improved, or teachers do not have the right skills to conduct these classes. Issues of non-compliance of the sheet shall be discussed with the Director. It's not like the parole officer writes negative opinions right away. It's the only cases I know. I don't know any other cases. Like I said, the fact that the opinion is negative means that the school cannot function in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u134	Who else? [[Dowhan.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I also have a question for the senator. The senator said that there was a positive opinion of the legislator, while the senator rapporteur of the minority spoke about the lack of an opinion of the legislator. I'd like to ask you to explain why these discrepancies came from. That's my first question. Second question. Has the consultation been carried out? If so, with which organisations and what opinions have been issued? Third question. Why is this happening now that it's vacation time and most of the teachers are resting after a school year, leaving, on vacation and having other classes planned? I'll ask the rest of the questions later. I'm reporting again for the next tour. Now it's three questions, and I'd really like to ask for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u136	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u137	There is a positive opinion, so it was delivered at the committee's meeting with regard to the office. There are some editorial amendments, but I'm not here to introduce them. As regards the second question and the question of consultation, I can say that at the committee meeting there was information that it was a consultation of trade unions, organisations, parents. These are also the guidelines of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Audit Chamber. I think more details, if the senator wants to know so much exactly what kind of organizations these are, you can present the minister. As to why this bill appeared now, although that is probably not a question for me, I will try to say. I'm sure it's a matter of appealing from the SATs. I think the fifth is affected by the results, so if we approve this law today, the seniors will already be able to photograph their works and have insights, and if not, we will extend this process. I think this is the most important thing. And teachers don't mind that there are holidays, because during the holidays they work often too, Mr. Senator, and the fact that even if the organizational sheets may be sent to the pedagogical supervisor will also make it very easy for us to work as directors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u138	Thank you. Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. According to the bill, Senator, the curator will be a person who is actually a first-rate person, also in the education process. So what about the autonomy of school heads? Is it gonna be like they're gonna have to consult with the school board on every case? If so, will it not force the need to increase the administration, increase the number of administrative staff in the curatorium?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u140	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u141	Mrs. Senator, when it comes to the fact that the curator is, you can say, head in the voivodeship, for the voivodeship, of course, and he runs schools, because the Ministry is issuing regulations and preparing a programme of our activities and activities of schools... Or with every case? As far as sheets are concerned, these are framework teaching plans, regulations, qualifications of teachers. If there are annexes to the sheet... Because the sheet is the kind of document we're based on. The school's work starts on 1 September, but during the year there are annexes to the sheet, connected with, for example, the school's dismissals. And with such a case, which is an annex, the director will have to ask the parole officer to approve this change, but of course not with every case. There's no need for him to come forward with every case. The managing authority will also run administrative schools. About the question... Is there anything else? Maybe I didn't hear the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u142	I'll just explain what I mean. Now the teachers are complaining that there is too much administrative work, that they are sitting on it, and that there will be more. Therefore, my question is whether the administration in the parole board will have to increase in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u143	I don't think the administration will have to increase. As I say, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, but I will say from my own experience that there are visitors who had previously conducted evaluations of the school's work, and I think that these visitors will suffice. There will be no unnecessary bureaucracy in this regard, because the sheets have always been prepared, and we are rather trying to reduce bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u144	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u145	Yes, Senator, I have one question. Namely for approval or opinion of organizational sheets by educational curators. Was the matter raised at the committee's meeting about the power of the probation officers? Because there are over 3,000 schools in the Silesian Voivodeship. The probation officer will get 3,000 organisational sheets and will have to review them very quickly, because the principals need to prepare the school year so that it can start on September 1st. Does this mean that curators will work 24 hours a day, do some titanic work, or will these sheets simply be reviewed chronically?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u146	Mr. Senator, this wasn't on the committee, but maybe I'll try to explain it to you. From 1 September we will work on sheets, which are now approved, because the deadline was until 30 April. School heads submitted them to the lead authority and the leading authority approved the school organisational sheets by 30 May. There is also no record of how many people working in the lead bodies, and these sheets, whether they were in the authority, had to be put into supervision and also had to be evaluated. On the contrary, sometimes fewer people work in the host body. I'm not talking about the fact that not all of them are qualified and know the law of education. So don't worry. In the curatoria there are really well prepared visitors and advisors. I'm sure they can handle this process. This was before 2009, if I remember correctly, Minister, and it really worked very well. I remember that time very well. I didn't have to run to the parole board, I consulted everything, no one gave me a negative opinion. I think it's just a matter of administration and a good attitude of officials on the subject. And we're all working to make this school work its best. The lead authority had no bad intentions in this matter, and the pedagogical supervisor will not have bad intentions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u147	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! Senator! To the last sentence you said. That schools will work better That's one point. I, too, am 100% sure that if school heads run to a curator with opinions on organizational projects, they will be better performing and schools will work better. Now, in agreement with your thesis, I'd like to ask you what you said. Senator, legal opinion on the bill. During the parliamentary work, this change was made concerning the involvement of the curator in the approval or opinion of organisational projects. According to the Sejm's office, this is against the law, in short. Did you discuss this legal issue at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u149	This thread was not discussed, it was not discussed. This is the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u150	No. Okay, good. And now two questions, one I've already gotten the answer to. Mrs. Senator, as far as the legal issue is concerned, the kind of praise you're giving to your parole officer... You said it guaranteed me a better legal order. I understand he's saying this... [[Educational...]] ...you, on the basis of your experience, I don't know, in your community or in your district... [[Customs.]] In other words, the local authorities did not comply with the legal obligation for organisational sheets, i.e. they approved non-legal sheets. [[I didn't say that.]] Let me ask you something. [[Please.]] Here's my question. It's the sheet. Because I'm very interested. Then who prepared these sheets, according to your experience? Is it a local authority or a school principal? As far as I know, you're the principal. I'm almost done. One more question. Now you've told me... I'd ask for an explanation here, too, because the bill doesn't exactly talk about it. You have touched on a very interesting topic, and I quote to you: that in connection with the introduction of this very good law, I believe in quotes The municipalities will now administer schools, and the education curator will manage them. Would you mind explaining if I misunderstood the speech or if I misunderstood it? What's the relationship gonna be like now? Who's actually gonna run the school, and who's gonna administer it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u151	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u152	The organisation sheet shall be prepared by the principal of the school and the managing authority shall be approved. [[The director doesn't know the rules.]] [[Okay, Mr. Senator.]] But I didn't say the lead organs didn't approve. I think it's the senator. I never said that. I said that the organs were approved and that they would also be approved by the probation officers. As regards administration, the managing authority now also administers the spending of funds that come from educational subsidies. This is the administration. And pedagogical supervision was responsible for educational law, for the implementation of framework teaching plans in accordance with regulations, for the qualification of teachers, for the implementation of educational projects, for the selection of methods, for forms of teaching, if such evaluations have been carried out. This was the responsibility of pedagogical supervision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u153	Thank you. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u154	Thank you. Mrs. Senator, you mentioned organizations that were involved in the consultation. I'd love to hear some examples of opinions that have come in. If you can tell us about them... And I have the following question. Every reform, every change, whether it is good or bad, is likely cost-effective. Has the Ministry provided for the costs associated with the amendment of the law discussed here, and are they counted? Is this money secured? And if so, where is our country's budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u155	The costs weren't discussed at the committee meeting, so I think the minister here... But I don't see the basis for all of this being cost-related. And the question is... As I said, these were the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Audit Chamber, I'm sure they consulted it. trade unions and other organisations. And more will be said to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u156	Thank you. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u157	I have a statement from Mr Sławomir Broniarz, President of the Polish Teachers' Association. I would like to mention a passage here: On Monday, we were dealing with the Minister's festival, but with the number of words she said, there was not an adequate amount of concrete. The only concrete fact is that we are returning to the Education System Act of 1961, which is the construction period of a thousand schools for the millennium of the Polish state, with its eight-class elementary school and four-year high school. However, what we're going to teach is more dangerous than the school system. I fear that this return to the times of the Polish People's Republic is not only formal, but also programmed, so we return to top-down control, political supervision, one program, one manual and one interpretation of events. Nor do they convince MEN that teachers will not lose their jobs. Unemployment is particularly threatened by educators working in middle school. How will the senator respond to those words of the president?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u158	Senator, these were mostly the words spoken after the Minister's speech, so it is difficult for me to refer to them. First of all, I'd have to have this text, then maybe I could analyze it and answer some questions. But I cannot refer now to what the President said after the Minister's speech. That wasn't the subject of the committee either, Senator. I'd really like to answer that, but maybe... [[On break.]] ...at the break. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u159	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u160	Mr. Marshal... It's not glowing. Can you hear me? Mr. Marshal, I, on the other hand... Because the senator... I, of course, believe that this bill is a tragedy of Polish education and I will not change my opinion. I can also say this as the man who dealt with these issues because I was a teacher. But that's not what I'm saying. But I'd like to know my opinion... And it is you who cannot avoid what is the opinion of the Polish Teachers' Association, which, as you know, is a union having its long tradition. So if you can't do it...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u161	I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I'm not ducking. Only what you read here was said after the Minister's speech on Monday. [[It's not about.]] [[That wasn't at the committee meeting.]] [[Okay, I don't want to...]] The point is, how can I relate to what... [[Voice from the room: These are questions.]] If it was an appearance... [[The committee meeting was Friday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u162	Okay, senator will ask you a question, senator will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u163	Good. Well, then I'm gonna say all this in the debate because it's hard for me to... [[There you go.]] I'd like the question to be brief. [[For the benefit of the gathered.]] Tell me, do you think that... why did you tell me that eliminating an exam after primary school to junior high is either an easy one or a result of the expectations of students and teachers? The environment in which I turn thinks exactly the opposite, i.e. We believe that for the first time this change introduced a new opportunity for the independence of pupils. There are cases where a weak teacher, who is very much We all know that. He can justify his presence in school by paying a student 4 or 5. And a simple exam that's been passed by all my grandchildren, which isn't so stressful that it doesn't cause... However, the disciple becomes more mature after his sentence. So what makes you think that eliminating this exam is the result of some kind of consultation? People don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u164	Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u165	Senator, first of all, it's about the exam after class VI, not the exam. I have the right to express that opinion because I ran schools for 22 years. And when there was no test, and when there was a test. That's why I said it. Also, I often attend meetings. Even now as a senator With teachers, with directors, and really everyone is pleased about it. We propose that a similar test be carried out, but in junior high class I, once the educational added value can be studied, because it will give a bigger dimension... It'll be for the benefit of teachers who kind of get a student in junior high because they'll be able to read... [[Excuse me... if there's no middle school, there's no middle school test.]] But let's talk about this bill, Mr. Senator, let's talk about this bill and what the possibility will be. The Central Examination Board will have a set of tests to be used by all schools. Whether it's middle school or upper secondary school It will be possible to carry out such tests as much as possible. So we don't close the road... [[If I may, I'll ask you an additional question. Maybe I don't understand something. After all, the bill wants to get rid of middle school. Yes?]] [[But that's not the bill.]] This isn't the bill, we're not talking about this bill yet. [[Excuse me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u166	You're welcome, Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u167	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you this question Is the provision of this law, which prohibits or prevents the application to the administrative court for the result of the examination, correct? [[Yes. I think...]] Because this is a record that clearly defines... Of course, he's sort of next to the arbitrage board. But is that right? Isn't that a restriction on the right to court?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u168	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u169	No. I think it's the right thing to do. It's not a restriction of the law... There is a committee composed of independent experts and this committee will make sure that, as I say, a view rather towards giving the student a better assessment rather than a worse one, so there will be no need to appeal. The Commission will be composed of experts prepared to perform this function. So that, in my opinion, everything is okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u170	Thank you. Now I wanted to ask the senator a question. The curator receives additional competences, and this is clear, in the assessment of the organisational sheet. Could you remind me, this year, recently, the education bill closed the senator's competition... excuse me, of course, the curators? Have the parole competitions been canceled?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u171	But here, really... The probation officer's competence was the same all the time. Because it cannot be said that if the managing authority approved the sheet, the supervising authority had no insight into the sheet as much as possible. When checking the sheets, they were always checked and controlled in terms of compliance with educational law. It's not like the probation officer's gonna get a lot of authority here all of a sudden, 'cause those privileges were, too, just that he approved the lead organ. But as for the law and the implementation of the curriculum, the competences were still in the hands of the curators... [[Senator Bogdan Borusewicz: I understand...]] And it's up to the parole officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u172	I don't want to argue, but the competence to approve the sheet is the competence that constitutes it. So I think... [[Because...]] ...there's been a change here. And when it comes to competitions, you don't... [[Because the state is responsible for education policy...]] I see. [[...so that's why...]] I get it. I get it. I'm just asking what kind of legal system is being introduced right now. Good. And, as I understand it, the question of curators' competitions, the abolition of these competitions, that was the question. It's rhetorical. Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u173	Thank you. As for my previous question, it was actually the wording that... it doesn't matter if they were referring to the Minister or to someone else, but it would be worth discussing at the committee meeting. However, the president of the union was very clear on this subject. But I'll ask the Minister. Tell me what the national teacher training plan is. What's this? [[What's the plan?]] [[Teacher perfection.]] National teacher improvement plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u174	Although this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, the teacher improvement plan is the guidelines for improving teachers. This is a national plan, based on the improvement plans that we create as school heads. There is a school plan to improve teachers, then there is a plan to improve teachers in local government, then the voivodship creates a plan and creates... But it wasn't on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u175	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u176	Senator, there's probably a reason for this. I couldn't read it in the explanatory memorandum, it was just a description of what was supposed to be there. An increase in the curator's representation in competition committees, in the case of competitions for directors. Are the problems identified today, in the current situation, with the current composition, what will change this solution and what result will be achieved? Because, I understand, this change is going somewhere, isn't it? So I'd ask you to maybe tell me... I'm not a member of this committee. I'm trying to imagine that out of a dozen more people, he's gonna have a probation officer and what's gonna happen. Why don't you tell me what's coming out of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u177	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u178	The balance between the lead authority and the pedagogical supervisory authority will certainly be restored. Because it is currently the case that the lead authority has 3 representatives and the supervisory authority has 2. So that we just restore balance. This was probably the case before 2007. If I am not mistaken, Minister, then there was also a composition of the committee, that there were three representatives. The next argument is that after two parents' representatives and two teachers' representatives... First of all, parents are more socialized. Parents have tried to do this before, and the voices have been raised in this matter. That 2 teachers, I think, is also understandable, because this is also the representation of people who work with the director. So it can be said that the records were back before 2007, but I think they balance very well, so to speak, the composition of this committee. And they socialize her.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u179	Thank you very much. More... Oh, no, I'm sorry. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]] There you go. And Senator Dowhan volunteered, I see.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u180	I would like to ask if representatives of local governments spoke on this matter. Because I remember that change, and I remember the justification. It was done so that the host body would have a real impact on the cast. And now, as I understand it, it's not supposed to have that effect, is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u181	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u182	There was no such discussion at the committee meeting, but I think that this influence... Who should influence the choice of director? It is also not that the voice should mainly have the host body. Like I said, there's a balance right now. There are 3 representatives of the lead authority, 3 representatives of the supervisory authority and 2 representatives of the board and parents. And that guarantees that the director will not be chosen by the host body.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u183	Senator Dowhan. You're welcome. [[I give up the question, Mr. Marshal. I'll ask the Minister.]] Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u184	I have a question that goes beyond what we discussed at the committee meeting. Unlike the Senators of the Platform, I am a member of this committee, and I remember what was said. But using your knowledge and experience, Senator, I would like to ask you: how can one argue such a thesis that, in the context of maintaining a balance between, I will say colloquially, the student's well-being and the teacher's well-being... there is no imbalance in this bill? I ask this in connection with the two articles proposed in it concerning the possibility of photographing works and the appointment of an arbitration panel in general. Isn't that some kind of signal that might be ♪ including the previous one I said ♪ The argument is that the teacher in this law stays And that's the sense of representation of this profession. Demoted?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u185	When it comes to photography... [[There you go.]] Well, before that, the student had an insight, only it took longer, because you had to rewrite, take notes, and now you can photograph it. But he always had the opportunity to gain insight into these works. So it's not like it hasn't happened before. And when it comes to the sense of teachers, here are the lines... [[As you can guess, it's not my question, it's my teacher's.]] Good. How does a teacher feel about that... As I say, there was also a rule that allowed us to look into the work, now we are just speeding up this process, nothing more. There's a committee to appeal to. So that gives the student more opportunities. I think a good teacher shouldn't have any objections or feel bad about it, he should feel like he's a very good teacher... Although there was another statement here today... I think we have very good teachers, and it's just an opportunity... This solution certainly does not go towards a poor assessment of the work of teachers, on the contrary • confirmation of good judgment. As I say, we have very good teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u186	Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u187	Yeah, me, too. Actually, thank you for that question, I've already received some answers... What I'm trying to say is that I still think that education policy should be based on some facts, some data, some premise. Were there any problems with those exams that the senator said were needed to provide students with insights, etc.? Were there any misunderstandings? If so, what was the scale of these misunderstandings? I'm sorry, but what's with the photographs anyway? 'Cause I think something's going on. I don't know what it is, so I'm trying to find out. Has the Ministry received thousands of complaints that, even though there was an insight, it is not entirely? What is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u188	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u189	The procedure so far has greatly prolonged the time... Because you had to type it up, and now you can photograph it. It's about graduation, isn't it? We're talking about the test, Mr. Senator didn't ask about the test, right? I'll get right on it. And when it comes to the results of the SATs, that's the solution that's gonna speed up the process. Because so far, it's taken a lot of time to prescribe work and scores. And now there's gonna be a photograph and there's... So it's gonna be a lot faster. The appeal to the committee is probably 7 days, the appeal process is faster. And yet everyone wants to increase their grade and take photographs to see if these results are good, if you can increase that grade to get into college... So this is about speeding up the process. And as for the test... Mr. Senator asked about the test, didn't he? I think in my first speech I said that this is just a teaching evaluation, you can say, such an indicator of school work, but really not the most important one. Because you have to look at the school as a whole organism, in a certain context. I mean, the environment we work in, and what students are like... Well, you can't compare... Sometimes it compares in local governments: this school has this score and the weaker one. Only no one wonders that the first school works in an environment where students are very good families and parents are educated. In turn, the second school has classes in which there are children from, for example, social assistance communities, children with disability decisions or children with special educational needs. And when the result of a given school came to the local government, the local government saw only one thing, this dry result, but the whole context did not see. And the school runs, as I say, other activities. We develop certain competences, we conduct extracurricular activities, educational projects. We are expanding our knowledge of substance, but, as I say, it is mainly about competence. That's the most important thing. We must prepare for life in civil society. If it is assessed only through tests, it is often harmful to schools. And that's the only issue that's been raised. [[But you... can I ask you a question, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u190	Ask around? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u191	In your introductory statement, you said, among other things, why this matter should be justified. The fact that the school will be able to run this test... [[Test.]] ...this test to be able to study the school level based on added value. And the added value, as you know, the shortcomings you're talking about, removes. She's talking about progress, not... [[Mr. Senator...]] You don't just compare schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u192	Maybe I can explain. In Class VI there was only a test and a result, and the added value was not analyzed. If the junior high school data is now asked to be tested by the Central Examination Board in junior high school, then it will be possible to analyze this is in terms of educational added value. And that'll give you a picture of working with a student. Because at first... [[But that's completely inconsistent.]] Yeah, but that's changing the way things are, 'cause...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u193	Okay, okay... [[The Ministry sees the need to analyze the added value and the middle school eliminates it.]] Mr. Senator, we're not discussing this. I have a question for you, too. It's about taking pictures of seniors. The student gets the right... It's not just a technical issue. Will the teacher also have a similar right? Because I understand that someone who's photographing has some objection to the degree they're getting, right? Will such a right also have a teacher who... [[He's not a party.]] [[The teacher doesn't cancel.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u194	There's a record in the bill that the student is doing it. And that allows him to appeal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u195	Thank you. I got an answer. There are no more questions. Thank you very much, Senator, including the fact that you were also responsible based on your professional knowledge. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] [[Now the minister.]] Minister... [[Voice from the room: What's his name?]] Minister Maciej Kopeć, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome, Minister. If you want to file this bill and justify it, go ahead. If you don't, they'll just be asking you questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to refer to a few elements and to the doubts that arose earlier. As regards the draft government of this law, it was agreed in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission and was accepted there. As far as the various opinion-makers are concerned, they made their comments, but there were a total of 7 such comments on 60 of them. As for the test itself, there was no comment on it. The debate took place in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission, and the draft, in this version, which came to the Sejm, was agreed there. Now for the sixth grade test. The tests may be of a different nature, and this one clearly had above all the diagnostic value, which was on the so-called. entering the middle school, which is, in other words, he had to show the progress he had made at the middle school exam, the way he counted it. effect with the help of EWD, i.e. educational added value, in junior high. In other words, if there is a diagnostic test that will be carried out on the so-called. entrance in middle school and exit, then this condition will be met. If we continue to think about the educational added value... She functions, of course, but also, as the senator said, the question of the test was used in different ways, often very incompetent, to diagnose the work of primary schools. Unfortunately, this inability caused the so-called. The ranking of primary schools, not this purpose, was meant to serve as a test. Moreover, the educational added value itself has many shortcomings, because unlike the PISA tests it does not contain so-called. contextual factors, i.e. there is no key reference there e.g. to the social factor, to the parent, and he is crucial for the analysis of the result or for such full educational added value. As regards the reasons for this change, even in the context of what the Minister in Toruń said, please note that the planned change will take place from 2017/2018, from this school year and will end in 2023, in other words, will be extended over time. So it's not that that statement is kind of losing the meaning of this law, because she, as far as seniors are concerned, is going to have a lot of positive effects for many years. As far as the other issues are concerned... Of course, photography is designed to make it easier for students to appeal. Let us remember that the assessment given by the teacher or the result of the exam is not a decision which would be subject, in such a sense, to the law, only to the action which results from the competence of the teacher and, on the other hand, from the competence of the examiner. What we are talking about, i.e. to make such a change, is indicated by important social considerations, as also by various organisations, e.g. The Independent Student Association called for a lean on verification or verification of the result. This was raised in the mass media, but above all it was due to the control of the Supreme Chamber of Control. Thus, the Supreme Audit Office recommended that the Minister of National Education should allow pupils and their parents, graduates and listeners to submit a reasoned request for verification of the proven and evaluated examination work, as well as the determination of the powers of the district director of the examination commission to determine a new result of the examination when the examination work has resulted in an increase in the number of points, and to issue a new certificate, certificate, diploma. Thus, the study carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed to the errors of examiners and thus the creation of a situation in which the tested person would be sure that there were no defects. The issue of appeal is not a common phenomenon. This obviously only applies to a few of these moments, where the result is In the case of compulsory examination, so on the basis of: passed, failed In the area of 30%, and when we are dealing with these exams, which mainly concern the most besieged directions, i.e. Biology and chemistry. This is why we are talking about this important social factor, when each point determines the availability of higher education institutions, and especially medical courses. It was the most emotional issue there. Now it's a matter of seym amendment. As far as custody is concerned, they have already been, so I want to calm down. I myself served as a guardian of education and I can assure you that the curator of education He can handle the opinion of the organizational sheets. Especially since it's not going to happen since school this year, because, as the senator said, These sheets have already been approved by the lead authorities, i.e. this year this amendment will no longer be relevant. There is also, of course, a matter of vacation. As the rapporteur said, the date of 5 July is of course important because then there will be results, then students will have a chance to verify these results in a simpler way by photographing work. As far as other comments on the probation officer's powers are concerned, ♪ Like I said ♪ It is the restoration of powers that were, that is, the socialisation of this committee, that is, democratisation. Please also pay attention to another aspect. This is a matter of how much the school principal will cooperate with the authorities that operate in the school, in accordance with the Education Act. This is the subject of parents, such an organ is the parent's council, and it is also the pedagogical council. In other words, the director of the school will not only be appointed by the host body, but also by parents and teachers. This is a very important change that is definitely going in the right direction. As far as the competition committee is concerned, I would like to say that this proposal was requested in many debates, at many meetings which were held by the Ministry of National Education. I myself attended dozens of such meetings and such a request was simply raised. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, I would like to point out that the elimination of the provisions concerning the so-called. card hours also reduce bureaucracy, because it was accompanied by a journal in which these hours should have been recorded. There will also be changes in pedagogical supervision, which will reduce bureaucracy. Also, the question of the test itself is a de facto reduction of bureaucracy, because remember that the school principal had to draw up letters, he had to remember the various data that had to be transmitted to the district examination commission, for example. Now this issue will be resolved in this way. With regard to other comments concerning just one textbook, and this comment from the president of the Polish Academy of Sciences, I would like to point out that one textbook has been, so far, our elementalist in classes I.III, and this was the moment when we actually dealt with a monopoly, with a single textbook. This monopoly and this one textbook in the sense of one correct version will be abolished. But when it comes to the project itself, it's comments. The NSA wasn't there. I understand these comments relate to what the Minister said and have nothing to do with the bill we are talking about. As far as the other issues raised here are concerned, I am referring to the discussion of the change, I think that they are not related to the law, so I find it difficult to refer to it at this point. If there are questions, of course I will try to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u197	Thank you, Minister. There'll be questions. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, before I ask you a specific question, if I may ask, and the Minister would be kind... As I understand it, the Minister was gathering the experience from the position of teacher, through the position of curator, to the position of minister, so this baggage of experience the minister has. Minister, if you could answer such a question, not to go into detail, but to say something strategic, I would ask: which of the models in Europe, as regards the role of the state in the case of education, is the minister closer, Finnish or French? I'd just like to ask for such an honest answer. This is not a debate during the election rally. We would like to talk honestly about a very important element, because education and health concern each of us. So if you'd just added your opinion to the nice speech you just had, I'd have a full picture of the Minister when it comes to people in such an important field.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u199	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u200	It's not, of course... Right away, right? [[Yes.]] Mr. Marshal? [[Yes.]] This is not, of course, a question about this law, but I would like to answer it several steps, if that is possible of course. If we looked at the system, for example. improving teachers, we would note that as far as the countries of the old Union are concerned, there is a system that is based on state institutions. In other words, in our country there has been some kind of commercialization of this system that does not exist... She is characteristic for post-communist countries. The second issue that concerns teacher education. Today there are more than 200 entities that have the right to confer teaching powers. Nor is this characteristic of the old Union, and it must certainly be arranged, as should the system of teacher guidance and improvement. Another issue concerns what was supposed to be the essence of the 1999 reform. As I understand it, the question was about the Finnish model, in other words, equalizing educational opportunities. If we looked at it this way, we would notice that ultimately this reform did not fulfil this role at all. Just look at the current results of the middle school exam for 2 subjects, mathematics and foreign language, modern English, to see a huge gap between the results achieved by the students in the countryside and the ones achieved by students in cities above 100,000 inhabitants. If we were to look closely at the PISA studies, which are often put forward as an argument for, and look at this context factor, we would see that it is not so that parents are really an important factor. And if we looked at the village data, we'd see that when it comes to 15-year-olds in the country, 20% doesn't even read books at all. The collapse is happening at the middle school level at the moment of the transition... At primary school it is roughly even, but when you go to middle school there is a breakdown. Come on. If we looked at these models, we could see that there was a huge variety of junior high schools in cities. So when it comes to the score itself, there's a huge difference between junior high and junior high. While in the localities up to 5 000 inhabitants basically the difference between the results is still similar and is not large, in the cities there was a large, practically alternative, middle school system. It is de facto a denial of a model in which we give everyone equal opportunities. So if we looked at it this way, we could say that, of course, the planned reform is really going to bring it back. There is an argument that there will be a shortening of a certain cycle, the same for all 9-year-olds. It's just that he was only functional until class VI, which means he wasn't nine years old at all, which is why... Unfortunately, Senator, I'm based on research, on facts, because that's what we were talking about. In other words, if we were to lean on the results of the detailed research carried out by the Educational Research Institute, we would unfortunately notice that they show that the model of equalising opportunities does not work. If we looked at the facts, the results when it comes to middle school in villages and big cities, we would see that these results are still quite different, especially in the case of mathematics and foreign language. The same applies to the issue of large differences in the secondary score. If this is going to be a model where we give equal opportunities, then we have to take this into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u201	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, you are right that all matters relating to equalising the opportunities of young people, children from rural areas or small towns have not been dealt with, but this progress, the equation to those young people who are learning in large cities, is clear. You can see that and it shows all kinds of statistics. I'd like to ask you a question. This case is regulated, at least in part, in the Law on the clarification of current school expenditure. Social schools had a problem with the fact that the grant they received from the state budget could only be spent on current expenditure. Some schools, those that are rational, able to raise additional resources, would like to spend some of these funds on investments in facilities that are most often municipal buildings. Unfortunately, earlier regulations made this impossible. Does this law sort things out and give us the chance that these measures can be used more effectively? And the other thing. Does this law change the rules for financing and clearing schools offering language learning for national minorities, schools in which the regional language is taught? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u203	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u204	As far as the issue of national minorities is concerned, ethnic issues are also governed by other provisions. Of course, it is a matter of importance. What the national and ethnic minorities are raising was... Even if there's a subsidy, there's a sufficiently high weight for it, I'd say it's dying in this whole subsidy bag. It is argued that this is related to the activities of the local government and concerns schools in which such activities take place. Such requests shall be made. It's kind of a different problem about subsidies and its logic at all. Previously, there were various arguments in the discussion to recalculate it in a different way, for example into branches, but the clarification is as we have in the law, only those elements that... As far as expenditure is concerned, this was mainly the issue of the transfer of grants to non-public schools. It was claimed that additional expenditure... according to the local authorities, they were increasing the amount of the subsidy. It was also about students with disabilities and the importance of this, and it was about calculating a certain average, which was later passed on. These issues are ordered by this law, indicating exactly the elements that will be calculated. This was agreed with the representation of local authorities in the joint committee and accepted. Of course, it will have consequences, so to speak, on different sides. There will probably be bodies running schools, non-public institutions that will receive less subsidies, but sometimes the local authorities have tried to charge these grants in a way that raises doubts about non-public schools. It seems that this law, this change, meets the expectations of the local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u205	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns not this law, so to speak, cleaning, but the future, i.e. of what the Minister presented at the conference on the twenty-seventh. What about the new software bases? Is the high school curriculum going to change now, this year's school year, September, or is it only when the first year of the new high school, which is after the eighth grade, goes to high school? This is especially about these objects, so to speak, hard, which is physics, chemistry, biology, geography. Than demographics and the last programming base in the first high school, the first high school was actually the completion of junior high school. In fact, they have practically wiped out these objects at all. So what about the new software base?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u207	I.e., according to the planned reform, the change in the programming base must start with Class I and, if the planned changes are implemented, it will have to apply at the same time to Class VII. And, of course, there's the problem that you're talking about, the senator, the old high school general, assuming it's going to be a new high school, four years old. Since 1 September 2016, no change has been expected. To put it simply: as far as possible, they would have to deal primarily with at least 2 regulations on the programming basis, changes in the programme base and recommendations on the programme basis and the second regulations on the framework curricula. In other words, this is a very strong social demand to change the old LO into two aspects. First of all, now we have this one object. History and society. The request is simply about history, not about the history of society. Of course, you can be tempted to change this way, but not since this year, as I said, because it requires legislative changes. And then it would be about a story that students would have. Of course, with a network of hours that operates in school. Secondly, it may be less bearable, but important, or perhaps more important, for natural objects. Because so far, when it comes to such subjects as geography, physics, chemistry, biology and physics, they were realized in middle school and finished in the first grade of general education. In other words, this third and fourth educational stages were combined. And also the postulate that's been reported... Because, of course, what you said to the senator is very important. On the one hand, there has been a degradation of these objects in the social sense. Yes? It's pulling us back. When you don't teach them. On the other hand, there has been a degradation in teachers. Since these jobs aren't needed and teachers are unnecessary, they're just disappearing from the system. In addition, there has already been a degradation of chemical and physical studios in high school. So the change here is necessary and it would probably also be possible with the introduction of the whole change, that is since 2017. The point is that in place of nature, which is in high school, simply introduce objects such as physics, chemistry, biology and geography.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u208	Thank you. Senator Piotr Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I've been talking to some local authorities lately. It is known that as far as primary school and middle school bodies are concerned, they are mainly municipalities. Where there are secondary schools, especially in cities on the rights of the county, the situation is slightly different. There's a little bit out there right now, so to speak, the horror of change. Because it is known that if, for example, instead of 6+3 there are 8, it will mean that in the municipality there will be 1 year old, that teachers will have to be fired, etc., etc. So right now, I'm just saying, I'm signaling what it looks like. I also spoke with the director of the Polish Towns Association and he informed me that they were opposed to increasing their competences in terms of directors. You said at the committee meeting it was supposed to be a good idea. And I have some other information. As for the substantive issues, Minister, let us take the approval of the organisational sheets: there is the allocation of funds, there is the organisation of teaching hours, etc., and now all this is to be with the curator. And the question then, because I'm sure it's easier, let's say... There are 226 municipalities in the voivodship where I am. It's a lot. So I think it's an organizational problem. And for the last eight years, I've been a voivode and, of course, I've been working with my curator in the voivodship, and I know more or less what this job looks like. So I'm a little afraid, first of all, that if it comes back The issue of the arrangements will be back. This is certainly a time-consuming problem, also the problem of the number of these sheets. Isn't that... Because you can see that we are moving towards full power so that as much as possible can be decided. And yet local governments are these bodies, when it comes to running schools, etc., which care, try, do what they can when it comes to such facilities: they have built new middle school, new schools. And now they're told they're gonna have to change things again. So that I am afraid that these changes that you are talking about are not likely to produce positive effects, and in the local government environment they are being negative at the moment. If you could just answer these few questions... Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u210	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u211	Mr. Marshal, when it comes to the opinion of the sheets, as I said, it already existed in the law, and then the curatoria was able to handle it. Moreover, we assume that from the very beginning, when it comes to building this sheet, it is legal. Legally, in other words, the Senator rapporteur spoke about it. In other words, the subject must have a certain number of hours, and the teacher who teaches must have certain qualifications. So it's just one way or another it has to be legal, but here it's the legality that could still be investigated, and now it's actually going to be able to be investigated earlier. Anyway, that opinion was never formulated either, and the senator spoke about it. This is to draw attention if there are any inconsistencies between teachers' qualifications, a framework plan. Moreover, today we spoke about the issue of building this sheet, that it is for a moment, there is obviously a question of 3 months, which is connected with possible statements for teachers, but then there is still a certain verification of this state of affairs through annexes to the organizational sheets. So here I don't see any special threats or big changes or some big job, in the sense of work that would be impossible for school curators. I'm going back to the point of opinion. I repeat all the time that the matter concerning the agreement of this project with representatives of local governments appeared at the stage of the government project, and those amendments which concerned the opinion of the sheets and committees on the appointment of school heads were made in the course of the parliamentary work. I would not like to refer to this topic, except, of course, one, that these amendments have been supported. And as for the question of the decision, this is about the first part that the senator was talking about. I would like to say that looking at the issue of the construction of the middle school network, it can be estimated that it has changed very much since Minister Handke's reform. In other words, it looks like this: this perfect idea of Minister Handkey assumed 5.5 thousand junior highs, today there are over 7,000 junior highs. In addition, it was assumed that there should be a minimum of 150 students in junior high school This is the way the regulation provided for. And if it were the perfect option, it would be a middle school, where there would be a little over 300 students; it was calculated that it would be about 307 students. Today, the middle school in this shape does not exist, in other words, as if the middle school had fallen below as far as the number of 150 students is concerned. This number of about 300 students had a deep justification. Namely, it was about believing that a teacher in such middle school should have a job, because then he will be associated with this school. And if you look at what it looks like in practice, you'll find that in a one-way gymnasium And that's pretty much the statistical middle school. The history teacher, who is 6 hours old, lacks a lot to work for. So it's hard to tell what it looks like... If we looked at what it looks like statistically, it would turn out that most of the junior high schools are in a primary school band today. Why did this happen? This is, of course, a long story, which is related to the change of law that took place after 2001, when the primary school was allowed to be formed. Then it got a little rougher, giving the parole officer the authority to allow him to agree to join primary school with junior high. If we looked at the situation from the village side, we would see that the homogeneousity of secondary schools and primary schools is about 66%. Because these schools were supposed to be separated by a wall and not connected, right? So it looks like there's only 5% in the country. students who don't have a classmate from primary school. So then this perfect image doesn't exist. As far as rural areas are concerned, this is most often the case. It's just a one-way gymnasium at primary school. If we looked at how statistically it looks, we'd see that we're dealing with some scissors that open up, i.e. on the one hand, the number of students quilts with demographics, on the other hand, the number of junior highs has increased. For various reasons, this was done, also because of changes in the educational regulations that took place in 2005 prohibiting the operation of junior high schools, in quotes, in subsidiaries. In other words, they became independent then, only that they deviated far from the model they were supposed to provide and the jobs, and the smooth functioning, and the levelling of opportunities. So this de facto change is supposed to save some potential. I would add that, in recent years, when it comes to the liquidation of schools, of course, it is true... that local governments have given great attention in terms of middle school, their building, their development. And in fact, 90% The liquidation concerns primary schools.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u212	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u213	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would ask you to answer the question about these consultations. What were the opinions of all the stakeholders involved in the consultation mentioned by the Senator rapporteur?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u214	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u215	As I said, in total, there were 7 out of 60 stakeholders in these opinions. As far as the government version of the project is concerned... As for the test and the most important part for us, that is, what was connected with the college when it comes to graduation, there were basically no key comments about this test at all. The issue of grants has been agreed on in the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. So the comments of the local government that were reported were taken into account in the version that was sent to the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u216	Thank you. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the article. 9ca, which is the list of arbitrators of the College of Examination Arbitration. This Article sets out the criteria for the selection of these arbitrators, indicates that the application shall be made at the request of the person concerned and the other criteria to be met by a possible candidate. Next, in Article. 9ccc is a reference to a regulation that is probably not yet in place or is in the project phase... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: It is an annex.]] ...on the appointment and settlement procedures, i.e. the rates for the examination tasks. And I have a question for you about that. How will this college and the list of arbitrators work? Is this going to be a strict set-up at the minister's office, or is it going to be some kind of field troop of these arbiters? Will all appeals be addressed to one arbitration college, or will they be regional centres? That's one thing. The second point is funding. What are the sources of funding? What are the amounts of the rates expected for these examination tasks? And will they even be interested? I'm asking because the criteria for choosing this list are pretty much accurate. Is the Ministry working on it? As far as this list is concerned, it will probably also depend on the number of appeals. By the way, I would like to ask how many such appeals have been submitted in the case of exams so far, although in a different form. Does the Ministry have any knowledge of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u218	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u219	Mr. Marshal, I am looking for a draft regulation, and I do not see it in front of me at the moment, in any case it clarifies these rates. Of course, the draft regulation is already in place, so that the issue of rates is enshrined in it as regards those who will be members. The procedure for these appeals appears to be that a reference can first be made to the district director of the examination commission, this is the first stage. And if we disagree with this decision, we can appeal to the College of Examination Arbitration. It is to function in front of the head of the Central Examination Board. The list of arbitrators is being drawn up at the Minister of National Education. This list will be run by the Minister according to these criteria. The idea of setting up a 2-person squad was that on the one hand it would be an experienced examiner due to... In fact, it can be said that this is also an argument that was raised by the interested parties themselves. It was due to the concern that people who are not examiners, as if they were not fully aware of how this exam is carried out and as if they were not fully able to see how the school works. At the same time, where we're dealing with these things we've been talking about, such as biology. or chemistry, it was most appropriate to introduce people who present a particularly high scientific level so that those views of the expert on the exam might conflict with the views of the person who can resolve any dilemmas in the most scientific way possible. The idea was also that this decision should not take place by way of a vote, in other words, to simply decide eventually. As far as numbers are concerned, there are not large numbers for such changes. They were within 1%. So this isn't some huge number, I'd say, effective appeals. Moreover, this procedure provides that, on the one hand, we allow photographing to write an appeal, but on the other hand, it must be justified and for a specific task. It can't be that I'm sorry I ran out of points. The point is that the person concerned himself should point out what he thinks has been wrongly calculated. Then this verification can be carried out immediately by the director of the district commission, and if not, it will go on. Now, about that list... The idea is that the work that would go to the arbitrators would, of course, be anonymous to them. It's about the arbiters leaning over them without knowing what kind of school this is, what kind of student this is, and so on. At the same time, the arbitrations would be the first people on the list, which would not be done on the basis that someone, I don't know, would choose the arbitration for the job. Of course, if it happened that a person couldn't, then another person on the list... This is intended to ensure the objectivity of the college's activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u220	I'd like the floor of Senator George Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Senator rapporteur cannot, of course, answer the question about how much it will cost, but since the Minister was kind enough to quote Minister Handke, who calculated that there will be 5.5 thousand gymnasiums, as the leading minister... You have to have some sort of calculated sum about how much it's gonna cost. This is the first case. The second question I'm asking is, why are you in such a hurry with all this? This is highlighted by former ministers, for whom the level of the Polish school is of course important. Isn't there a reason it's a vacation? We are talking about such a serious bill, which concerns a huge environment, right now, when the holidays began. You can't back down from Senator Dowhan's question as to whether there were any organizations that expressed their opposition. You didn't answer straight. After all, ZNP clearly opposed and we saw it on the streets of our city, there were demonstrations of teachers. Next question... Such voices also fall from the teaching community. People are very worried that tens of thousands This data is published in the press and in the media. .Gymnasium workers, teachers and directors may be at risk of losing their jobs. And my last question, it may not be that substantive anymore, but please answer me. I didn't get that from the senator's statement, which I respect very much, and I know he's a great director. What's it like, are you guys gonna do that to close the middle school in 2017? Is that your project? The idea is that since 2018, since the school year 2017/2018, there should be primary schools and then high school? If I'm wrong, correct me. And then there's the question about the test. I am observing this issue, as my grandchildren are going through this stage. Their secondary schools in Cracow received students on the basis of the points they obtained from the test. I know the students were just competing with each other because one school had a better opinion and the other was worse. So the result of the test was decided and then the classes or even the students in the classes were chosen in this way. And that's what happened, that happened a year ago, and two years ago. Is this where... What will recruitment be like in the new situation if middle school stays? If they don't stay, then I don't know what it's for... Maybe he's asking... But those last questions are, you know, parent or grandfather questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u222	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u223	I'm going to answer a little bit from the end, of course, because basically the last question is about the bill that we're dealing with right now, which means... It was a question of the role of the sixth grade test. First of all, the value of this test was diagnostic, not selective. And primary school, and middle school are district schools, where the school duty is fulfilled. So that was not the purpose of the test. He was just supposed to have a diagnostic value. Of course, what you said to the senator... I'll finish up in a minute. It is difficult for me to tell if the resolution of the Municipality Council in Krakow was... I don't think so, but I can't tell you how every municipality in Poland has accepted the way they have been recruited for junior high school. And now I'm gonna tell you why. Because the middle school is regional, which is, in other words, the student does his schooling duty there. But, of course, we have two situations. One is that a student from outside the circuit may enter the middle school, i.e. in accordance with the law of a local government unit may have introduced additional criteria. Some local authorities could have done so, although we would have said that from the point of view of the idea of the test it was not very reasonable to introduce the possibility of using the result of the test, which served other purposes, was used for diagnosis as a selection factor. I'm sure it happened in Łódź, as I recall. About Krakow I don't want to talk about it. Of course, there's one more thing that could have happened. The test had a selection value of up to 2 types of middle school, i.e. athletic and bilingual. And now this law, with regard to the selection element, introduces another, i.e. the possibility of selection based on evaluation. I would also like to say that to the change which the selection value of this test withdrew, the comments were not, we can presume that it is because bilingual secondary school or sports junior high school still conducts recruitment on the basis of a different test, skill test, whether language or sports. So it doesn't really need to be done. Anyway, someone might say that maybe the evaluation isn't as objective as the test, but it didn't actually serve that purpose. You can say more about the grades, so purely theoretically, from the research... The average grade is a pretty good forecast for the student's success, because it shows how he works in full. There is also one subject that shows the student's success well. It's math, math on the certificate. Its factor is very high when it comes to predicting success. Now, back to the question, I'm going to say that this is the only aspect that was taken. Most of the leading authorities, most of the local authorities have adopted different criteria, those which appear on the certificate, i.e. above all evaluations, but this only applies to the moment when the student was admitted to a secondary school outside the circuit, because, of course, the school's obligation must be fulfilled in a given secondary school. The senator's question is, I would say much wider, precisely what is the moment at which the selection takes place, which is, as I said at the beginning, how much differentiation of junior high schools is taking place that would even the odds... And in big cities a large number of unicycle middle schools were introduced, because bilingual middle school and sports middle school, but most of all it is bilingual, there is no circuit, and many of these middle schools were created, and bilingual branches were created. Besides, they most often function, as one senator said, in cities on the rights of the county, in general schools. According to our analysis, there are virtually no such schools in the countryside, i.e. in municipalities up to 5 000 inhabitants there are very few such junior high schools. Now, back to the other questions... As far as the Polish Teachers' Union is concerned, he did not object to this draft law. But of course the Polish Teachers' Union has the right to protest against various other aspects... [[He didn't bring it in?]] He didn't bring it in. Well, since he's protesting other issues... Of course, as a trade union, he has the right to do so. I'm actually a reader of the Teacher's Voice. As I recall, the remark that came to this project concerned one element of the amendment introduced in the Sejm, namely the one concerning trade unions. And this trade union amendment has been taken into account. It is difficult for me to say at the moment whether it was an amendment of the Polish Teachers' Association because I did not attend this meeting in the Sejm. It was about clarifying what the trade union issue was about when it came to the Social Dialogue Council. And that was one thing. As regards the protests of the Polish Teachers' Association and the protests related to the loss of work, please note that it was strongly stressed that the change in the school obligation of six-year-olds would result in job losses And she didn't. I'd just like to say that the artificial increase that led to the introduction of the 6-year-olds' obligation is an increase in early schooling by 23,000. But it was, as I said, an artificial treble, because the demographic indicates that the number of students is falling, and one way or another, there would have to be a job reduction. It can be expected that most local governments have acted rationally, or by introducing extra-dimensional hours for teachers, so that at some point, when they would pass through early school education, they would not fire teachers, but reduce their jobs, or employ teachers only for a certain period of time, because they realized that this hill, this treble, would simply pass through the I-III class, so it's teaching in an integrated system, i.e. in early school education. It's like it didn't work out. It is also difficult for me to speak at the moment about how local governments react to the announcements of certain changes. In any case, I would like to stress that the aim of these actions is simply to save a certain base, to save some potential, including the one that concerns teachers, and not those that would be irrational. Please note that the number of schools is decreasing with the number of pupils. And with the number of students, the number of teaching posts is decreasing. This is due to the system of funding the educational system through education subsidy, which is calculated in such a way that money follows the student. And one more question. Of course, yes, the change is due from 2017, but this means its gradual introduction. That doesn't mean junior high is gonna disappear at this point. No, but there's going to be a new type of school, which is common school. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u225	Minister, I can hardly imagine in my region a curatorium which, without additional employment, will check about 1.5 thousand school organisational sheets. So far 226 municipalities have been doing this job, and now it's going to be done by one parole board... Well, maybe it'll work. I'm just curious about what this is supposed to do. Please, Minister, tell us what mistakes the local authorities made in checking these sheets and what was the scale that you decided to make such a change. What is it? Shortly: why? Why are you doing this? And that's the basic issue. And the other thing. As far as the composition of the competition committees is concerned, you claim that you have the positive opinions of local corporations in this bill. But I think you mean the ministerial project without the changes that have been introduced. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Then speak clearly, otherwise we will suspect that you wish to mislead the High House. [[Voices from the hall: No...]] So, for the key changes, you have no opinion. These key changes, I dare say, were made to avoid these opinions. And they're crucial. [[It's already in the discussion, Mr. Senator.]] And my question is, why are you doing this? What was wrong with these competitions, what were the disadvantages? I think there's something you're trying to do and fix. It's very interesting, which, so I'm asking you to find out... [[They won't be affected by...]] ...what, apart from the so-called balance, is that supposed to give?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u226	Okay, thank you. Two questions, right? You're welcome, Minister. [[Short!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u227	It has already happened many times here that when it comes to the arrangements, they took place at the stage of creating a ministerial project, no one is hiding anything. A change, which concerns the strengthening of the probation officer's powers, or in general changes in this aspect, took place at the stage of the process of this project in the Sejm. And what do they serve? In other words, why does the Minister of National Education respond positively to them? Because, as the senator noted, there was a certain balance. Of course, the school is a base, it's a material issue, it's a matter of equipment for the studio, it's a question of the safety of students, it's about the gym, about the field. But apart from that, and perhaps above all, school is about teaching and raising. So according to what is most important, it should in some way be controlled by the education curator. In other words, it's a matter of substance for the school. At a time when we have a balance, these two aspects are taken into account. I would just like to point out that it is often said that, if you look at the powers of the director, of course, his powers are large, but of course an important factor is the local government unit. And because it is the property of the local government, it is of course not irrelevant who owns the property. But it's hard to have this property separate from the actual activities of the school. Please also note that, in principle, if the lead authority had an advantage in the competition committee, the director did not have to fully deal with the social factor. In other words, it was only important how it was judged by the host body. And the change allows this social factor to become an important factor, the one that also concerns the pedagogical council, and the one that concerns parents. In other words, it causes socialization. Thus, when making a decision, the Director will have to take into account that there are parents and their expectations on the one hand, and there are actions that he will have to take in some way, bearing in mind that there are also teachers, and that even if the teachers of a given pedagogical council may not necessarily want to make themselves known at such a time, so to speak, during the meeting of this pedagogical council, they will be able to express their opinion at the time of the competition. They will also be able to express their views on trade unions What's the point? It doesn't make up for these... Their representatives will not come from the teaching board but from the work committee of the representative union concerned. In other words, it will allow us to socialize, and in fact, contrary to appearances, it will give the director some freedom. Because I'm going to be aware that you can't make decisions without taking into account the social factor. In other words, the compass of the school principal will not only be turned towards, I don't know, the town hall, but it will have to include parents and teachers as well. And that's one thing. It's hard for me to talk about the subject, whether the parole board can handle it. There is, of course, time, this one school year to rebuild or adjust the structure of the curatoria to create an appropriate group of visitors to take care of it. Of course, it is true that the previously created supervision system was so designed that it did not basically provide for the substantive work of the visitors, but created a group of probation workers whose main task was only to come to school and carry out the so-called. evaluation. It did not necessarily have to be employees who knew how to work a particular type of school, there were often those who had no contact with the school, but just ran a survey system. And we're going to change this flawed surveillance system. Because if the evaluation were to serve only as a help to the school principal in improving those aspects of the school's activities that are malfunctioning, it would be absolutely right. But the evaluation is to be part of the evaluation of the school's work at the same time. And basically it was the only way to check the school's functioning. Well, in the case of primary schools, there was possibly a ranking, which, as we have said here, often had little to do with the genuine work of the school. This period of preparation on the one hand will allow changes to be made in supervision, and on the other hand will provide an opportunity to move away from the bureaucracy we have been talking about here, from creating these surveys, multi-page studies, which did not bring much, will also allow the curatorial staff to take care of the school and how it works, not the surveys. [[There was no answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u228	Thank you, Minister. [[Mrs. Marshal, I just want to say that the Minister has not answered my question at all.]] [[This can be said in the discussion. A little culture...]] Quiet, please. I believe, Senator, that the Minister has answered these questions extensively. You can... [[The Minister answered, but he didn't answer.]] You may disagree with this argument, but the Minister has answered these questions very extensively. Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Piotr Wach's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u229	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you again about the funding, and it seems to me that a relatively short answer is enough here. I would put it this way: a large part of this bill is... Actually, I have two questions, and I'd like to point out right away. The first concerns financing. A large part of the law defines various things related to funding: the nearest municipality, the nearest county, the nearest voivodship, the basic grant, the statistical number of pupils. These are things that have changed or have been, so to speak, defined. Have there been changes in this respect after the time when the local authorities were consulted? I mean these definitions and this part of the bill. That's the first question. The second question is less significant, but very detailed, it concerns Article. 9ca paragraph. 8, which specifies when the Minister responsible for Education and Education deletes the arbitration panel from the list of arbitrators. And in point 1, there's this phrase: "on the application of the arbitration panel." I think it's a miswrite. It should be: in the event of the resignation of the arbitration panel. It seems to me that the application can be submitted to another person, and the resignation only in relation to itself. It doesn't matter much, because it's the minister who deletes it or doesn't delete it, but it's wrongly written. [[Request for resignation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u230	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u231	As for the first question, all issues relating to the vocabulary, the definition of the nearest district, the commune, the voivodship and everything that is taken into account when applying grants to those entities that run non-public schools or public schools run by another body were agreed. As I said, this option, this government version was agreed, so the whole funding mechanism was actually defined by the inspiration of the local government. Well, it's hard for me to answer that second question. That's the way it's put it... There were no comments on this at any stage, either in the Sejm or in those factors which were made by the legislative editors. So we can presume that this is the correct wording.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u232	Thank you very much. And there you go, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question that came to my mind after the Minister's statement. I agree with part of the Minister's diagnosis of pedagogical supervision, which is today. You told the Minister we'd be moving towards his change. Could you say two words to the Minister, without details, about the direction in which this change of supervision will be going? Now that you have a diagnosis that you've made, and it's clear that we're going to change it, I understand that there's a certain idea of where it's going to go. [[Let's not go beyond this bill. This bill is huge, and yet...]] Professor, if you're gonna take the floor, then... [[I'm here on a formal matter, Mrs. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u234	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u235	I ask you to observe that the questions concern the substance. Because we're going very, very far... [[This isn't about the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u236	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Senator, please specify the question so that it concerns this law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u237	I was talking about pedagogical supervision, and pedagogical supervision is defined in this law. It is the issue of exams, the role of supervision, participation in committees, etc. The Minister said we'd change surveillance. If the Minister could say... And if you don't, say, "I won't say, 'cause it's a secret." Now I'm going to go to two more questions. Minister, during the parliamentary work on the project that you have submitted to the Minister or the Government, a curator's opinion on the draft organizational sheet appeared. Tell me, what will be the legal status of the draft organizational sheet if the probation officer makes a negative opinion? Will he be able to be implemented or not? What are the elements of this piece of legislation... That's the first question. Second question. The Legal Office of the Sejm has given its opinion that the extension of the bill to this paragraph is incompatible with the Constitution, as the subject matter of the bill submitted is thus extended. The ministry's opinion, the government's opinion... what was your opinion on this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u238	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u239	The legal opinion was that it falls outside the scope and is legal. What happened in the Seym was the work of Members. The amendments proposed by this amendment are legal. With regard to the government's position, these amendments have received a positive opinion. The government responded positively to the changes made in the Seym. Question about pedagogical supervision. I mentioned it briefly. This is to be, first of all, a reduction in evaluation. She is to be an action that will serve not to evaluate the work of the principal and the school, but simply to point out possible positives and negatives. Secondly, this is to limit the use of surveys, to limit the tools used for these evaluations. Next: the changes are intended to ensure that the Visitor is actually connected with a group of schools and is able to make contact very quickly, solve a problem that concerns the group of schools assigned to him. That's the opinion. also the curators of education to restore the system by means of the fact that the Visitor has a specific area of activity. There were other issues that were there, about supervision. They were repeatedly reported by school heads themselves, and that was the issue of moving away from the bureaucratic system. This will also be followed by legislative amendments, including those relating to the Curatoria Regulation. [[Thank you, Minister...]] [[There was a second question, Minister. If you don't mind, I'll remind them. It was about what would happen if the school curator did not express a positive opinion, i.e. he expressed a negative opinion on the organizational project. What is the legal status in this regard?]] The opinion must be positive because the sheet must comply with the law, i.e. must be in line with the framework curriculum and must be in line with the qualifications of teachers. It is hard to imagine that there would be a moment when someone who is not qualified to teach an object to teach. But this is also what the rapporteur said, when there was this provision in the previous legislative solution, it was about drawing attention to certain things and making appropriate amendments. That's what we were talking about. Why? Well, sometimes there have been mistakes, but of course they could have been far-reaching... e.g. where there could be issues concerning whether the number of hours per teaching cycle or the qualifications of teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u240	Thank you very much. Senator Józef Łyczak's question, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It just so happened that I had the pleasure of meeting with the Minister in Toruń. The meeting took place in a very large hall, where there were about 500 people, mainly school heads and teachers, local government officials, curators. Sitting there inside, I had the perfect opportunity to observe the reaction that the Minister's presentation of the reform was causing. This presentation was interrupted every few minutes, but was interrupted by applause, not whistles. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. But with applause. This is proof, Minister, that Poles expect reform as soon as possible. At the end of the presentation, Mr. Defendor, who, as it turned out, was also in the courtroom, ran out and to dozens of people gathered in front of the courtroom began to give a speech about the content that one of my predecessors had already spoken about here. I would like to say that Poles are waiting for this reform to be implemented as soon as possible, because they want Polish children to receive a good, decent and solid education, a deeply patriotic education, because as we know, the previous team... [[Where's the question, Marshal?]] [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...the science of history reduced to a minimum. And to conclude, I would like to ask you, Minister, to remind you of the dates. As I understood Because Poles follow our meetings and expect this, so I would like you to confirm it. The reform comes into force in 2017 and will be completed fully in 2018, yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u242	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u243	As regards time, the reform will start in 2017/2018 school year and will end in 2023. Which means, of course, she'll be stretched out in time. I also answered the senator's question about the reform before the reform itself, as the Minister calls it. And it would be about changing what we can now call an old general education high school, which is to actually restore what the senator is talking about, which is teaching history in the right dimension, and to restore teaching natural subjects as it was before. That, of course, what the senator was talking about, also concerns the question that came up here about the costs. Unfortunately, the cost is this, and delaying the changes... It is simply expensive because the current system does not meet the expectations of a large part of society. Unfortunately, that is precisely what the senator was talking about, and so in fact the elimination of full-time teaching of natural subjects, because they are practically not taught in high school, except for the completion of the programming base in the first class of LO. So delaying the change of this system is just expensive and we just can't afford it. This is the most important reason for the change. Of course, I would also like to say that this change and its finances will also change funding for 6-year-olds, i.e. those children who will be in the mandatory annual preparation system. And the final version of this change will, of course, be accompanied by subsidies and budgets.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u244	Thank you, Minister. Let me remind you that the questions are about the bill under consideration, not about the whole educational reform. [[Jackie, don't sign up.]] [[But now that I'm here...]] I'm asking you to ask me a question... There's no Professor Wind... This is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please ask questions, there will be time for speeches later in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u245	Good morning. Welcome. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Thank you.]] [[He just got here?]] I have a question for the Minister about this question, whether in the future... Because I understand that as far as procedures are concerned, the possibility of appealing against the result of the exam, at the moment this bill gives it. And will it be possible in the future to change the system that is now, so that the results of the Matura are known more quickly? 'Cause from May, when they're graduating, until July 5th this year, it's a pretty long time. [[The Minister spoke.]] Pretty traumatic for seniors because they don't know these results. Couldn't we speed it up? Our yearbooks had high school records, as it were. a vista and... [[It was known.]] [[One minute.]] It was known. And pretty much anyone could have in their strategies... If he chose further education or had other life plans, at least he was clear about the situation. There's a waiting period right now. I say this on behalf of 280,000 seniors this year who are just experiencing this trauma... [[Thank you...]] And is the resort planning some kind of acceleration, improvement... [[Thank you, Senator...]] ...exploiting these procedures? It's just that the results... [[Thank you...]] ...and the rules of the game were known before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u246	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u247	As regards the question of the college of arbitration, of course from the following year, from this session of the prom exam will be photographing. And the issue of changing the examination system is extremely important. I would just like to say that one possibility of accelerating is the introduction of e-assessment. It is currently taking place on part of the middle school exams. In other words, the examiners in front of the computer monitor at home evaluate the work. This, of course, makes the result even more objective, because the examiner checks, in quotes, only his task. So he doesn't see the whole thing and there's no so-called. Halo effect, that is to consider the whole sheet to evaluate a given point. It would also be a good way to avoid such a Polish contribution to the examination system, which is called the result of mercy. It appears as we approach this magical point 30%. That's one thing, of course. The second one, which would allow it to be transformed, is a question of changing professional exams. This examination system works together and the reform of vocational education should ultimately lead to an examination system from the Central Examination Board. That would be the most desirable element. Those things that are generalized... Then actually testing, judging if checking would be more efficient. Of course, the whole system, its functioning, was also the subject of a debate. This change is going to happen, too. I don't know if it's satisfying for you, sir, but I'm gonna say there's no wonderful way to speed this up right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u248	Thank you, Minister. And Professor Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Excuse me, I've been out for a while, and this is the kind of emotion that's been causing me. I must say this: at least six times a public consultation has been asked, although the Minister has told us very precisely. In principle, the main axis of these questions in the final stage concerned whether or not there was a consultation on the government project. However, there was no consultation in the Seym. The question is whether the Sejm is obliged to conduct such consultations and whether the government is responsible for the consultation to be conducted by the Sejm. After all, these are questions for the Minister. These are, of course, rather rhetorical questions. I mean, there's even a lot of... The Minister was impeached that perhaps this was specifically introduced in the Sejm in order to avoid this consultation. Yeah, it's kind of rude. Of course, in answer to my question, the Minister may say for the seventh time that 60 stakeholders were consulted that 7 or 9 opinions were received, but the question is whether the government is responsible for the consultation of the Sejm and whether the Sejm is obliged to conduct such consultations. Thank you very much. [[There's no obligation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u250	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u251	What was at stake in this legislative process In other words, the number of participants in this consultation and those activities which concerned the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government were all carried out. There is also no opinion that says that the changes made by the Sejm are unlawful. Of course, the amendments were the work of Members. And as I said, the government's position was in favour of the changes that the Sejm introduced in the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u252	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I still have a brief question about the very good, introduced process of appeal against the results of the exams. Could the Minister say if there were estimates of the length of the appeal process until the decision was fully valid?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u254	Of course. That's from the records in the bill. And of course it was also an exceptional element, so we tried very hard to clarify it so that these actions would last as short as possible. Well, unfortunately, there are certain procedures that talk about it... The results of the seniors get to July 5th, then they have to get to know them, they have to have an insight into what's in the district committee, and yet there aren't any district committees in every voivodeship, which unfortunately means they have to get to the district committee, they have to have time to make a precise appeal. Unfortunately, this process is time-consuming. Then, if necessary, refer to the arbitrators. It all takes, unfortunately, almost two months, which is a long process, but still the shortest possible one. After a lot of consultations or calculations that we conducted together with the Central Examination Board, it was possible to set a time period for everything. The point is that certain entities can appeal, i.e. so that the Director of the District Examination Board can comment on this so that the decision of the District Director of the Examination Board and the transfer of this fact can be appealed by a graduate or, in the case of another examination, a parent, so that the appeal can be lodged in the proper manner and time and that it can be examined in substance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u255	Thank you, Minister. Senator Piotr Wach... I'm sorry, Peter Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u256	Minister, I am not going to ask about local governments, about the costs which, more or less, according to these statements, will have to be borne by local governments. I'm not gonna ask you about those M.A.s. 'Cause there's something like that coming up there, too. Or a bachelor's degree... something like that, I guess. But, Minister, a specific question about the principal's competitions. If no candidate comes forward or no candidate will be selected as a result of the competition, something like this has happened many times and has aroused controversy. After the changes discussed here, who will be entrusted with the role of director? Has anything changed here? Will it be as it has been, or has there been a change? This is also a question of self-government, they say there is a change here. I would ask you to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u257	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u258	This change results from the amendment made in the Sejm. So that there has been a change in this respect. In the event that the competition for the position of director is not decided... the record is that the authority responsible for the management in agreement with the supervisory authority shall entrust... Thus, the change is that not the leading authority itself, but in agreement with the supervisory authority, the curator of education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u259	So in agreement, as I understand it... Can I ask you a question? As I understand it, in agreement with the parole officer... So if the parole officer doesn't give his consent, then the attending authority, unfortunately, can't appoint, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u260	It has to be in agreement. [[Okay. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u261	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Bear. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u262	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I will return to the issues related to the assessment of the organisational sheets by the curators. Well, a few months ago, you made a change to the law on the education system. At that time, you clearly lowered the requirements of the curators. The probation officer doesn't have to have a completed degree in education management. And so there is a somewhat paradoxical situation. Because every school principal has to have pedagogical training and has to have completed postgraduate studies in management in education. And he's preparing an organizational sheet. Then this sheet goes to a curator who potentially does not need to be a management specialist in education. And the same parole officer thinks it's a sheet. What's the point of doing that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u263	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u264	With regard to the curators of education selected in the competition, the vast majority of them have very much experience, very much competence. Some of them were school counselors, school principals. So that they have far higher qualifications and great experience in school work. The curator's job is really to consider... whether the conduct in the voivodship of what is the educational policy of the state. And the question of assessing the sheets is, of course, a question of entrusting these tasks to relevant visitors with the relevant qualifications and competences that will verify these sheets. So there's no danger here. Besides, the same applies to the individual guardians of education. If you look at it in such a purely personal way, in terms of the qualifications of those who are in these positions... As I said, their competences are actually far beyond what the law itself makes in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u265	Thank you. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u266	Thank you very much. Minister, my predecessors' questions were about the details of the bill. I'd like to ask if the fathers or grandparents of the children knew exactly. Students of which classes in the 2016/2017 school year will be covered by the Act under consideration today? That's the first question. And second question. If the director selected in the competition during the term of office doesn't work, there's a possibility... It doesn't work in such a way that. he's doing some kind of privacy, he's unfair, he's using nepotism, he's creating a grid, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's doing Who can do this and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u267	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u268	The contested law in the school year 2016/2017 is to lift the test. He's supposed to be replaced by a diagnosis in junior high class I. The amendments proposed by you by the Minister are to enter into force in the 2017/2018 school year. Now, back to that... The question of the opinion of the sheets, the question of the principal's competition and one more element concerning the evaluation of the school principal... Besides, the law doesn't change anything, it doesn't go beyond what's written in the education system so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u269	I don't think you understand. I don't mean when changes are made. I know that in the school year 2017/2018. Students of which classes in the school year 2016/2017... Which pupils are involved? In September 2016, students will be in different classes. Which class will be covered by this law? Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: In the school year 2016/2017...]] There will be those who in the school year 2016/2017 will be e.g. in class III or IV. Which class will be covered by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u270	In 2016, nothing changes, and what will happen in the 2017/2018 school year will apply to those who finish class VI. They're going to class VII of the newly formed school, that's the planned change. I wouldn't want to go into what was announced right now. The moment the school system bill comes up... The idea is not to change the law on the education system again, and the senators were talking about it, but to introduce the law on the school system. If she shows up, we can talk about a specific change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u271	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for the comprehensive answers to the questions asked by your senators. I'm opening a discussion. I'm gonna ask you to speak... You're not a marshal. Professor Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! What do you say... It was supposed to be short because it's late, but while I was asking questions, I was writing other things that I wanted to talk about. This is undoubtedly an important law because it concerns education. Education covers a multitude of children and young people who are the future of our nation and state. The bill is extremely extensive because it has 94 pages. Originally, it was supposed to be the conclusion of the sixth grade exam. This is properly called a test. and reference to the College of Examination Arbitration. But then of course. this has grown, there have been many areas, here we are talking about 14 major groups, and there are other things. There's been a lot of talk today about increasing the probation officer's authority. I have to say, I'm worried about how ladies and gentlemen of the senators are so selectively reading the records of the presented laws. I think the example of the principal's competition is very good here, because many people asked why the curator would have 3 representatives instead of 2, but I did not hear the question why parents would have 2 representatives instead of 1 and why teachers would have 2 representatives instead of 1. So let's look at it as a whole. And this is the same matter, this is the same competition committee, and suddenly 3+2+1+1 turned into 3+3+2+2 and the trade unions. And we know, because to us, to the senators comes such a shortcut: people come with voices that sometimes local governments abuse the advantage in these committees. So let's be here... Let's measure it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the welfare of the child, that human capital are very important matters. There were such statements that there was catching up, that statistics improved, that we had great results of PISA tests. Ladies and gentlemen, please ask the rectors of the university. I participate in meetings of the General Council of Science and Higher Education, I participate in meetings of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, in meetings of the Senate of universities. It's terrifying there because of how the level of college candidates has decreased. A compensatory year is introduced and it is said that there has been a teaching Colloquialism again for testing. At the same time, teachers of these legal changes were forced to introduce paths. We have already talked in this House several times about the fact that there is one lesson in history, and I have always told from this speaker, also several times that there is one lesson in physics, one lesson in chemistry. So this full-format, 4-year-old high school, with a good classic program is Polish education, Polish youth and future generations, which are supposed to testify about development, are to develop culturally and economically our nation and state, just extremely necessary. We can't wait for the whole new vision to happen, but these programs already, in accelerated mode, need to be changed. There were words of concern for the contribution of local governments to the construction of junior high schools, about jobs for teachers. Of course, we hope so, and I will say that I am so convinced that these changes will take place with respect for children, with respect for parents, with respect for teachers, with care for the workplace of teachers. The Minister has already talked about this here. Of course, the important thing is that on July 5th there will be the results of the exams and that this law will allow these works to be photographed. There were a lot of questions about this, too. I have no doubt that this is a step towards greater transparency. Today, at the committee meeting, when we discussed the next law on higher education, we talked about open source codes in the software, about how this is a very good method, just like the cameras in the polls, that this social control is the best. The Minister said that not every appeal must be taken into account, but let's do it right. The question was whether the teacher would be able to take pictures. I understand that the teacher or the person who will look into it will simply have access to the job. The point is, the other side was in an unsymmetrical situation. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been voices on the aims of the reform announced by the Minister in Toruń. I have to say, we've got some bad middle school experiences. I don't want to judge the intention of the authors of these changes, it's a subject for a longer time. Practice has shown that the choice of age when young people go to middle school was fatal. The fact that educational periods, middle school and high school are too short, we already know. That's why we're looking forward to these changes. I'm really glad it was a quick first step in the 6-year-olds case. I have also spoken on this subject many times in my previous term of office. We expect normality because it is not only about structural changes, but also about programmes. I've already mentioned this. . about normal readings, understanding the school's mission, the teacher's mission, the role of a cultural school, including a small school. Because the elimination of small schools pays off in a narrow way when the circle on financial considerations is small, but when you look holistically at the functioning of the local community, you can see that it looks different. But there's a fashion to give money to fight pathologies, and not necessarily to promote good. I am therefore pleased that there has been a rapid change in the case of 6-year-olds, that they have been respected: the basic role of parents, the subsidiarity of the state and constitutional rights, and we are not determined to make these changes, as the Minister in the Sejm said, in response to hundreds of thousands of parents' signatures. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are at an extremely intense stage of revolutionary civilizational transformations, called the construction of an information society and a knowledge-based economy. In Poland one of the important elements of these changes is the plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki. There is no doubt that the role of the school, that education and upbringing of the student, as well as the functioning of the family and the state... I can mention here in the middle of a sentence our resolution on building an educational atmosphere, about social harmony in this upbringing. These are extremely important elements that will decide not only what the gross domestic product will be in the future, what the earnings and income of families will be in the coming years, but also what the social, economic and cultural development of our society and state will be like. That's why we're hoping for a good change. We're asking for some good changes. And I have no doubt that this bill is even though it is difficult, because it consists of more than 18 puzzles, 18 large and a few more small It is very necessary, it straightens a lot of things in transition. So that we ask for a good change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u273	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Good changes are the password, a certain pick. Let's see what these good changes look like, what they're getting at. Good changes, i.e. centralization, centralization of everything, submission to the government factor, shifting the powers of local governments to the level of government authorities. It's been happening for some time now, also in education. The June Act subordinates the curators to the Minister of National Education. The curator contest rule has been abolished. We now have a simple indication, a simple appointment. As it happens, it was in Pomerania, in Gdańsk you could see. This is not simply the liquidation of competitions, but the principle that has been introduced is the principle that the appointment of curators basically gives into the minister's hands. At the same time, there is a political exchange of curators. I guess everyone, I'd say, the old parole officers have already been canceled. As I understand it, they were doing their duty wrong, terrible. The state of education I've heard of is probably comparable to the state of the army evaluated by the PiS. I heard from the minister that we don't actually have an army, that we don't have an army at all, and we don't have anything to defend ourselves with. Then why the 12,000 soldiers in the greatest maneuvers? Where did they come from? I understand they've been called by the new government in the last few months. This law is a continuation of previous laws, a continuation of further centralization. Curators are expected to control the organization of the facilities. There is a difference in competence for the assessment of organisational sheets, and so far the curator has evaluated these sheets, and now approves them. It seems that the Minister does not see the legal difference between opinion and approval. I can see the difference. And the last announced decision, announced two days after the end of the school year, when we were on vacation, the teachers split up. The Minister announces the liquidation of the middle school and the introduction of the 8-year primary school, 4-year high school and 5-year-old technique. I understand that you can have doubts about this reform. People my age are used to the system we were in. 7 or 8 years of elementary school, then 4 years of high school or 5 years of high school, so it might be closer to us, but now there is middle school. They don't function first or second year. The municipalities invested in this middle school. There aren't all connected schools, primary school and middle school. What's going to happen to the buildings that the municipalities have invested in? Here's a proposal to turn what was, and what is, upside down. Can this be done with education? What does it mean to roll over? It means disorganization, it means not only organizational problems, but problems with programs, problems with teachers, some of which will have to go away. It's not true that no one is going to leave, ladies and gentlemen, don't say such things. It's clear to me. This law also provides for the assessment of school heads by curators. So far, he has evaluated the host body, the local government. Now the directors... This is another piece of the whole puzzle. Every 10 years or even every several years, the school system cannot be completely crossed. It can be improved, it can be analyzed and corrected, but it cannot be done in the way you propose. Eliminating middle school... Secondary school is one of the elements of the school system. Private junior high, non-public, that was investment. There are 400 Catholic secondary schools. They'll be destroyed, too. So this system of public education, which largely focused on the introduction of secondary education, is being abolished. So I'm full of fear and I say... I'm worried, but I'm not surprised. The PiS government is centralizing and moving in this direction. The government wants to supervise everything, including primary school or middle school in a small village or small town. It's dangerous. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u275	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my brief speech, I'd like to go a little further. In view of what you have already mentioned here, Marshal Borusewicz, and of what the Minister said a few days ago, I would like to ask you if what awaits us is so important. Because we are about to start a big debate here. I'm not gonna say a fight, but I'm sure we're gonna argue about whether schools of six or eight years are better, whether they're passing a junior high school exam or if high school graduates are equipped with enough knowledge to study. We're gonna argue about that. But regardless of what conclusion we come to, and whether this proposed bill will pass or not, I say one thing: not the system is important, not the system, but the teacher. The school, ladies and gentlemen, is a teacher. You know that from excellent schools of excellent reputation, from schools of excellent equipment, schools in which there are excellent scientific aids, methodical offices, such pupils come out of such schools, and at the same time from the rural school as a storm goes to the next stage of education a young man who does not have everything that the students have. Why is that? Because school is a teacher. At the same school. I'll give you an example from my environment. In the case of one subject, the Olympics are each year, and in the case of the other object barely, barely. Even if they have good grades, the grades they receive do not reflect their level of knowledge. Why is this happening? Because school is a teacher. You know why it wasn't until recently. 'Cause probably not now. It was said with such an appreciation that pre-war teachers, with pre-war internship and education, were only finishing the so-called ones. teachers' seminars, often only after the war they completed their education. Why? Because they emanated knowledge and charisma. I remember, ladies and gentlemen, the 1960s of the last century. My father was the manager. Because then there were no heads of special school to which the survivors of life attended, 15-, 16-year-old students, wounded by war, by surroundings, often by their own parents. I also remember that every Sunday, literally every Sunday, the father of me, the child, put in a wicker basket and with this basket drove around the county, all the towns from which his students came. What were those visits like? Different. Often we were bitten by dogs, often at this morning's hour, unfortunately we met not only a drunk father, but also a drunk mother. However, my father did not go there to talk to them about pedagogy, education, but he wanted to see what environment his disciples were coming from, what needs to be helped, what he could demand and demand from them. I'm talking about this not to encourage someone today to adopt such a system of learning about their students, because there are different times today, because today they don't talk about teaching as a vocation, today they don't talk about teachers not to strike... Because they can strike because there's democracy, even though they're doing better, because they don't have the penny that was until recently, 26 hours a week, only 18 because they're free Saturdays because they have paid health holidays every year. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't force myself to talk about the need to change the system today, I would just call for a fight to restore the ethos of the teacher's profession instead of tearing something down. To get a little... You'll ask how to do it. I think that it would be important to put a sieve of recruitment into this profession first. 'Cause nowhere else... We're the ones who've been told that you're not gonna make it in one direction or another, so you can always be a teacher. This isn't the way. This is not an option for modern Polish education. Only a well-educated teacher guarantees the level of Polish education. And believe me, I would very much like us to speak of modern teachers in the words of a poet who once wrote: "What is the teacher? One of thousands of gray men. No, he's a master who teaches you to love life as you wake it up in other words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u277	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with the fact that I'd like to, if Marshal Marysia Panczyk-Podziej will allow me to sign what she said. Now, a few words to what is being discussed, it is a pity that there is no Professor Wind, I will say a few words about what is the subject of your proposal and what direction we are going. Senator, as I said, if you and your environment believe that by increasing pedagogical supervision, you will improve the quality of Polish education, you are mistaken, as many countries do. I want to say that when you read today's papers, you can see that the wise world is going in the opposite direction, Minister. That's why I've been so tricky asking you what model you choose, French or Finnish, which is you as a man with a lot of training experience closer to you. Well, the Finns, who 40 years ago had one of the worse systems in education, in terms of dissection, knowledge, etc., went in the direction that Marshal Lesser was talking about. There, the basis on which education is to be based is the total autonomy of the local authorities and the total independence of the teacher. I know we may not be able to do this anymore. Someone on the side said to me, "Listen, if the parole officer didn't check, do you know what would happen at school?" I'll give you an example from my town. For 7 years, from 1990 to 1997, I was personally involved in education. Later, of course, I supervised her, but I directly handled it for seven years. I remember the first comprehensive summary, Minister, Director and Senator, the pedagogical supervision carried out a comprehensive examination of the school. As an uneducated person, I have always had this answer: I have passed the whole cycle of education, now my children pass through, my grandchildren will pass by in a moment and I just wish it wasn't a school that goes in the wrong direction, but a school that goes in the same direction as in the Scandinavian countries, especially. Finland. Please note that this will be the supervision, 3 hours of inspection summary: fire extinguishers, well, program Well written, bells regularly ring, etc., and no student information, zero. Of course, we can agree with what you say here, that what concerns the use of the tool, which was the survey, information, went the other way, like a pendulum, from one to the other. I think you're quite right here. But the Polish school today, despite various mistakes, has taken a huge step forward and is not true how malicious they say that it stood over the abyss and took a huge step forward. Polish school today in the assessment of international institutions is a really good school. As I read, it is also so that today Portuguese representatives come to Poland to learn how to create middle school. I would also like to say this so that you take this into account, that it is not the system that creates the quality of education, and certainly not the system of increased pedagogical supervision. The fact that you love a centralist state, in which, as a minister's tool, the curator will carry out supervision and speak what is good and what is bad in school, is the way to nowhere. That's one thing. Second of all, I'm gonna run out of here. The audit concerning non-governmental organisations active in the field of education and the elimination of issues related to the powers of local authorities on an important point is that you introduce an old method, namely that you submit a project, the best would be a parliamentary one, this is not a parliamentary one, you submit a government project, but these most controversial things you introduce when many people from a local institution are either on leave or have left, in any case these people have not been familiar with it. You're making a seemingly minor change, which is that the curator will be giving an opinion on everything that's going on at school, which means he's approving, you can almost say, an organizational sheet. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a return to the system of People's Poland. Why is it likely so? This argument is often made, and the senator also referred to it here, that when a large part of Poles is asked today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd ask the marshal to keep those gentlemen quiet there. It's a question of polls. A large part of Poles, perhaps even the majority, says that the solution is better: 8 Why? Because that's the system they remember. They've heard that middle school is a place where there's aggression. Director, Senator, you know the papers... The greatest aggression is in primary school. Minister, I think we both know that, and if we don't, we'll work it out. With age, aggression decreases. It is smaller in middle school and the smallest in secondary school. These are facts that cannot be denied. Why are we in Poland today, instead of thinking about how to improve elements of bad knowledge, inculcating encyclopedic knowledge, inability to work in a group, lack of leader, lack of skills to work with a project Are we moving towards surveillance? Today, the government will tell you who is good, who is bad. Competition committees. Socializing... well, that's a beautiful password. As a result of this law, we socialize the school, add the minister's representative - No, a very social factor. And the parent... If the minister's representative and the union's representative vote differently, regardless of what this good candidate says... If any of you have never sat on competition committees, I can tell you what it's like. And so it is... [[Those were the old competitions.]] Yeah, old competitions. And these are gonna be different. If we really want to socialize the school, then we have to go in a bold direction: let parents have an advantage in the competition committees. I often hear: yes, but the parents are unprepared. And whose children go there, the minister or the parole officer? No, our children. Investing in a teacher, like the Finns did... For 40 years they worked on raising salaries, training, investing in preparing the teacher for independent work and implementing the complete liquidation of the curator. It was the local governments, together with their parents, without pedagogical supervision, that led to the creation of the best education system in the world. European country... [[Cut it short.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I promised my friend Stanislaw I'd cut it short. I'm on my way, Stanislav, like Pendolino through your town. I want to ask you why you don't like local governments, why you don't love them. You should treat them like partners. It was local governments who invested huge money in education. A government that doesn't love education that doesn't understand it will lead to the collapse of the local community. Only investment in good education will result in good socio-economic development of a given municipality, a given district, a given region. Self-governments who do not understand it have to do lessons, show them good systems that will help them to make decisions related to education. And now two words about Kwidzyn. I'm sorry I'm gonna use the example of my beloved city. I've been in education for seven years. In 1990, education in Kwidzyn was one of the worst in the Elbląskie voivodship, not to mention the Pomorskie voivodship. [[You're overreacting.]] We have decided as a local government to develop education. This investment continues until today, this process is continuous. We have removed politicians, even municipal politicians, from the decision to allocate funds to schools. The school has shaped and shaped the budget according to the number of students. What role should the local government play? Self-government should not act as an overseer together with pedagogical supervision The school's got enough of these overseers. Only the role of the one who helps. A student coming to class I in Kwidzyn is examined by a team cooperating with the University of Warsaw; in class III each teacher gets an opinion about each child. Professor, when she dedicated this book to me, she wrote two examples of opinions, such sentiments. The first one for a teacher who worked badly; his student could not read with understanding, etc. That's what she wrote to him: "Dear Lady" As a rule, ladies teach in classes I.III. Please consider whether it is worthwhile for you to go to another profession or to become educated. And the second entry, such a beautiful card: your students will certainly be people who will occupy the leading positions... [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] I'm almost done, last sentence. Therefore, the role of self-government is to help teachers, to create a development programme, to develop a school, to develop what is relevant to equipment, but also to give instruments, to answer the question whether it is a good school. I used to be a big supporter, today I am a great opponent of such ranking, excessive testing, and this bill goes towards the complete centralization of the Polish school, the return unfortunately of our beloved Polish People's Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. It's an unjustified conclusion, really... You're welcome, Senator Robert Dowhan. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u280	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Senator! I'll make sure it's brief. And I wanted to say something about that, because this bill applies to me, because I happen to have two kids this age, so it's like chessing what they're doing, what they're doing, and it's about me. As a parent I am responsible for them, so I would like to express my opinion here, and she, unfortunately, will not be positive. And as with many things... as sometimes I can agree about what's going on here, so unfortunately I can't agree on this bill. Let me start by saying that once again I'm going to quote what two people said because these are important words. The first person is the former Minister, Krystyna Łybacka, who has said a few sentences, which we should also consider as to what is next with this reform. She said, "With the reform of Minister Zalewski's problem, we have this situation for now: someone invited us to the feast, set the tableware, but we do not know what will be given. We don't know any programming basis, and it's hard to tell what kind of school it's gonna be. We can be sure of one thing. Chaos. The changes are made too quickly, there is no consultation and no one in the MEN seems to care how it all works. These are not flattering words, and my question earlier, Minister, about who it was consulted with and what opinions are available for inspection, was perhaps also a little missed, because another project... In fact, a lot of changes have been made since this project went to the Sejm on 2 June, because it was a project that later changed. And now I don't know if those opinions were about this original pattern or the one we're investigating today. Because you admit that these are two different patterns of this changing bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] They're also disturbing the words of Mr.... I'd ask those two gentlemen too... [[Gentlemen of the Senators, may I have your attention and silence, please?]] On the other hand, I would like to congratulate you, Minister... The city of Kwidzyń, self-government officer, the senator is certainly helping... If you need to find out how to do the school right, how to take care of teachers, how to take care of education, then I think the senator is asking... [[Definitely.]] [[It's better in your head.]] Is your head better? [[Mr. Senator, time is running out. Let's get to the point.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] How many centres do we have, Minister, how many local governments that know how to do good education? I will return to the words of Mr Sławomir Broniar, President of the Polish Teachers' Association, whom I have already quoted, to words which are not favourable either, but maybe I will no longer repeat them. It's not like everything and everywhere can be adapted to what you've come up with. There's always a baby in the end. I've got two kids, too, and I'm sick of these constant changes. Today, it is not really clear whether there will be another amendment of the bill in a moment or a year or six months from now. Because he's learned from experience about what's been going on in the Seym and the Senate for the past six months, where further changes are being made, such as in the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure that we've been discussing a month before, and today we've come back to him... I'm afraid about these amendments and what I heard today, that we'll be back in a month's time and that after the holidays it may not be known whether a 6-year-old can go to school or whether there will be a free choice here, or whether there will be a warrant in this area. Just for a 7-year-old boy, or we're going to go to eighth-grade elementary school. Why change that? Today it all comes down to the fact that there are 12 years of science. Whether it's 8+4 divided by 2 schools, whether it's 4 times after 3, whatever we call it, it's down to 12 years of learning. There can also be 6 years of primary school, 3 years of middle school and 3 years of high school, e.g. High school is also 12 years old. Is it really that important to change names, or isn't it just a change for change? Of course, subjects and ways of teaching are important, it is important that children know foreign languages, mathematics, physics, so that they are at least a little athletic. The question is, what about specialized schools, e.g. those that are aimed at training sports classes. How will they maintain continuity, by age and with the possibilities of further development of the child? Because today we change everything, but we forget that in the end there is this little man who should take a good example. And today he doesn't even know what kind of school he's gonna start and how old he's gonna be, how old he's gonna be, how old he's gonna be when he finishes elementary school or middle school. Well, there's really one big circus tonight. Change for change, just because before the Platform changed the system, and this change took place, so many junior high schools were built, teachers adapted to it, we have new textbooks, a developed teaching system and a proven model, no one complains about it, although there are no excellent programs... So, we're gonna have to change things again today, write new textbooks? No one answered the question of how much it would cost. Minister, has anyone calculated this? Is this included in the state budget? I didn't find that column. If you don't, if you need more money for it, will you be in debt again? Will you raise taxes? Will you introduce another tax, just as you have introduced a bank tax that is not working today, and you will tell us that the banks will not raise the commission and the first commission raised the PKO BP state bank? That's the truth. There's a lot of examples like that. And that's what no one answered. Make a change for change How can you do that? I will quote the words from the letter of one of the mothers I found in the correspondence. My daughter, 2005, just graduated fifth grade. In kindergarten Six months of horror. Is he fit for school or not? The curatorium washed our hands, and we parents had to make our own decisions: to run away from high school and start school at the age of 6 or to leave a child in kindergarten with children a year younger. The counselor advised: if the class is uniform in age, let it go to school. It's a mess with other things along the way. It's a shift in the fourth grade. The 6-year-old class was the smallest and divided between the others. The girls in the year 2005 went to class with the boys in the year 2004. This is the only class in school where only boys get certificates with stripes. The girls are younger and can't stand the competition. Now the reform is about to take over this year's yearbook again. What is it and what should I do next? That's what the mothers of children have a problem with, Minister. It's not like you upstairs, in the ministry, you're gonna sit down, you're gonna write something, you're gonna make some adjustments, you're gonna answer, you're gonna tap, you're gonna write something, you're gonna make some adjustments, you're gonna answer, you're gonna tap, and then it's gonna be done... How many teachers are gonna lose their jobs? Are you sure no one's gonna lose their jobs? I'm not so sure. What's gonna happen to those buildings that won't be needed today? Will the government have to hold on to it? What's going to happen in these buildings? Isn't it better to take advantage of what's already there, go into some extra activities, even sports activities? Because that's what's missing, because today young people don't practice or play sports after school, they play some electronic games on iPads. I will vote against this bill, and I hope that this bill will return to consultation and be amended, and then perhaps in a different form... I'm sending senators' colleagues to Bleba, to Kwidzyn after... [[You used your time, it's been 10 minutes, you cheated. Now Professor Wach, I like him.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...science. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u281	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And silence, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My attitude towards this law is also very critical, especially for such fundamental reasons. This is further centralization, as in various areas of life, which is not actually conducive to enlightenment. This is strengthening the role of curators, actually having a strong impact on the selection of directors, which means control over school heads. It's not good for education either. With regard to the funding by local authorities, this is the part in this law that defines various important issues, and that is probably correct. But what is the financial impact for local governments, we did not find out. Nevertheless, it can be assumed that bypassing the second phase of consultation with local governments also works in such a way that local governments would be even more pleased to get rid of the funding of education, they would get rid of education, which is changing all the time. And actually, it's all going to be a full centralization, and it's going to be in a planned way. It's all together... Well, I wouldn't say it's the return of the Polish People's Republic because it offends you. Nobody here is going to do that. But what we're talking about here is an organization of a country that I don't agree with. I don't know what to call her. I think during our further reforms I will find a term. Right now, I'd be doing this. He called enlightened feudalism something like that. It's just not going the right way. This whole wrong bill, which I'm co-conceived to reject, contains a few good solutions. The arbitration panel is a good solution. She was actually created to prevent legal proceedings in administrative courts. Because the first processes have already taken place. So that this solution will probably work. The photograph of work is a certain detail. Allowing photography and this photograph as evidence, as material in cancellation is a good solution, because it actually settles certain disputes, allows you to do the correct description. Besides, I imagine that in the appeal there may be an issue concerning amendments made by the student or the reading of numbers or letters, errors, etc. Here we have to admit that this solution is suitable and actually good. Now... Only with regard to this bill. I asked here about the possibility for the Minister to revoke arbitration from the list of arbitrators. I think it's the record that's in the mouth. 8 in point 1 of the preamble to the arbitration proposal is wrong, but it does not matter much. It is bad because it should be written because of the resignation of the arbitration. Because arbitrage can... I mean, if there's a few of us arbiters, then theoretically, one can ask for the other's appeal. And according to the law, the minister should cancel it then. This is a mistake. Now, I'm going to give the last few sentences a general issue, which doesn't really apply to the bill, but everyone's talking about it, so I'm going to let myself talk about the general reform, too. And the relationship is that, as my predecessor said, constant changes in education cause problems, expenses and confusion of parents. When it comes to the planned liquidation of junior high, I would say this: I would actually, I would say, trade. The minister was quite right here when he said that since Mirosław Handke, who introduced reform with junior high, many realities have changed. And that's the truth. This argument of the Minister is correct. And I'd trade it. And I wouldn't actually argue about the costs and the mess involved. For introducing a 6-year-old school obligation. Because then there would be a profit. Now it's gonna be 8+4 and the kids are gonna be so old again before they get any education before college. In my time... I started when I was seven, about the same system as we're proposing right now. Only then it was seven years of elementary school. And it was pretty much the same. But in the case of mandatory starting at the age of 6 there would be no such time loss and such overly adult, mature high school graduates after graduation. I think we're gonna talk a lot about this; when this is over, we can predict, but today we started it, and I'm gonna honestly say that I would trade back to the six-year-olds for a uniform school... What's her name? Primary? [[Voices from the hall: Universal.]] It's common, not basic. The basic one was the seven-year-old I went to, and this one would be common. So, ladies and gentlemen, actually, I have a critical relationship with this, and I maintain my motion to reject the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u283	Thank you very much, Senator. And now, sir, Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that on 8 March 1990 the Sejm adopted a law on local government. Now it's the municipal government law, but then it was about local government. Then, in 1999, we remember this, there were also counties and large voivodships. And we're 25 years after this self-government reform, and most of us have confidence in self-government. He knows that the government has done well, he knows that the local government cares about every dollar, he knows that he can spend that money, and he knows all these things well. When it comes to primary school, middle school, we know who the lead organ is. When it comes to high school, the counties, we know what it looks like. It's all sorted out somehow. And now we're trying to make a difference. And the question is, is it in the right direction or would it be in the wrong direction? I'll start with six-year-olds. I can't tell you that I have a son who goes to school, but I have a grandson who is 6 years old and starts education in September. And of course I'm glad it's going to go, but I know that in connection with the withdrawal of this reform, which has been being prepared for many, many years... It wasn't like now that the government says it's gonna end junior high next year. It's been prepared for some years. The schools were really prepared. The curator in my voivodship drove, checked, there was information that 96, 97, 95% schools are very well prepared for this reform. Well, have these good governments come, or, as we say, a good change, so what did it turn out to be? That this reform was completely turned upside down. Now you've started to change the education system bill. Of course, we can commend you because some of the changes are good and probably good for it to come into force, but they're not that significant changes. Eventually, this M.A., it's been impossible so far... It would really be good if we could appeal, check, take a picture, no matter what the method is, but there's a way someone with a grudge could verify it... And that's what we can agree on. But those other changes that... the way you're making this, what you're trying to do... This exam is a question of debate... But is it necessary? Is it necessary at this point to make such changes when we know that there will be another one in the near future, and this is a fundamental reform that will probably be very loud, but the Minister has definitely announced it? She's tearing down everything that's been created so far. Self-governments will be burdened with new issues, new tasks. I had an opportunity to talk to a few of my uncles the day before yesterday, but one lady from a small community tells me that she has one primary school, one junior high school, long commutes, teachers who will be fired from this school will have trouble because where they will go to work, and it is known that when there will be an 8-grade school, it will be one year. So you can see the organizational problems. I'm not talking about buildings anymore, it was all about that. I mean, new, beautiful objects built... And, ladies and gentlemen, we think that something is permanent, that such reforms should be carried out well in advance, with some plan, and it turns out that further changes will be proposed, at a rate that will certainly destroy what has been done so far. And the fact that we don't appreciate local governments. I think that the current government has absolutely no confidence in the government, which is why it does everything in this direction to have as much influence as possible on everything. Here we see this approach to directors, even to acting director, everywhere, we just have intervention everywhere, everything is to be under government control. It's never gonna work. We need to have some trust, and we need to know that the government can, too, and if it can't do something wrong, it's controlled too. If the resolution is taken improperly, it is the voivode who issues the supervisory decision on the resolution and corrects it, corrects it. So it's not like the government isn't under control. Therefore, the burden of reform, this next reform, will, in my opinion, fall back on local governments. What's the most painful thing about self-government people I'm talking to? The fact that they find out somewhere in the press, from the newspaper, that the Minister offered something like this on Monday. In the meantime, it is so important, so fundamental a change, because without local governments it will not be done, that such decisions should be taken after consultation, after discussions. We need to discuss this and we need to work it out at a certain time. It won't be done by September or October. This consultation will only be a fictional consultation, nothing more. Of course, in this situation, as I said, given that this bill is partly good, but with the spectrum of these changes that will continue... This is a bill that has been amended many times, this amendment is again some pages of all this... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. It's been six minutes. Good. Anyway, I can't imagine that we can make such mistakes that we can still lead to some castles, some changes, not quite thought out. That is why, of course, with regard to this bill, I also declare that I will vote against. And I'm waiting for what happens in the fall. [[This bill is good.]] I said that part of it is acceptable, but it is not possible to make changes now, in a situation where in September or October we will correct this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will start with a question that I have already raised in my questions, because it will be an example, a basis for a further short discussion. Well, in the bill that we are debating today, we give another authority to the curator who represents the government. Namely, the curator is to evaluate the organizational sheets. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that most of the laws, I didn't count how much it was, but most of the laws that we are debating in this term of office, are laws whose main axis is centralization of the state. What does that mean? This means that we transfer a lot of competences that belonged to government or other entities, we transfer power to government institutions. That creates a pretty dangerous situation. Let's see who it is, who's representing the government. The government is represented by officials. So we assume, stately, that these officials are smarter than the rest of the nation and that they are going to say what is right and what is right. You are breaking the fundamental principle of the democratic state, the rule of law, namely the principle of subsidiarity. The state enters only where citizens cannot or cannot organise themselves. And where citizens can organize themselves, the state should not enter. You say: historical policy, education policy. I'll tell you honestly, I'm scared. We see politics everywhere, and we see you overseeing the citizen in every action, in every little action. I would like Poland to be a country in which there is as little politics as possible in which citizens feel free and free, in which citizens decide what they can do. I would very much wish that Polish children could go to such schools and learn according to such programs as their parents wish, not according to such programs as the state imposed in advance. [[Like a referendum.]] Unfortunately, this law pushes us towards democratic centralism, in which I was once given to live and in which I no longer wish to live. I will therefore vote against this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u287	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u288	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am delighted that today we are making another good change in education, we are proceeding with changes in the education system law. These changes are caused by the many voices of the educational community. Thank you very much to the Ministry of National Education, headed by Minister Anna Zalewska, for such a constructive, global and substantive discussion about education and a look at Polish education. I am now going to address a few issues concerning the contested law, the ones that I am most pleased with. Firstly, strengthening the role of curator and pedagogical supervision. Two school authorities: the host body and the supervisory authority are talking about pedagogical supervision. We are already behind the great role of the education curatorium and the Ministry of National Education in the liquidation of rural schools, which I am an absolute opponent of. The village school is very often the heart of a given village and cultural and educational centre in this village. Secondly, the opinion of the organisational sheets. Opinion, not approval, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Let me quote an article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The education curator, on behalf of the voivodship, performs the educational tasks and competences set out in the Act and separate regulations in the voivodship area, and in particular In addition to schools and institutions run by ministers, as regards their compliance with the rules presented by schools and institutions prior to the approval of the sheets, it is now subject to point 10b. The sheets shall be approved by the managing authority, of course, because the managing authority shall allocate funds to the operation of the establishment concerned. Come on. When it comes to strengthening the role of the curator, about the competition committees, there has been a lot of talk about it here. Increase the number of representatives of the education board to 3 but at the same time increase the number of representatives of parents and teachers to 2. Evaluation of the school principal's work... I'll stress that the principal of the school is primarily a teacher. You're a teacher, you're a director. Teacher supervision body Hence this assessment of the school principal's work In agreement, of course, with the host body... Another point, very important: a sixth-grade test. I have already stressed very strongly at the committee meeting that for many years, when I was a school principal, I strongly stressed the need to eliminate this test. He doesn't give anything, he doesn't bring anything. Very often it actually caused the ranking of schools. Of course, ranking schools is important and important, but in many respects, not just in terms of the dry result of the test. Unfortunately, it was very often the case that schools in a given village were ranked on the basis of a dry result. And now, in the context of the elimination of the sixth grade test, I'm going to address Senator Dowhan because Senator Dowhan asked about the costs. That's, among other things. 12 million zlotys of savings, because that's what this test cost. Another important issue, the third one, is taking pictures of the work and appealing to the result of the prom exam. The College of Examination Arbitration is important and very good that we are talking about this today. And when it comes to photographing works, it's a lot easier. After all, every student has the right to see a card, a test, a classwork, so why couldn't he photograph and see his work later? So far, of course, he may have had insight into this work, but he had to write down or rewrite what he had done and could not photograph. The fifth important aspect that has not been mentioned here today, but I think it is worth mentioning, is making it easier for students coming from abroad. This is a very important part of this change. To conclude, I would like to thank you again for the changes we are working on here today. I also want to thank Senator Dowhan for quoting this quote, the lady's statement, because this statement shows a lot about the introduction of six-year-olds to school. There was a lot of criticism about what happened. I think that voice sounded here. Of course, I am in favour of these changes and will vote for them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u289	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have to invite my previous speaker to my town to talk to this over 100-person group of parents whose children didn't get a place in kindergartens. Congratulations on your well-being. There are thousands of towns like this, I assure you. So it's not like you can only do something in education based on your own beliefs. All changes in education are therefore sensitive to the future, and it is the future of those we should care most about. We should therefore have eyes forward and be based on reliable, good analyses. All over social policy And I think it's mostly in education. We should be based not on desire, not on intentions, not on sentiments, not on memories of how great it was in our youth, but on what will be needed in the years of dozens, dozens, and on what others do to get ahead of, not just to keep up. As for this presentation, I tried to question the senator and the minister, and I screamed that I was not getting an answer. You have not presented any studies, no arguments in the case of key solutions. It is clear that when it comes to increasing the role of curators, it is a political decision, not supported by absolutely no need. She's just gonna complicate the lives of her parolees, and she's gonna get extra people hired. Nothing else. That's all it's gonna do, and it doesn't come from anything. There's also a question of some manner, some way, and a patent that the state... I'm not saying that you invented it, and I'm not saying that the predecessors didn't, but it's consistently used. In order to avoid the consultation process, the key changes are being made in the final phase of the work in the Sejm. I don't suppose the Minister would say that he didn't support these changes, that he didn't know that he disagreed with them. I am convinced, and I would like to express this belief that you have intended this from the beginning. And you brought them in so that there would be no opposition from those we should care about. Yeah, this bill is causing such emotions today, because we're going over it a few days later, after the announcement of a general change plan. But I will respect what the marshal asked you to do, but first of all, to refer to what is here. This bill is a sign of what you are aiming for. The password that has been repeated many times here is centralization. Minister, you said you worked in education for so many years, so you probably remember the times when I worked in education. Then the schools were indeed subject to the ministry. We didn't even have time for chalk, there was no money for nothing. There was a mess and misery. When did the progress begin? After the schools were handed over to local governments. Well, centralization has already been and has not worked. Don't go that way. Education is too serious to be handed over to the officials themselves. Education is our national, common task for which allies need; the biggest one is the local government and it is it that we need to invite. What is the disadvantage of the education system I don't know if the director will agree with me. There's already a dual power today. If local governments set requirements, they were entrusted not only with the management, administration of schools, not only with investment processes, but actually with the role of host and full responsibility, then the sense of curatorial control would be greater. I agree with that. However, I would absolutely disagree with the argument here that responsibility should be shared; it has never been done, and no one will recover. It's a dead end, you shouldn't do that. The greater role of self - government, as indeed the greater role of parents This should be the message of the general changes that need to be made. The ones you're preparing, I'm afraid. After this submission, they have a completely different direction. The school really needs changes, big changes, and you don't announce them at all. It said here that the school is a teacher. Will anyone deny it? Is this teacher properly assisted today? [[There it is.]] Does he take good care of him? Is he properly trained? Is it properly rewarded? No. [[After eight years, he should have.]] Well, then... [[The state ruled eight years.]] Yes. After 4 years of raising, you don't expect them, but up to inflation... [[But the last few months... the senator's talking about the current...]] It's a shame you put the brake on. [[You're talking about the current state, Mr. Senator. You're giving yourself an opinion!]] It's a shame you stopped marching in this direction. Special educational needs need to be taken care of. I've reminded you of that many times. What are you doing? [[We care, we just gave it a chance...]] First you stick to the concept of card hours, which offends directors and teachers, indicating that they played cards instead of teaching. [[Oh, no!]] Ladies and gentlemen, these hours were to be spent on extracurricular activities, most of the schools were. Now they can only be, but they don't increase. It is a great disgrace to the Polish school that a dozen percent of students get a certificate of transition to the next class without mastering the material. The system finally spits them out for unemployment. That's what it looks like. Finally, I would just like to say one sentence on this general change. Many times you came here with thick papers and said: The platform doesn't count with people's voice, doesn't listen to them, collected so many signatures. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that Law and Justice intends to throw in the basket 200 000 signatures collected by associations and 250 000 signatures collected by the Polish Teachers' Association. That's a good change. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Applause]] [[Why didn't you scream when you guys were in charge... 2 million signatures...]] [[You threw 2 million signatures in the trash.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u291	Please take the floor of Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The session is passing, which could be called a national meeting, during which we followed the 3rd act in which this adjective kept changing. We're finishing the education bill. Among the changes... We are likely to strengthen the role of the state in running schools, organizing this school's life, in setting up directors. [[Good.]] The schools, which are the result of these good changes, are about to begin to implement a uniform programme for the whole of Poland. Previously, we have examined the creation of a National Media Council, a council to establish and cancel public radio and television bodies and the Polish Press Agency. We have already called it for media, whose national adjective resulted in the loss of work for 172 journalists... sorry, 173, because Jarosław Kret from Gdańsk TV also lost his job. We also called members of the College of National Remembrance Institute. We did it in a way known from a long time ago. All newly appointed members represent a single party: the Law and Justice, a party of a good change, which itself granted a monopoly on the national one and a good change. All the new members appointed to the College of IPN declare their readiness to actively form and participate in the education of young people and Poles in general, of course, in education in national spirit. High Senate, there is a meeting at which, under another noble national adjective, there will be a policy of building awareness and education of Poles according to the models of one-party ideology, creating non-civil society, for which we have worked intensively for a quarter of a century, including very intensively for the past 8 years, and an ideologically indoctrinated society, according to: institutions from all over Poland, let us join in building a unanimous nation. I hope, High Senate, that this idea, as well as the whole effort of mono-party unraveling the history of Poland, the media and education As an effort previously practiced in different countries and in different nations, including the Polish nation It will not produce the expected results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u293	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gazwada.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I was even provoked to do this because I think we are really talking about very serious things. I must stress that my predecessor, who emphasized so much that we are destroying, that we are not talking to the local government, that we are not proposing that we are not having a dialogue, has actually forgotten that for 8 years the previous government has not listened to those who have signed more than 2 million signatures, and threw them in the basket, and has forgotten who has said that the state does not exist. I would like to ask today: who said publicly or maybe not quite publicly, but in conversations that the state does not function? [[Kaczynski?]] We are talking about very responsible things, but above all about the foundation, because there are words here that we ignore local governments, and we are actually open to the needs of local governments. It is in this law that the provisions concerning the grant of kindergartens and other forms of pre-school education and non-public institutions are clarified. The predecessors talked about it, but they didn't. [[Because they were preparing...]] Both in this law and in the announcements of the changes we are talking about concrete things. First of all, Minister Zalewska has consulted all planned changes for over six months. This is done really on the way of responsibility primarily for the future of our children. I'd like to get back to the basics here. Of course, the government, the ministry, the local government, finally the school principal and the teacher, we're all important, they're all important in this education system. But the fundamental question is who's the most important. Well, the most important thing is the student. And this bill, and these changes, and these announcements really refer to what is the foundation: to the needs of the disciples of our country. I had to perform, and I have to say this because I grew up in a family like this that my mom was 38 years old working... But then, in my deep conviction, there was one fundamental goal, and at this point I would like to stress it. He was, I repeat, one fundamental goal: regardless of how the education system was shaped, I have always observed in this action as a little boy that the target was a student, regardless of the conditions in which she was taught And I want to stress very strongly that today we are not talking about coming back. Today we're talking about reaching to the foundations, to what's most important, to get a student through primary school, middle school and high school. A well-organized professional school was well prepared for an adult life, well prepared to either perform a professionally good job in a good professional school or continue to study and be treated in an equal way. I will remind you of a sentence that was published by Professor Roman Dolata, Professor of the Institute of Educational Research, who says simply: "The Handke Reform was supposed to equalise the odds, but it made two educational systems work in parallel with us." It's a non-eventering system. That is why we are talking about a very important issue here. And I call for this bill to be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u295	Thank you very much. Senator Wind. You're welcome. [[Kaziu, you have five minutes, you know that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This speech wasn't planned, but there are some strange words here, and I have to say that I have such a far-reaching cognitive dissonance. Because, on the one hand, I hear today, even just now, calling for the principle of subsidiarity of the state, and at the same time millions of signatures for referendums have been thrown into the basket, and I have already talked about it today. So let's have a measure. In what we say. But I'd really like to comment on Senator Augustine's statement. What you're saying is the height of hypocrisy. I don't want to use other epithets... You talk about the poor situation of teachers and their neglect after eight years of government you supported. So where have you been for eight years? Today, for the second time in this House, the senator spoke about a system that he spits out. Senator, you can't say that. I have already pointed this out to you once, and today I am considering submitting an application to the Rules of Procedure Committee. 'Cause you can't say that. Who's the system spit out? I'm asking you, senator, who's the system spit out?! And I would just like to add that it is said that in September the changes are made, and when is the consultation? Well, the consultation has been going on since February. Of course, I am talking about the speech of Minister Zalewski in Toruń. So before the announcement of this concept there were many meetings, 16 voivodship conferences, many others. And the consultation was, only if you don't want to see them, it's said they weren't there. That is why I thank once again Minister Zalewska and the Government for their decision on the six-year-olds and for the changes we are looking for, for the announcement of good structural and programme changes. Thank you very much for these announcements. It's an announcement of a good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u297	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u298	Professor, you're actually right. I was here in the Senate. I talk about the fate of children with special educational needs most often, always when we are considering the Ombudsman's report. I always use about the same rhetoric to move. I see you're moved by that. I think that's what's been achieved. The point is not to go on the agenda over the fate of children who, without mastering the material, go to the next class and in most schools cannot expect enough support. [[No, he doesn't.]] And it's not the school's fault or the teachers' fault, it's the fact that there's not enough resources to work with them individually with professionals. [[That's not true.]] These schools, which had these unhappyly called card hours well used, informed me that it was incredibly possible to achieve a lot with these children if this work was actually individualized. And that should be the duty of the system. That's what I meant. And if I used strong words, not for the first time and not just today, it's just to open my eyes to a common phenomenon. I'm asking you again, maybe for the fifth time, maybe the sixth time. From this place: Who does not know that this is the case? The parents don't know, the faculty doesn't know, the board doesn't know, the board doesn't know, the probation officer doesn't know? We all know, but we're not doing enough. And as for the fact that over the past years, in difficult dialogue, a multi-annual plan has been established to increase unsatisfying but agreed with the Polish Teachers' Union... And it's a shame we haven't been able to continue this in the last year of our reign... [[That's too bad.]] ...but there's been a good change. I therefore understand that we now have the right, as you did before, to demand that the teacher earn a lot, a lot, to make it so What was the Senator talking about here? As in Finland, where in terms of earnings it is the top of the country's earners. Finland is also at the forefront in terms of the outcomes of education in Europe and even in the world. So I don't see anything unusual about it. I do not whitewash what was there, but I encourage you to do more because there is a lot to do, I repeat, in the Polish school. [[Then we'll do it.]] There is no need to discourage anyone from engaging, especially local governments, but to do everything possible to ensure that schools receive allies so that they can function better than today. So that I hope, Professor, that after these explanations, you understand my concern better, my intentions. I don't know if you share them. [[I don't share.]] My government didn't share them, and the spokesperson for the rights of the child admitted that the phenomenon is on a large scale, but he doesn't have any tools. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Please get to it, because, I repeat, this is a thing that shouldn't leave us alone. It's worth getting involved with. It is not enough to say that all children are ours, it is not enough to say that we want to create a level playing field, it is necessary to adopt the principle that I have advocated here: that those whose family, nature, environment has given less, the education system wants to give more. And this is certainly possible, as it reaches to Wrocław's very good experience in working with students with special educational needs. Because self-government is also a place of many pedagogical innovations. [[And I was hoping you'd apologize.]] If I upset you, I'm sorry. [[No, not me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u299	Thank you very much. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. There are no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. According to Marshal Karczewski's decision, I declare... [[Voice from the room: Still a message.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u300	Immediately after the adjournment of the session in room 217, a meeting will be held between the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health on the amendments tabled to the Law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, and the Act on the Rights of Patient and Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u301	I'm declaring a two-hour recess, followed by a vote. [[Voice from the room: Half an hour?]] Two hours. This is the Marshal's decision. [[Voice from the room: Half an hour?]] [[Voice from the room: 2 hours.]] Once again, I am announcing a two-hour recess, according to Marshal Karczewski's decision. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 46 to 20 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u302	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the Amendment of the Law. Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Health, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is published in print No 201 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u303	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health in print 201. The Commissions at its meeting today on 29 June 2016 discussed the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code, the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist, and the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson. The committees put forward the following position to the High Senate: the committees did not support any of the proposals submitted. During the committee's deliberations there was a vote on the self-correction to the amendment previously tabled. This amendment has been accepted. In addition, 4 minority applications were submitted. Please accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u304	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask the High House to accept the amendment under which Article. 1 point 3 shall be deleted and Article 3 shall be deleted. 2, Article 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 6. This is the first amendment. Amendment 2: 1 point 5 is deleted. Amendment 3: in Article 1 in point 5, in Article. 360 paragraph 2 is deleted. And the last amendment, Amendment 4: 1 in point 5, in Article. The following second and third sentences shall be added: "A person who has applied for prosecution may lodge a complaint against the prosecutor's opposition to its request to exclude the transparency of the hearing. The complaint is dealt with by the court. I call for these amendments to be adopted. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u306	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Aleksander Bobko, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek and Mr Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Piotr Zientarski was rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Health. I don't hear any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 25 against, 54 against. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I declare that we are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 deletes the provisions amending the rules on repealing medical confidentiality from the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 28 votes against, 45 against and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 seeks to remove from the law new provisions governing the exclusion by the court of the open court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 25 against, 52 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 3 deletes the provision empowering the prosecutor to object to the order of the court to exclude the disclosure of the hearing. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 25 against, 52 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 4 provides for the right to lodge a complaint against a prosecutor's objection against a decision which has been ruled out by the court. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 25 against, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Senator Kraska reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u307	Mr. Marshal, according to the article. 54 §1 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u308	Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 52 votes against, 25 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and the Dentist, and the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsman. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. A minority of committees requested the bill to be rejected; Senate print No 215 A. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 24 for, 55 against. [[Voting No 10]] The motion to reject the law was rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 54 votes against, 25 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21st Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will be held on 6 and 7 July 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? You're welcome, Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, On 23 July 2015, the Polish authorities submitted to the European Commission documentation on the planned investment, the construction of the channel by Mierza Wiślana, in order to give an opinion on this project under the Environmental Directive. Without the Commission's positive opinion, it is virtually impossible to implement the investment. However, the information provided by the European Commission shows that it cannot deliver an opinion as the Polish party did not provide the additional information requested by the Commission in March this year. Therefore, I ask for information. Firstly, at what stage are the agreements with the European Commission on the project of the construction of the canal by the Vistula Land? Secondly, from numerous statements by the Minister and representatives of the government from January to April this year, it appears that the Government of the Republic of Poland is in contact with the European Commission and the issue of obtaining an opinion requires only minor additions. However, according to the media information referring to the European Commission, the Commission has not received the documents expected since March this year. What, then, is the facts? Does the Commission have all the data needed to express its opinion? Thirdly, if the Commission does not have such data, what information does the Commission not have and until when will these documents be provided to the European Commission? Fourthly, is additional studies or environmental reports taken into account, and if so, when they are carried out, how long will they take and will their preparation endanger the completion of the channel by Vistula Mill? Fifthly, what is the real date for the construction of the canal by the Vistula Mill today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Klein will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda and to the Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The subject of my statement is a summary of Polish-German relations 25 years after the Polish-German treaty on good neighbourliness and friendly cooperation of 17 June 1991. The assessment of 25 years of bilateral Polish-German relations has recently become the subject of emotional assessments, in which there are difficult or unsolved problems at the centre, while the overall balance of these years of cooperation remains almost unnoticeable. The negotiation of the treaty 25 years ago took place in difficult international conditions. The symbol of this was the re-entry of Chancellor Helmut Kohl to Poland, interrupted by internal events in Berlin related to the fall of the Berlin Wall, which would lead to the unification of Germany. Poland was then liberated from Soviet domination. Time was most uncertain, and our negotiating position was quite difficult. Despite this, Prime Minister Jan Krzysztof Bielecki and Chancellor Helmut Kohl signed a treaty whose main purpose was reconciliation, agreement and cooperation, including our European aspirations. It is worth recalling that these beginnings of our independence were also accompanied by great negotiations with Germany regarding finally recognition as final borders in the Nysa Łużycka and Odra. This treaty was signed on 14 November 1990 and it is worth pointing out once again that the signing of this border treaty was a condition for the unification of Germany. 1991 is also the year of the establishment of the Polish-German Cooperation Foundation, which for 25 years played an extremely important role in matters related to Polish-German proximity. After years Polish diplomats openly mention that there was no chance to implement all the demands, the alternative was an unsigned treaty. Negotiations between partners with significant asymmetric potential are never easy. Among the cases causing the most emotions today is the issue of recognition of the Polish minority in Germany and restitution of our cultural goods. These are probably difficult points that require us to continue with our German partners, but seeing 25 years of partnership only through these 2 issues is a very serious mistake. It should also be noted that the change at the top of Poland's power last year, contrary to appearances, does not mean a significant change in Polish-German relations, at least said by leading Polish politicians, talking about relations with Germany as one of Poland's strategic partners in Europe. It has been expressed repeatedly by the President and the Prime Minister. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also draws attention to the very high level of Polish-German economic relations. Few people remember that we trade with Germany at a level higher than Germany trade with Russia. The existence of disputed or controversial problems is not a contradiction of generally extremely favourable and high level of economic and political contacts between Poland and Germany. Unfortunately, some political decisions of recent months have not been conducive to strengthening our European position, including in Polish-German relations. In terms of reconciliation and agreement, the best measure is to change the attitude of Poles towards Germans and Germans towards Poles. 25 years ago Poland was perceived as a country with major economic problems And it was a country like this. The poor, backward, upbuilding democracy. Today, among all the associations with Poland, there are these positive ones connected with our country as a place of spending holidays, meeting places and cooperation. Germans come to mind well developed Polish big cities such as Warsaw, Kraków, Gdańsk, Wrocław, and attractive tourist regions such as Mazury, Silesia, Krkonoše Mountains and Pomerania. Previous frequent associations with negative phenomena, such as the tendency to abuse alcohol or the Polnische Wirtschafts, have actually completely disappeared from the list of current associations with us. A lot has been written and written in the past by Dr Agnieszka Łada, who publishes an annual assessment of the attitudes of the Germans towards Poles and vice versa. This relationship, which I mention, dates back to June 2016. Poles now associate Germany as a neighbour, increasingly less frequently in the context of war, and as a country with a high level of prosperity. Traditionally, in many of our associations Germany is pointed out as a developed country, with a strong economy, good organisation and as an important labour market for our citizens. Today, Chancellor Merkel herself is most often associated in the context of the migration crisis, and less in the context of a functioning policy, as it was before. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] In terms of cooperation, the summary of the 25th anniversary balance is rather impressive. At that time Poland moved from the third dozen countries of the German economic partners to position 7. Bilateral turnover is approaching EUR 100 billion. Polish employees highly appreciate the German investment presence in Poland, which created tens of thousands of attractive jobs, with new on the way, prepared by Volkswagen or Mercedes. The German economy also becomes a slowly attractive place for us to expand abroad of many native Polish companies, such as: Orlen, Comarch, Ciech, Ergis, Kopex, Asseco, Borishew and many others. German investors... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...directly and indirectly, they are the main foreign investors in Poland, and Polish customers are happy to benefit from the German commercial offer. In this context, it should be stressed that Polish exporters have for many years appreciated the possibilities of the German market, which, although very demanding, has enjoyed significant dynamics of our exports for years, which has been particularly important in the event of the collapse of traditional markets in the east. Incredibly... [[Mr. Senator, it's been eight minutes...]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm aware of that. Sekundek, I'm just gonna finish. No, two sentences. [[Good.]] I think it's important. I don't waste any time, as you know, but it seems that the case is important enough, at least for me, that I would like to finish this text I have prepared. An extremely positive balance of our 25th anniversary is the development of the most ordinary relationships between people. Millions of Poles and Germans visit each other for tourist and family purposes. There are several hundred partnerships of cities, cooperation between universities, schools, social organisations, orchestras and cultural institutions. The scale of this phenomenon is so large now that no one notices it. Local governments and economic self-governments work together. Germany has been our most important partner in regional cooperation for years. In addition to the extremely positive balance of our cooperation, there are also disputed areas where we have separate positions. We also occupied them before, although it did not come to the headlines. Contrary to appearances, issues of energy policy, climate policy or minority status have been addressed by our diplomacy for years regardless of its political color. The distinction between positions has in the past been perhaps slightly less emphasized by the media. Our diplomacy of more difficult subjects does not undermine our common work, which serves societies on both sides of the Oder. It is extremely important to perceive achievements and problems in the right proportions and in the climate of healthy emotions. Germany is one of our most important European partners. It is a country with an incomparable potential greater than ours, but it treats us in a very serious way. It is also a country that has weakened its partnership with France slightly over the past few years. Here the natural possibility of at least partially filling the gap is created. Let us talk to our German partner astronomically and achieve mutual benefits together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u312	Thank you very much, Senator. I've made a derogation for you... [[Thank you very much.]] ...because you spoke for 12 minutes. [[12? Oh, dear. Thank you very much.]] Yes. [[Divide it into three statements.]] You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u313	Mrs. Marshal, I have three statements. I'm going to the finance minister first. I would like to ask you to inform me whether any work has been carried out in the Ministry of Finance over the years 1989-2015 on the introduction of the so-called. Cadastral tax, i.e. the value of real estate. Please provide detailed information on this subject, including If such work is permanent What periods they concerned and what was the state of progress of these works. The second statement is addressed to the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal! At the 18th Senate meeting, on 19 May this year, I made a statement addressed to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the mission of the members of the Constitutional Tribunal during the years 2011 to 2015, taking into account the country to which the departures took place and the costs incurred by the taxpayer. I inform you that on 19 June I received a written reply addressed to me. However, according to the information I have, the response to the Marshal's hands was not influenced in accordance with the procedure. To this day, Professor Rzepliński's reply has not been posted on websites run by the Senate Office, which I would like to point out is that this reply to your marshal has not been affected. Please inform me about this. The third statement is addressed to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. On 19 May, at the 18th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland, I asked the President for information on the mission of the members of the Constitutional Tribunal in the years 2011 to 2015. I meant travel abroad with a description of who, when and to which countries he was going and what costs the taxpayer was paying. I received a reply from the President on 19 June. It was placed in a senator's locker, but according to my information it was not addressed to the Marshal of the Senate who, in accordance with the procedure, spoke to the President with this statement. I therefore ask the President to inform whether an answer has been given to the Marshal. If it has not been given, I request that the relevant information be provided so that the reply to this statement can be found on the websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u314	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u315	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, the results of the British referendum on exit from the European Union were published. Although this short-term result will adversely affect the situation of Poland in the EU and Poles in the UK, I would like to Just on your behalf, congratulate the British. Congratulations on your courage and determination. As the first state, you have made a clear stand against the sovereignty of European bureaucracy, the dictatorship of the worldview imposing unacceptable moral patterns on the peoples of Europe, the destruction of the identity of individual societies. I hope that the decision of the British people to leave the Union will be a bucket of cold water poured on the burning heads of supporters of one European country. Unreal ideas of Eurocrats, unfortunately, implemented, as you can see, have only one effect The escape of nations where senseless experiments are carried out. The projects of self-proclaimed European architects, rather than greater integration, are increasingly devoid of reality, creating chaos and disintegration. This is because an attempt to build a single European state with a top-down ideology of political correctness is contrary to the fundamental desire of nations to self-determination. The right of the nation to govern itself in its own country, to choose its own path of development, is as natural in Europe as in other parts of the world; unfortunately, in Europe and only there, it is now so strongly questioned. I believe that in the long term the outcome of the British referendum will be beneficial for Poland. Her voice in Europe of homelands will be stronger, and the fetish of European integration will be converted into real economic cooperation, in line with our interests. And only on her, not on forced absorption contrary to the Polish identity, foreign cultural patterns. My second statement is addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Paweł Szalamacha. Dear Minister, The Government of Law and Justice, of which you are a member, is implementing a very ambitious reform plan, which is accepted by society and which gives this government great support to this society. Your resort is particularly important in this plan, and is responsible for providing funding for individual projects, e.g. The flagship currently 500+. If this money is not enough, first of all, some intentions will not be realized, second of all, because of the drastically low influences of the very fact that the rule of law and justice will be able to be effectively challenged. I am therefore concerned about the slowing down of the legislative work carried out in the Ministry. Unfortunately, clear and concrete electoral announcements concerning the sealing of the tax system have not been fully implemented, despite more than half a year's passing, particularly in the area of VAT, from which the proceeds are most depleted. Minister, why has work been going on for so long on the planned and necessary projects? Are you in favour of amending the law currently in force, or of adopting a new VAT law, or even a new system arrangement in the field of tax law? When can we expect the right projects in Parliament? I would also ask you to determine what other legislative purposes, in which areas of revenue of the state budget and when you intend to implement in the near future. My concern is further aggravated by the facts that have been observed in the service of the subordinates for some time. It's about protests in Customs. Its officials oppose the loss of uniform status, which is to take place after the entry into force of the National Tax Administration Act. The rapid acceleration of the work on this law while halting the pension reform for customs officers has led to a collapse of their confidence in the management of the Customs Service and the Ministry of Finance and the ensuing wave of protests. Is it true that border perturbations, customs clearance disorders, Italian strike, increased customs clearance, multi-kilometre queues to border crossing points result in the transfer of admission agents to other EU countries? Is it used so-called. A green wave, which is coercion, pressure to depart from control or exercise it in a cursory manner? How big are the estimated losses, the fall in budgetary revenues associated with this? Is the current time when revenue needs to be maximized to the budget the most appropriate time to make changes to the fiscal apparatus, which is responsible for the direct implementation of this revenue? How does the Minister intend to end this economic disadvantage of chaos at Polish borders? With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-29-senat-21-3.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages... There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 21st Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first 20th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 16]]
