ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u1	I open the twenty-seventh session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet! Please take your seats. We've already begun our deliberations. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and Gentlemen of the Senators, on 2 October 2016 the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Schengen acquis. [[Talking in the O.R.]] On 2 October 2016, Michał Okła, Senator of the 6th and 7th term of office, Member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad, Health Committee and the Committee on National Defence died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its twenty-sixth meeting on 23 September 2016, adopted the only amendment of the Senate to the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate has approved the order of business... [[Voices from the room: No, no, no.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Senator, are you... [[Senator Rulewski's motion...]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u2	I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, I'm unlucky because I didn't hear this sacramental formula in which your marshal calls the senators to complete the order. [[That's why I'm asking you to be quiet.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, I stand here for the second time or even the third with a request to the High House to extend the agenda of this Senate meeting, on the basis of Article. 48 (1) (a) Section 2 (8) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, for the second reading of the draft call to the United Kingdom Parliament. You're familiar with this case. I would add that procedural reasons are in favour of this call already being examined, since today the committees have examined this appeal, they have submitted a report which is available to the senators. But there have also been new circumstances. These are our next citizens, the people of Great Britain, who are victims of physical assault. The pressure that our friends, the citizens of the United Kingdom, also notice is ongoing, that it should be caused by these so-called attacks. Polback to get the Poles back to their country. At the same time, which did not escape our attention, another man was killed, this time a Czech citizen. Prime Minister May, unlike in the case of a Polish citizen, regretted the Prime Minister. And the old circumstance is that Marshal Karczewski assured the House that he had sent Which is the obvious truth. A letter to the British Parliament, but as we learned today at the committee meeting, despite the passing of two months, almost two months, no response came. And maybe the most important thing, the fact that will determine the future. Prime Minister May, the head of the British office, announced speeding up talks about Brexit. This means, firstly, the precarious situation of all those Poles whose legal status is not regulated. Secondly, this means that if there is a delay in this matter, especially the Senate, which is legally and financially assigned to Polish emigration, to the Polish mother, then our actions will be delayed and perhaps chaotic. This sufficiently justifies the urgency and need to resolve the appeal to the UK Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. A meeting of the Senior Convention was recently concluded, where representatives of the Civic Platform Club were also present. They didn't bring it to the meeting... [[Ad vocem.]] They did not request this item to be placed on the agenda. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Jan Rulewski. Is the senator making a formal application on this matter? [[Absolutely.]] Formal conclusion, good. I object, ladies and gentlemen, because Marshal Karczewski proposes that this item be placed on the agenda of the next Senate meeting... [[Voices from the room: He's gone.]] ...so that you can read the committee's report. Because according to the Rules of Procedure, such a report should be submitted to the senators 3 days before the meeting. In exceptional matters... [[In corrigendum mode.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. ...maybe with the senate's consent there will be a shortening of that term. That is why I am about to vote on the senator's request. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Wait, but you're in mode...]] Indeed, it is true that we did not oppose this at the convention meeting, but that was after getting information that there was no report yet. This report has come up, so the circumstances are completely different. Secondly, Mr Marshal did not propose that this item be placed on the agenda of the next meeting, which we also had an opinion on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I put to the vote the motion of Senator Jan Rulewski. Who among you is in favour of putting on the agenda today the Senate meeting on the subject referred to in the request of Senator Jan Rulewski? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? The results of the vote, please. 78 senators voted, 29 for, 49 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The senator's motion was rejected. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I state that the Senate... [[Voice from the courtroom: You're still a marshal.]] Mr. Marshal? You're welcome. But in what mode, Mr. Marshal? [[It's okay. Mrs. Marshal, because we talked at the Senior Convention meeting about a possible addition... I don't know if you've already taken this supplement into account. I don't think so. It's about introducing a law to amend the Military Property Agency Act... isn't it?]] Mr. Marshal, I'll take your word for it. I'm about to read the message about these additions. Okay? [[What I'm trying to say is that I'm going to object to a supplement if we're...]] Mr. Marshal, it's not at this stage. [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, it's not at this stage. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-seventh meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I would like to inform you that at the current meeting of the Sejm, a law was passed amending the Act on the Military Property Agency. Once the senate committee has prepared a report on the matter, the agenda will be supplemented by a point covering its consideration. In addition, in the case of the adoption of the Law on ratification adopted in Paris on 12 December 2015, the Commission adopted a decision on the ratification of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the The Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up in New York on 19 May 1992, and the preparation of reports by the Senate committees on this subject will be supplemented by this item. To consider the fourth item of the agenda: information about the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015 we will proceed tomorrow. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of point one... [[No, no, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Mrs. Marshal...]] But in what mode, gentlemen of the Senators? [[Mrs. Marshal...]] I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Oh, no, I'm sorry.]] Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u6	I'd like to object to the introduction of the Military Property Agency Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u7	Mr. Marshal, which point do you object to? [[Voice from the room: There is not yet this point.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's no point. Which is the point, Mr. Marshal? [[It's okay. If...]] Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u8	I would like to object to the announcement of this point. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u9	The rules of procedure do not provide for this. When this point is introduced, then you will be able to vote in favour, against or abstain. We have now adopted the agenda that has been placed on the senator's bench. You're welcome... Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[I have a question about the order of business.]] Mr. Senator, order has been accepted. I'm not giving you the floor. [[But I didn't understand that, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, order has been accepted. [[Okay, I'm not denying your decision, I just have a question about an extraordinary organization...]] Mr. Senator, I'm not giving you the floor. [[Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal has meticulously followed the rules...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. [[... talking about the need to inform senators, among others. In terms of...]] I'm not giving you the floor. Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal Karczewski has announced...]] Mr. Senator... [[...in the name of the Senate...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a recess. [[The Senate doesn't know anything about this. I'm asking for information from your marshal...]] Dismissed until 11.15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 13 to 11 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on a works concession or service contract. The text of the Act is contained in print No 269 and the committee's report in print No 269 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we are considering a very large government proposal, which I would like to stress very honestly, because unfortunately it is not frequent, but we are all the more pleased about it. It's gone through the entire parliament. First of all, I would like to say that the Ministry was very open to the introduction of corrections, which together we considered to be conducive to the improvement of this law. It happened at the level of the Sejm, which is why... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.]] ...the transfer gained the support of all clubs. And that is also the case with the Senate. During the committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau submitted a great deal of proposals for amendments, and the Ministry welcomed them. The Act implements the 2014 European Parliament and Council Directive on the award of concessions into the Polish legal system. European requirements transform the Polish legal system to the extent that the government considered it necessary to extinguish the previous law, from 2009, and propose a new one. He also decided to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the directive, and much more extend the application of the law as regards the financial threshold. The directive allows it to be applied to a wider extent and therefore not EUR 5 million and EUR 30 000 will be the limit for the application of the law. So to normal, recently adopted Following adjustments The Senate will also select contractors for services, works and public procurement, and the threshold will be the same. The Ministry argued that the public-private partnership, the involvement of private capital in the implementation of socially important investments, is too small. Since 2009, only 90, probably 86, concession contracts have been concluded at national level. We have therefore used this tool very rarely. The new rules are designed to improve this by introducing a lower threshold. The Act did not raise any special controversy in the Senate other than one issue, namely the issue of allowing the use of concessions in the case of in-house contracts. A representative of the Social Dialogue Council spoke about a resolution in which members of the Council demand the application of concessions in this respect, as in the Public Procurement Act. Do you remember that the in-house issue raised a great deal of controversy here in our House, we have devoted a lot of time to it. What is it about employers in particular? For even more transparency, and in particular for maintaining this requirement, which, here in the High House, has been very supportive, so that applicants for public funds, public procurement, in this case concessions, are obliged to employ workers for employment contracts. This requirement is laid down in the Public Procurement Law, but has not been repeated here, even though many provisions are repeated in the case of a concession contract. We discussed this at the committee meeting. Ultimately, no one was prepared to make specific amendments, but the government assured that it was open to supplement the provisions of this law with some of the demands made by the Social Dialogue Council. In my conversation with the representatives of the Ministry, I have been assured that this will take place during the debate. Therefore, our committee recommends adopting such amendments. I think I will express the position of the whole committee, saying that I expect that other requests raised during the debate will also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? How about a senator? Aren't there any volunteers? [[I have a question for the Minister, not the Senator of the rapporteur.]] Oh, I see. No questions to the Senator of the rapporteur? [[There isn't.]] Thank you, Senator. Thank you, senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. We have Minister Witold Słowik, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. The President of the Public Procurement Office, Małgorzata Stręciwilk, is also here. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on this project? You're welcome, Minister. Come over here, to the podium. Come on in, Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[Senator?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur discussed in quite detail the origin of the law on works concessions and services. We actually combine two elements here. One element is the need to implement the EU directive in this area, and the other is equally important, and from the point of view of the Ministry of Development may even be more important, it is that we wanted to prepare regulations aimed at significantly increasing the use of public-private partnerships as an important element of financing the development of the Polish economy and the construction of new infrastructure. We focused on this aspect in our work on this law. It regulates the procedures for the conclusion of concession contracts, describes the concession contract, in particular its amendment, and determines the appeal procedure for the application of the concession contract. An extremely important element is that we have lowered the threshold resulting from the EU directive to EUR 30 000 so that these agreements are applied as often as possible. Because much of the concession contracts concluded in Poland are below this EU requirement. There are also regulations to be as transparent and as friendly as possible when it comes to concluding contracts, and they are also intended to guarantee the certainty of economic turnover in this area. We have a lot of common rules in public procurement law and in the law on works concessions or services, about 1/3 of the regulations are identical. In addition, as regards the supervision of the implementation of the concession, the competent authority is to be the Public Procurement Office. We hope that the implementation of the works concession or service contract will contribute significantly to the development of a public-private partnership. There are 3 basic regulations that are used to conclude public-private partnership agreements: the Public-private partnership law itself, the Public Procurement Law, which has recently been amended, and the Act on works concessions or services is being adopted today. These 3 legal regulations are the foundation of the development of public-private partnerships in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay where you are, because I'm sure there will be questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u14	I agree with the rapporteur that for the first time... I am very pleased that we have been very responsible at the meeting of our Committee on Economic Affairs And I would like to thank the chairman of the committee. If we had discussed all the proposals as we discussed the one that we are talking about here, there would not be so many different repairs and amendments here in the Senate, I think. And that's the first signal I'm very happy about as a senator. Minister, in construction, I've worked about as many years as you are. Excuse me for asking you a few questions. Only for the sake of the development of this branch, which unfortunately has been beginning to die for a year. The first question I have for you is this. In accordance with the provisions laid down in Article. 28 Contracting laws may limit the number of contractors they invite to participate in the concession contract procedure. The conditions are to do so in a transparent manner and on the basis of objective and non-discriminatory criteria, and that the number of contractors which the contracting authority intends to invite will ensure competition. The business environments during the project consultation argued that such a provision is general and creates the possibility of abuse. These environments indicate that it is appropriate to allow as many contractors as possible in order to ensure fair choice of the most advantageous offer. I would therefore like to ask the reasons for this legal solution, as I have personally consulted this issue with many entrepreneurs, but I also have doubts myself. And while I'm at the vote, I'd like to ask you a second question. As far as consultations are concerned, especially with the local government, construction companies and construction chambers... Are these entities well informed whether they are prepared for these future solutions and are they fully aware of this? Were these public consultations properly prepared? I would like to know how they were carried out and whether they were consulted on this law with those entities. Minister, I have had to explain things to the local authorities many times, hence my question. And my last question. The government bill on works concession contracts or services gives an opportunity to launch and implement investments without own financial resources. The contractor, when investing, has the opportunity to carry out tasks without taking more risk. I have a question for you: can this licence be applied for This is a specific question. Associations, producer groups or other groups without a specific legal form? Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u15	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u16	These are very specific questions. I'll try to answer them. As far as the first question is concerned, as the senator pointed out, the draft of this law was quite long under review and a number of amendments were tabled at the stage of the Sejm. The Government has welcomed all these amendments. As part of... [[I thanked you for that, Minister.]] Yes. As part of the process in the Senate, our position on the amendments tabled, and they were in the first stage of the 39th phase, although they were of a more orderly nature, the legislative position was also as positive as possible. But there have also been 2 substantive requests made by the Social Dialogue Council. As far as I am aware, today, as part of the amendment tabled by the senators, this issue is to be tabled, as suggested by the Social Dialogue Council. And I can assure you in advance that the Ministry of Development welcomes this request. And as for the other conclusions... They just didn't get to us. Of course, it's possible that what you've just reported to the senator is justified. Although it seems to me that the performance in the scope of Art. The 29 you summoned the senator is governed by public procurement law. In view of the fact that both laws have a number of common provisions and to some extent are compatible, the provisions of the Public Procurement Law can be applied here. I would also ask that you confirm this information by the President of the Public Procurement Office. And as for question three... Such regulation is adopted that, in accordance with the Proceded Law on a Works Contract or Service Contract, the concession holder must have legal personality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u17	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u18	Excuse me, Minister, I'll ask you one more question. Associations are out of the question in this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u19	If the association has legal personality, yes. [[They don't all have one. What about the ones they don't have?]] No. [[It's clear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. And you ask Senator Piotr Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, a public-private partnership is very important. And the concession contract goes that way. Of course, you may not have the resources here and you can commission the task, and the economic risk is on the concessionaire's side, but for that you need a good climate, trust, trust in the government. This partnership in Poland has so far been a bit lame. And maybe that's a good direction. In the directive, as you have said before, the rapporteur is above PLN 5 million, and in the act there is a sum of EUR 30 000. 30,000 euros is only 100 and there are thousands of PLN for a period of up to 5 years, or possibly the contract can be extended. I mostly associate concession contracts with large projects. Such was the construction of the A2 motorway and the question of several billion zlotys. And here we are entering into amounts that are actually not very high. Therefore, I am concerned that certain contracts which should be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act will not go towards concession contracts... It's mostly about in-house. You have just announced that there will be an amendment, we do not know it, it was not previously presented on the committee. But it's mostly about employment contracts, because it's a certain gateway with these small amounts, over 30,000 euros, that you'll be able to conclude those contracts, where the risk is small... Because at 100,000 it's not a big risk, at higher amounts the risk is completely different. Therefore, the question is whether this fit is EUR 5 million in the directive and we enter EUR 30 000, it is not EUR 3 million, 1 million, only an amount of some times smaller, reduced, will not cause certain perturbation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u22	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u23	Mr. Senator, it is indeed the Ministry of Development's expectation that large contracts should be concluded as part of the public-private partnership formula, the greater their value and the greater their infrastructure investments, the better. But the reality at the moment is that there are 102 public-private partnership agreements in total, plus an additional 5 on motorway concessions. In the case of these 102 contracts, the average value of the contract is about PLN 50 million, due to the fact that several contracts are of high value, several hundred million The largest contract is a waste incineration agreement in Poznań. Many contracts are worth several, several million zlotys. With the exception of motorway contracts, of these 102 agreements 101 are agreements concluded by local government units, most of them in the concession mode. Therefore, although, of course, we are trying to make large investments, we also want local government units under the new law to continue to be able to conclude contracts as efficiently as possible and to ensure legal certainty. Hence our proposal to reduce from EUR 5 million 250 000 to EUR 30 000. Of course, the question is why this reduction is so big. It is large because it is consistent with public procurement law, because the amount of EUR 30,000 is also in public procurement law and the aim is to avoid circumvention. That is why we have adopted such a low amount and this amount has been recognised throughout the legislative process.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u24	Thank you, Minister. And you ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u25	Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. The first point is the matter of supervision. She was also touched by representatives of employers, but I am interested in something else, because we didn't talk about it on the committee. Will the National Board of Appeal operating at the Public Procurement Office be sufficiently equipped with funds and finances to ensure that the public-private partnership and the concession market are properly supervised? They only make sense if they actually transfer risks to the concessionaire and simplify procedures, but also if they do not distort equal competition. So this supervision is necessary. That's my first question: is there enough resources, or is there enough people to carry this job? And second question. The employers were very keen to introduce an obligation to perform a personal service, which is enshrined in the Public Procurement Act, and here it is indicated that the provisions of the Art. 3 (1) (a) The 7th bill was missing. In this proposal, which we do not yet know, has this most important issue been taken into account? Indeed, employers' concerns about the use of in-house contracts in this respect seem to be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u27	I think the Public Procurement Office is prepared for new tasks. Of course, we need to be aware that this may require a little more work, but I am convinced that this will be done much more efficiently than in the general judiciary and in terms of the speed of the process... The procedure under public procurement law has so far been the most efficient and secure in economic trade, so I hope that from the concession holders' point of view this procedure will also be effective. Today's public-private partnerships are, of course, relatively small, but there were not a lot of court cases, because there were dozens of them over several years. I hope that even when much more public-private partnerships are concluded, the intention of the Ministry of Development is to definitely multiply the number and increase the average value of the partnerships The number of these cases may increase. Compared to the number of cases that are carried out as part of the supervision of the application of public procurement law, this will not be any avalanche increase which could lead to the paralysis of the Public Procurement Office's work; I personally do not see such a risk. And if there were to be more of these cases, the Public Procurement Office should certainly prepare for this and apply for a larger budget and more staff for the following years. As for the second question, as far as I know, there will be, among other things, such information as the Senator asked about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u28	Thank you very much. Now you will ask Senator Waldemar Sługocki your questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u29	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns the public consultation process. Were such consultations held? If so, to what extent did they participate? And have there been any comments, and if so, which have met with your approval? The second question concerns public-private partnerships. Within the Ministry of Development, there is a department involved in creating, promoting public-private partnerships. What encouragement... If so, what incentives Have you prepared, among other things, for local government units to create a public-private partnership? We know that in Poland this area is particularly sensitive and does not enjoy the confidence of public entities But, as we know, in many Western European countries it is very widespread and allows to carry out many important public tasks in various areas of public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u30	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u31	Mr. Senator, our actions are multifaceted. As the senator said, it is very important to create a good socio-political climate around the public-private partnership, and that is what we do. This is done personally by Prime Minister Morawiecki, and I, too, repeatedly at various kinds of meetings, conferences, congresses, promote this model, saying that it is an equivalent source of funding for the development of our country in relation to other measures. Also in the draft Strategy for Responsible Development there are a number of provisions on public-private partnerships and on the development of public-private partnerships in Poland, and concrete actions are also indicated, which should be done in order for the partnerships to be more. What are we doing now? We have reactivated the Public-Private Partnership Committee, which was set up in 2010 and this Commission is working in 2 sub-groups. One sub-group reviews public-private partnership legislation in order to find barriers and take action to exclude these barriers. However, in our understanding, in these three basic legal acts governing public-private partnerships, which I mentioned, when we conclude the legislative process on the new law on works concessions or services, there will be no barriers, at least to a greater extent. But there are a number of barriers to other legal regulations, in particular tax regulations, e.g. the uncertainty regarding VAT accounting for such accounting contracts. We want to diagnose in other legal acts barriers to the development of public-private partnerships and start a legislative process to amend these acts so that these barriers are eliminated. The second group within this team is working on a strategy for the development of public-private partnerships in Poland. By the end of this year, such a document is to be ready and adopted because a number of European countries have adopted a strategy for the development of public-private partnerships, and it certainly helps to implement it as if it decrees the political will to develop such agreements. As part of such more concrete actions, we are currently drawing up a list of projects that are potentially suitable for implementation on the basis of the public-private partnership formula. We want this list to be certified by the Department of Public-Private Partnership to have, as Prime Minister Morawiecki says, using English terminology, rubber stamp, i.e. to some extent guarantee the economic viability of the project. We want to consider this list as a broad offer from the public sector to the private sector. We want this list to be announced by the end of this year. Another action is the preparation of standard contracts which would, of course, not be mandatory, but only be of a subsidiary nature. The point is that one of the main problems of public-private partnership in Poland In addition to the fact that it naturally loses competition with non-refundable financing in the form of various grants from the European Union, it is that from many negotiations started only, according to different estimates, 20% 30% end with the conclusion of the contract. We hope that when we have developed model contracts in different sectors, the parties, sitting for dialogue, negotiating, will be more focused on what they want, and then the number of contracts that are not successful will be less and this process will accelerate. In Poland, these negotiation processes are very long and very expensive, because in every process there is partly a balancing of already open doors, so we want to build on formulas of contracts, good practices, to speed up this process. The aim is also to ensure that contract patterns alone offer potential opportunities for risk assessment, as one of the key elements that hinder contract conclusion is a divergent approach between the parties to risk issues. We hope that these actions... Maybe I'll talk about another one, though there's more. Although we have been talking about public-private partnerships for several years now, because the first law, which has not led to any public-private partnership agreement, is from 2005 and the second law from the turn of 2008 and 2009. It really didn't start working until a few years ago. There is still a need for training. And we, with the use of EU funds, intend to continue to carry out these trainings to a large extent. And we intend to address them not only to local government units, but also to control bodies, so that these bodies are fully aware of what the public-private partnership is about, because despite the fact that the report by NIK was probably positive about the public-private partnership in Poland two years ago, it partially functions in the public opinion that, alongside the so-called. There may always be a fourth, as the anecdotal is said. We want to fight this decisively so that public-private partnerships are treated as an equivalent form of financing for Poland's economic development and the implementation of infrastructure investments, and so that, besides very important financial issues, additional value is also added in the form of experience, knowledge and know-how of a private partner. Mr. Senator did. I think one more question... [[Yeah, yeah, first question. I was asking about the consultation process.]] The consultation process. So the consultation was wide-ranging, and I am not able to list the participants at the moment. At the same time, they were as if they were formalised, and on the occasion of my various speeches I spoke about the issue of amending the contract for works concessions or services. As regards important substantive demands, the Social Dialogue Council, at its meeting of the Senate Committee on 21 September, made 2 substantive comments, one on the application of similar solutions to in-house concessions in the concession law, by analogy with public procurement law, and the other on the issue of the protection of workers. The aim was also to adopt such regulations as are provided for in public procurement law. This concerns the need for the concessionaire to employ employees in the performance of a given contract on the basis of a contract of employment. And as far as I'm concerned, the senator is about to report these corrections. Our ministry's position here is most positive. With regard to in-house concessions, we had some doubts here, which is why we did not propose this at the very beginning, but the argument of the Social Dialogue Council fully convinced us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u32	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Marek Martynowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, why don't you settle my doubts. I know that at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Infrastructure there were many proposals for amendments to our Legislative Office which were adopted. However, my doubts arise for example. Amendment 16, which says that Article is added. 18a. And there in the mouth. 1 is such a sentence: the contracting authority may I stress: maybe after publishing the concession notice in a way... here I will not read everything... add the concession notice in a different way. I emphasize this word maybe, because it is an optional provision, I do not know if it brings anything at all. That's one thing. And in the other amendments, exactly three... In Amendment No 24, the words "C' are replaced by "C' or "C' instead of "C'. In the next amendment the same thing: the word'should' is replaced by'must'. In the next amendment, the word "should' is replaced by "must'. And now like this: either we go one way or the other. It seems to me that, in that case, this Amendment 16 should also be formulated differently, so that it is not an optional provision, just to make it clear that, for example. after publication of the concession notice, the contracting authority must additionally include the concession notice in another way. If you could relate to that, I might have tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u34	Mr. Senator, it's a little difficult for me to refer to this because I'm not a legislator. I was also surprised by the number of these legislative amendments. But it seems to me that similar provisions of public procurement law have been adopted and that the Senacca legislators have made these minor changes so that these two laws are consistent and unambiguous. That was just the intention of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u36	Minister, I would like to ask you a question that I am very fond of because of my interests. Namely, we are facing the need to undertake very large investments in the health sector and in the caring sector, especially in the caring sector. Can these concession contracts be used for construction, e.g. social services houses, health care facilities? Will it be a tool that can be used there? Because there's a billion-dollar effort to move these issues forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u37	Mr. Senator, as much as possible, the application of a works concession or service contract is very broad and certainly the implementation of investments in the area of the widely understood senior, medical policy... Such projects can also be implemented in this way, and I hope that such projects in this formula will be implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u38	Thank you. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u39	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I would add, if the Minister would allow that in one of the Polish towns, even the court building is built as part of a public-private partnership, which is extremely interesting and worth highlighting. Minister, I have one last question. Very competently and extensively you described the formula of the ministry's work with various actors in promoting knowledge about ppp and the idea of ppp itself. But I have a question about whether there's still a ppp platform and whether there are new players. Because unfortunately, it was not very upbuilding; less than 200 of them were functioning within this platform. So the question is, is it possible, however, to reach an increasing number of different actors and are they more likely to benefit from the assistance offered by the Ministry of Development today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u41	The platform works as much as possible, it develops. In the context of reactivating the public-private partnership team, we had really great interest. About 50 different organisations have put themselves at our request, practically everyone and in a very constructive way, with great commitment to, however, social work to promote and improve public-private partnership regulations, so I think that these partnerships will be far more. The senator recalled the project of construction of the District Court in Nowy Sącz, which was implemented in the form of a public-private partnership. Indeed, this is a kind of model public-private partnership for us, and on the basis of it we want to make more of such partnerships, in which the public side is the government side, not the self-government side. Well, in all other partnerships, the public side With the exception of motorway concessions, 5 of which were granted on the basis of special regulations, are local government units. We want as many government-private partnerships as possible. In total, 48 projects are on the list of government-funded projects from the European Fund for Strategic Investments. At least 2 of these projects And they're big projects. It will be funded in the form of a public-private partnership. We want all these projects to be as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u42	Thank you, Senator. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Me, Mrs. Marshal.]] You're still Senator Martynowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u43	Minister, I only have one more comment. I'm sorry, maybe I'm picking on you, but I want everything that comes out of us to be okay. I'm talking about the legislative amendment. I think there's a mistake here. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 words. Two and three are replaced by two, but I am missing the definition of paragraph, point or article. In my opinion, it should still be specified. It's probably the paragraph, but I miss it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Witold Słowik: Mrs. Marshal, may I ask the legislator to refer to this? Because that's a remark...]] [[There will be a committee meeting, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u44	Yeah, there's gonna be a sitting. [[...to report an amendment, because there won't be time later.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: You are a legislator.]] You're a legislator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u45	Mr. Senator saw that there was no shortcut here, so if that's possible, it would actually be worth completing. [[Excuse me, Mr. Legislator, can I speak up? Because we can't hear.]] Mr Senator saw that there was no shortcut here in this new wording of the provision proposed in the legislative amendment. That's a good point, actually.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u46	Then the senator will report an amendment. Thank you very much. There will still be a discussion, so it will be time to make amendments. Are there any more questions for the Minister? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Witold Słowik: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Stanisławek, please take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Ministry's employees! I would like to say that the committee is working better and that we are working better together on amendments to the laws. We strive to ensure that the law in the Senate brings us, senators, satisfaction, but it is also as simple as possible in reception for performers. As for the questions addressed to Mr. Sługocki... Mr Senator, we must also thank Minister Adam Hamryszczak. Well, a representative of the Social Dialogue Council came to the committee meeting and said that we already have an opinion from the council. This opinion came up, but no one's ever seen it before, so basically, it was only through good cooperation that we actually managed to... Well, there's a mistake here, because we put public procurement law on a contract of employment, and in the case of concessions it didn't. And in this case, there are some major amendments. Then, thanks to cooperation with Minister Witold Słowik, we have improved the provisions, there are 6 amendments which include in-house concessions granted to controlled entities in the scope of the law, together with procedures ensuring transparency of the granting of these concessions, requiring the contracting authorities to indicate the activities for which the concessionaire's and subcontractors' staff must be employed under a contract of employment. The last amendment, No 6, concerns the entry into force of the Act from 1 January 2017. These six amendments are on your hands, Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. Will the senator report these amendments in writing? [[Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My chairman said: 'I would also like to thank you for the cooperation of our committee.' It was perhaps, Mr President, Mr Senator, a model cooperation that should be a classic example of cooperation in the future, including with other resorts. I'd like to repeat what I said before. We wouldn't have to constantly correct the proposals of laws, which then come back to us like boomerang just because we lack some patience, which we didn't lack in the case of this bill... Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! This is a bit of a historic moment for me, because I stand before you today as a senator, but above all as an entrepreneur who has been associated with the construction industry for almost 50 years. I've been looking forward to this proposal today, and I'm happy about it. During my construction career, local government, I had the opportunity to create a national building house in the early 1990s. For many years, I have been in this Chamber, and I know the problems that people in this industry have faced every day. That is why I thank you so much because it is better late, Minister, than never. For 26 years, the big bands, the construction companies, have been looking forward to what we're looking at now. I am therefore very pleased that today, at the Senate meeting, we have the opportunity to proceed with the Construction Contract or Services Act. I would like to say that the contested law gives greater freedom in the procedure for concluding a concession contract, determines the risk of granting concessions and contains a full catalogue of contracting authorities which is legally consistent I'm specially accentuating it. Public procurement. It's definitely something to appreciate, really. The introduction of new instruments in Polish economic trade is also to be welcomed. The draft law aims to reduce legal uncertainty related to the conclusion of concession contracts and facilitate the implementation of public-private projects in the areas of infrastructure and strategic services and to ensure the best possible ratio of quality to the price of concessions. 3 licenser selection modes are introduced It's very important. Limited tender, unlimited tender and negotiations. Another instrument is the new rules for estimating the value of a works concession or service contract. The value of the concession contract is to be estimated by the Contracting Authority and the estimated value will consist of the total revenue of the concession holder obtained during the period of validity of the contract without VAT, of course. A positive impact on investment processes will be made by simpler and more transparent procurement rules through works concession contracts or services, an investor will be able to change the concession holder without the need for a new tender. This is very important. The project introduces a broad catalogue of possible changes to the works concession or service contract, including, inter alia, the long-standing proposed law of intervention, i.e. the replacement of a failed concessionaire by a new concessionaire without having to carry out a tendering procedure, where such a procedure is foreseen at the initial stage of implementation of the project. This is really important and important for most projects, especially those implemented in the form of public-private partnerships. Dear Senators, Minister, the bill certainly goes in the right direction, along with the spirit of time. It is a good law, which gives much more opportunity to act on the implementation of investments. Life will show you how new regulations will work in your daily work. Nevertheless, it is important to appreciate the authors of the law for adapting the law to the current trends in the construction industry, which unfortunately, Minister, is going through a serious crisis due to the massive drudgery on the investment market that has recently occurred in recent years It's a lot. You could say that small and medium-sized companies fall like flies. But maybe it'll all go away. It's always like this when it comes to the economy... All those who do this know this: construction is the first one in crisis and construction is the first one in crisis. I'm happy to be a senator today. I would also like, Mr President, with your agreement, to thank our legislator, who has prepared the proposals for amendments very carefully. I want to thank you for listening to all of this and considering it. I just want to say thank you. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u50	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This bill is the answer to a changing reality. Poland needs faster development. Everyone agrees and has long agreed that barriers must be removed. And that's what the public-private partnership was supposed to do. The idea was to add private capital to public money that could stimulate development. I would like to believe that the regulations developed in a very calm, substantive way in both chambers will be an additional impulse to do more in the public sphere for public money and with private capital. More and more clearly. Because we also cared about this at the committee meeting, so that the concession process, which is to be simpler with regard to public procurement, is also transparent enough. Why is such a distinction needed? Well, not only because there is a lack of capital and wants to encourage private investors to cooperate with the private sector, but also because concessionaires take on long-term business risks, because getting involved for a few, several years is a big deal. While it is more or less difficult for roads to be captured in other areas... I would like to say a few words about the fact that there is a field that is waiting for its good moment. Professor Kozierkiewicz presented such a study in 2007 which shows that only in the area of care for the elderly will we need for investments of not less than PLN 20 billion in the coming years. This public sector, government and government, is unable to bear. It also needs to be opened up to the private sector, hoping that it will support the efforts of local authorities to provide services in this area, that it will also involve its capital. It would be very important for the Public Procurement Office to try to spread through its channels the good practices that the Minister spoke about, the good contract practices. This sector is a specific sector and I understand the concerns of those who say that it is risky to give the field to private investors completely. Many times we have seen such situations, for example. There was negligence in private welfare homes because public authorities were unable to control the activities of these services. In those contracts that will be concluded... If we were to do this as part of a public-private partnership, it would be possible to safeguard both the investor's interests and the interests of the interested. This is a chance, this is a gateway. Businessmen who report to me And there's a lot of them. With the question of whether it is worth investing in the care sector, I answer that it is worth it, because one thing can be guaranteed: I don't know how to make a profit, but we can guarantee a steady increase in demand for these services. If, in the area of investment, we are able to combine public and private money skillfully, everyone will benefit from it, and the most elderly who need care. Let's hope it's one of those segments. Probably not the main, but the significant, which will be developed through this law. Indeed, as Senator Komarnicki said, it would be appropriate to stress the very good work of the Legislative Office and the will of the senators to use this work, take over the proposed solutions and then defend them in their legislative work. That's what happened during the process of this bill. I think we all have the satisfaction of the Sejm and the Senate doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Flork, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! All I can do is join what my predecessors said. There were about 20 amendments in the Seym, with more than 30 of them reported in the Senate; the last amendment on the employment contract is very important. We are glad that... and we will certainly support this bill, and how it will work, what the result of its adoption will be, that life will show, because there have always been problems with the private-public partnership. There is a need for a good economic climate, cooperation with local governments, in order to actually make the most of this law. The Minister spoke about this fourth spo, about how it seemed that the fourth one was blocking the development of the public-private partnership. I'll give you an example. The Minister mentioned highways, and I will point out an example of the A2 motorway where the concession was issued until 1937, if I remember correctly... [[Voice from the room: Until 2037.]] Yeah, until 2037. I'm sorry. But, of course, there's always something for something. You know that driving from Konin to Września, from Września to Poznań and from Poznań to Nowy Tomyśl, a passenger car is paid 3 times 18 PLN and comes out 54 PLN. This is a concession, here, of course, is the economic risk of the concessionaire. It is different in the case of the section from New Tomyśl to the border where the State participated in the costs and therefore the kilometer costs 20 gr. And here, if I recall correctly, 36 gr. So there's always something for something, someone has to pay for it. Therefore, I think that as far as these partnership agreements are concerned, concession agreements should, in principle, be large agreements with a certain high value. However, there is a lower amount in the bill, as I asked the Minister, because it is reduced from EUR 5 million to EUR 30,000. This is a signal, a sign, especially for local governments, that you will be able to... If you don't have any money, you don't have any money in the budget, then take advantage of the fact that someone's going to build something, even though they're going to benefit from it for a certain period of time. The Act contains a maximum of 5 years, depending on the type of project this time may be extended. It is possible that local governments will benefit from this, but it seems to me that, in the case of contracts of such small value, 100, 200 or 300 thousand, it seems to me that the purpose of these agreements is not to be concession contracts. Life will show whether it is right or wrong and whether such agreements will be concluded. To conclude, in order not to prolong, I will say that these are good changes, this is a good bill. Let us hope that these concession contracts will be as much as possible and budgets, especially for local governments, will be partly relieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u54	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Witold Słowik: On the platform or...]] It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u55	I strongly accept the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u56	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The text of the act is contained in print No 275 and the report of the committee In print No 275 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Dorota Czudowska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health of the Senate of the Republic of Poland a report on the work of the commission on the amendment of the Law on Food Safety and Nutrition. This law, adopted by the Sejm, went to the Senate and was examined on 26 September 2016. What is this bill about? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent.]] This is an amendment to the Law of 25 August 2006 on food safety and nutrition. The nature of this bill... The work on it in the Senate was quite short, because the law is mainly technical and tidy. In the Union, legislation is also changing due to new conditions. The Act deals with the safety of food transport mainly by sea transport. This is about transporting sugars and transporting liquid fats and oils. As you know, it is important whether these products, which are then products for the production of food on a wider scale And today we can't imagine a kitchen without sugars and fats... This will require that these products be transported under the best hygienic conditions to ensure food safety. This law does not raise any legislative doubts. I propose that, in line with the recommendation of the Health Committee, the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Jarosław Pinkas unfortunately had to go to the Sejm, but the chief health inspector, Mr Marek Posobkiewicz, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? [[Chief Health Inspector Marek Posobkiewicz: Mrs Marshal, because this is a purely technical change, I have nothing to add to what the Senator rapporteur said.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 273 and the report of the Commission In print No 273 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u59	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Act on the amendment of the Act on the National School of Public Administration and some other laws adopted by the Sejm on 14 September 2016. The committee held its meeting on 28 September 2016. The Commission calls on the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution, i.e. to adopt a law without amendments. The amendment concerns the name given to the National School of Public Administration by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. The consequences of giving the school such a name will also be changes that will take place in 6 laws, including among others. in the Act of 14 June 1991 on the National School of Public Administration. This is the basic law we're amending. The Act of 13 October 1998 on social security, the Law of 27 July 2001 on foreign service, the Act of 30 October 2002 on social insurance for accidents at work and occupational diseases, the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded healthcare and the Civil Service Act of 21 November 2008. These changes tend to include the new name of the school and are of a purely technical nature in the provisions of these acts, you can say. Like I said, the committee is asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. There was a minority request, which comes down to giving the name of another patron of the National School of Public Administration. That patron would be a sleeper. Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u60	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u61	Dear Senator, I would like to ask you to give reasons for choosing such a patron, for a broader explanation of what were the reasons. If you'd be kind enough to introduce this to the senators...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u62	Dear Senator, Ladies and gentlemen! President, sleep. President Lech Kaczyński - All of you. We know his history, his career, his social activities, his political activities. This is the person who deserves to be named by the National School of Public Administration. And I think the discussion about this is so difficult that... I don't want to say that it's inappropriate, but it's definitely a person worthy of being the patron of this school. President, sleep. President Lech Kaczyński appreciated this school's achievements very much. He supported her graduates, often reaching out to graduates who graduated from the National School of Public Administration, engaging them at various stages of their public activity to serve the Polish state. They worked with him, among others. in the Supreme Chamber of Control, in the Warsaw City Hall, and later in the President's Chancellery. It reminds me of the first director of the National School of Public Administration, Professor Gintowt-Jankowicz, who quite recently, when the Sejm debated this issue, reminded the history and fate of the graduates of the National School of Public Administration, admitting that Lech Kaczyński played a huge role. I will quote here a passage from the professor's statement: "I still have in mind an article in the Polish Rzeczpospolita, in which it was written that there are difficulties in hiring graduates. Neither the Prime Minister Hanna Suchocka nor the former Head of the Council of Ministers Jan Rokita helped. The alumni were just reached by the president of NIK and hired them in exposed positions. A lot of people still work there today. I suspect that if Lech Kaczyński had not acted, our school, being a pioneer institution in Europe, would have fallen. I think this represents a state of affairs, and I think it was worth quoting this fragment of the founder's statement and the first principal of the school, because it proves that Lech Kaczyński from the beginning was aware that Poland needed new staff during the transition period. Professional, educated, competent. And that's what the National School of Public Administration provided. In this connection, I consider the decision of the Sejm to be most appropriate, that the name of this patron should be given to the school. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u63	Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u64	National civil service in administration is, of course, a very important issue. We have also recently argued very strongly on this subject. A similar dispute was also held when Lech Kaczyński was president in 2008. At that time, the opposition protested against attempts to reduce the role of civil servants and dismantle them. In 2008, contrary to these objections, a law proposed by law and justice was adopted. President Kaczyński signed it. In your opinion, did this contribute to the construction of the national civil service and improve the lives of graduates?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u65	Dear Senator, may I answer with this question: did the creation of a state resource destroy the Polish administration? In my opinion, no, in my opinion, it was still functioning flawlessly. [[It lasted a short time...]] Yeah, but I remember the moment this bill came into force, and I remember the moment she started to function, and for a while she was doing her job. At the time, I was Vice-Silesian Voivodeship, and it was easy for us to cope with the fact that, under the provisions of the Act on State Personnel Resources, which was introduced in place of civil service, to manage the administration and that it should not be disturbed in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u66	Senator Augustine again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u67	Unfortunately, that wasn't the answer to the question, because I asked if it was a civil service authority building, or if it was a movement that strengthened it. I know the administration didn't fall, fortunately, because it took too long, but the truth is it was obvious. I remember that time from this House because I was already here, there was a strong hit on this school and we were talking about it then. President Kaczyński signed this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u68	But the school was still functioning, not for one moment suspended its activities, trained professional and competent staff. I know many graduates of the National School of Public Administration, these are people who have different views and represent different world views and are excellently found as civil servants of public administration, working in all possible government institutions, including foreign services, at every level. I, Senator, approach this in this way: the public administration or civil service is not an entity, it is an instrument for the action of the state, and the entity is a state. And how we're gonna organize this public administration... We take responsibility for this, the most important thing is the fact or the challenge that it is to function well. And she wasn't shaken for one moment. And there could be a lot of solutions. That's when it was chosen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u69	I don't see any more requests for questions. I would like to inform you that your Marshal Koc, who was in charge of the proceedings before me, seems to have forgotten to give the floor to Senator Flork, who is the rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, so I would very much ask the senator to present this request to the minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will return to 4 June 1989, when Poland was partially free 'Cause the Senate is free 'cause it's a parliamentary election. As a result of these elections many, many changes have been made, the whole system has been changed, the economic system has been changed, and later changes to the Constitution have been introduced... And therefore something had to be done with the civilian service, so that it would not be as it was in the Polish People's Republic, that the party secretary's decision would take a specific position. And here is the very important role of the first non-communist Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland Tadeusz Mazowiecki. He was prime minister, as we remember, in 1989 and 1991. And like I said, something had to be done to introduce civilian service, an apolitical service that wouldn't change at every election. In this regard, action has been taken... I'm just gonna quote an article here. 153 Constitution: The civil service corps operates in government offices to ensure professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the State. And it's the beginning of this civil service corps that's 1990. Then, in May, Tadeusz Mazowiecki established the National School of Public Administration. The law was dated June 1990. And that was the beginning of this school. And now, ladies and gentlemen... We can still say with regard to hiring graduates from this school... My previous speaker, the rapporteur, mentioned here that Lech Kaczyński, when he was head of NIK, had just hired a large group of people who graduated from this school. But, ladies and gentlemen, civil service is Maybe I'll remind those of you who don't know that. Staff and civil servants. Employees are those who are employed for employment contracts, and officials are those who are appointed. And the civil service is being supported by the National School of Public Administration. Every year, as you know, there are appointments for civil service, the minister sets a limit on how many people it will be. And it's the graduates of this school who are powering up the civilian service. And this was the direction of the changes of the Third Republic, since 1990: to create such a permanent, apolitical service that will function. For the first time, this was broken down in 2005 and 2006, following the parliamentary elections, when the state-owned workforce was introduced. What was the state personnel resource? It was an assassination attempt on top positions in the administration. Because the point was that those who had previously been appointed to perform their duties, i.e. directors, deputy directors, who performed their duties, of course, were not the same as in the case of civil servants. Thus, such a fundamental change I am about to reach the second law on civil service and such a breach occurred in 2005 and 2006 when... We remember that Lech Kaczyński was president at the time. Well, that was the idea of making that change, contrary to the rules that were supposed to apply. Legally, legally. Because there was a public resource here. There were also people who had academic degrees, PhDs. Such individuals could also be included in this staff resource. And then there was what we did recently, which is the new civil service law, where, as you remember, the requirements have been lifted... Well, first of all, the point is that there are no more competitions, that you can easily fill higher posts in the administration, they can be cast without competitions. This is the second attempt, in my opinion, on the administration, on civilian service. All of this is, of course, convenient for those who rule, because it's very easy to replace the directors you want to replace. This was not easy at the time of those laws. At that time, such a process was indeed long-lasting, it was necessary to organize a competition, to collect opinions, etc. And today you can do all this quickly, briefly, as you do it... Yeah, as it changes... The Senate also amends other laws, which are generally HR and which lead to such changes. And, ladies and gentlemen, let me recap: first of all, the merits of the person who set up this school must be recognised. It is a mistake in my opinion that such a school of public administration at all 'Cause it's a special school. It is governed by the President of the Council of Ministers and not by the Minister of Education, Science and Higher Education. The argument raised at the committee meeting was that universities are named and have their patrons, and this is a specific school that is subject to someone else. All these years, it's never occurred to anyone that this school, the National School of Public Administration, should be named patron. There graduates choose their patron every year and each year it is a different person. It happened that the school board clearly said... And the school board is Minister of Interior and Administration, Minister of Foreign Spa, Minister of Finance, Science and Higher Education, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, Head of the President's Office... It's hard for the council not to say yes. If such a proposal has been made To be a school of the name of the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. I, at the committee meeting with some disgust, tabled my amendment because I thought that this school should not really bear anyone's name, especially the name of politics. But since she was like this, not another situation, there's no way to withdraw... I have tabled my amendment, being fully aware that you will not accept it. I just wanted to point out that when it comes to patrons, we should take into account those who, at a given time, especially deserve to be remembered. Both sleep. Tadeusz Mazowiecki, as well as sleep. Lech Kaczyński is well-deserved, but when it comes to giving something the name of Lech Kaczyński, you will have... If you're gonna be in charge for three more years, you're gonna be opening up a lot of new objects. It's not just gasports. And there will be opportunities to name them Lech Kaczyński. That's why it doesn't necessarily have to be pushed hard in this particular case. So I am saying with some disgust that we are accepting your proposal, but when it comes to voting, we will probably vote against, because this is not the way to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any questions to the representative of the minority request? You're welcome, Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u72	I have a question for the senator. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As the senator rightly pointed out, this school is to educate an apolitical civilian staff. I agree with the thesis that if we were to choose her patron at all, it should not be a politician, it should be a person of good character who was distinguished by a rational and prudent approach to all political options. Was the topic of the apoliticality of this school somehow discussed at the committee meeting or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u73	We talked about it, we discussed it. I myself said it should be a non-political person. It could be the person who taught there, for example. Someone from the first university lecturers Michał Kulesza, Henryk Samsonowicz, Jan Nowak-Jezioranski and mentioned here also by the rapporteur, Professor Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz. These are the people who worked... It was possible to reach out to these people, not necessarily to the well - known. But there's a rule... The point is to choose a person who had some merit in setting up this school as a patron. And just at the turn of 1989 and 1990... 1990 is the year of creating a new administration, creating a civil service. It was an idea. Tadeusz Mazowiecki. He was the prime minister at the time. This school is under the Prime Minister's authority. The idea was to create such a school and educate those who would act impartially in the civilian corps and be politically neutral. That's what this was all about. So I think if we're gonna pick a patron... I still think that in this school the patron should be completely unpolitical. And if we're going to choose, then Tadeusz Mazowiecki would be the best patron here. I take credit for Lech Kaczyński. I could talk a lot about it here. It's about working with Lech Kaczyński on what it looked like. And I might be able to tell you some interesting things here, but I'm gonna save this for another occasion. On this point, I strongly believe that this matter should have been agreed between the clubs, maybe we should have thought ahead of time about having a discussion on this rather than just going out with a project like this and say: go ahead. We know you're going to vote because you have a majority in the Seym and the Senate, and we have nothing to say here. But we just want to show and emphasize how you work here and how you make a decision. I'm sure it'd be worth thinking about, talking about. This would not be a discussion today that is unnecessary. Because she's completely unnecessary. We should not put on the weight of who has more merit and in what period, whether Lech Kaczyński or Tadeusz Mazowiecki. You could've gotten out of it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u74	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the senator? Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u75	Yeah, I'm sorry to ask you the most important question, which is to shape a name by indicating a name and at the same time pointing out a pattern of conduct, but doesn't it seem... Excuse me, wasn't there such a message at the committee meeting, even in this unspoken layer, the conviction of the members of the committee calling for a candidacy, which you said was a reasonableness, not to say: utilitarianity? 'Cause if we give the name of the people in charge, it's gonna be bigger finance for school, and no school today has a lot of finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u76	Well, I don't think the financial issue has been discussed, and I don't recall it being discussed in the committee, but actually the project... The bill came from the Sejm, therefore the great discussion was no longer here. The bill that came to us clearly defined who was to be the patron of the school, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u77	But do you think... I'm sorry, I'm just gonna fill in my question, just put a dot over my dot. Doesn't the Senator think there was a suck-up in this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u78	Mr. Senator, I was just trying not to say it, and I'm not going to say it. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that if someone makes such a proposal, it is difficult for those who have consulted it, one minister, the other minister or the third minister, to say no. If somebody says there's an offer... This will be the case when we vote on certain matters in the Senate on several occasions. There is, of course, a discipline here. And if that name comes up, someone will say Lech Kaczyński, there is no way that any of you voted differently. We are aware of this and we know that this vote will be lost. However, once again, I would like to stress that such matters can be solved in a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u79	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the bill was filed by the government. The head of civil service, Mr Dobrosław Dowiat-Urbanski, has been authorized to present the position of the government. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u80	Mr. Senator, in order not to take your time, let me just say that the government obviously supports the bill of law, which was the Government's submission, as adopted by the Sejm on 14 September. And I kindly ask the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u81	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u82	Minister, I understand that reaching for as much authority as Lech Kaczyński for the current government in Poland is supposed to serve to strengthen the authority of this school. So how do we explain the fact that you have proposed to us laws that are clearly lowering the rank of civil servants? What's the matter with you? Is it about raising the rank of this service or completely depreciating it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u83	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'm going to answer briefly: it's about raising the rank of civil servant constantly, but I wouldn't tie these two cases. I will tell you quite frankly, also as a graduate of the National School of Public Administration and a graduate of Professor Gintowt-Jankowicz, who, so to mention, continues to enjoy good health I have the privilege of working with her on the school board and on the Civil Service Council, so fortunately for the time being, she is out of the question as a patron of the school, precisely because she enjoys good health and is still serving us with her advice. I would like to say that I do not believe that giving the National School of Public Administration the name of a person who was also a politician By the way, the politician was also a sleeper. In any way, Tadeusz Mazowiecki violated the principles that this school and the entire civilian service are guided by. One of these principles is among others. the principle of political neutrality. I am far from convinced that giving the National School a name politics Of course, I am simplifying this means that from now on the school will educate politicians. No, I am convinced that, as has been done since the beginning of the 1990s, it will continue to educate apolitical members of the civilian corps, which does not change the fact that among the graduates of the KSAP we will also find people who, after many years of politically neutral service to the state as members of the civilian corps, have taken the political path. Such people will be found in almost all political parties, including the Law and Justice. I'll even mention the current Home Secretary, Mr. Mariusz Błaszczak, or the dead. Minister Wladyslaw Stasiak. As far as the Civic Platform is concerned, I will mention your Deputy Prime Minister Elżbieta Bieńkowska, on the left hand side you can point to the former head of the office of President Kwasniewski, Waldemar Dubaniowski. These people, generally considered to be state-owned, served the country perfectly in their positions, although they were political positions, which convinces me that there is nothing wrong with this if a KSAP graduate who, at the end of his education, has a statutory obligation to work 5 years in public administration offices in politically neutral positions, then decides to continue serving the state as a political position. It's important that he serve you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u85	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u86	I'd like to know if you know... [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] Can you hear it now? I'd like to know... Because it's a government project, I understand. Who came up with this proposal? I would just like to quote the justification of this project, which states that it is intended to honor and honor the memory of the distinguished statesman and to promote his intellectual achievements. I understand what you said here. That he was an outstanding statesman, honoring him, intellectual achievement. It has no relation to KSAP. It's just about honoring, I understand. If so, okay. If you think he can be honored in this way, we accept that, but someone has come up with this proposal. Can you tell us who proposed that name, the patronage of President Lech Kaczyński?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u87	Yes, Mr. Senator. Pursuant to the Act on the National School of Public Administration, the National School of Public Administration is supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers. The President of the Council of Ministers has the right And that's the right he's enjoying. To propose that the school be given the name of the president. As for the second part of the senator's question, there is also a comprehensive passage in the explanatory memorandum that mentions the associations of the sleep. President Kaczyński of the National School of Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u88	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Zdrojewska was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator. I remind you, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u89	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, If I hear you're the head of civil service, I'm actually wondering what you're the boss of. Probably those remnants that were left in the civil service after one move in February this year, one law of law and justice threw out 1 thousand 600 officials in express mode. I wonder how it is possible that you are asking for the name of Lech Kaczyński's school, whose sense of existence has been very strongly challenged by your actions over the last year. Where's the nerve coming from? Even today or tomorrow, we will proceed with another law on almost all areas of life that will abolish competitions for positions in the Military Property Agency. This is another act of this kind. So that you show that qualifications, education, the right level, knowledge of foreign languages, etc. They're unnecessary. There is also no need for managerial experience and an adequate period of administration, which allows for promotion. You've proven that all this is unnecessary. So I think that the introduction of this project by you is just messing with the idea of... I also believe that you are doing a great deal of harm to Lech Kaczyński. I do not know whether he would like to be the patron of this particular school, because in 2006 he actually contributed, when signing the law, to the liquidation of the civil service. This was the first blow before the term in which civil service was challenged. I believe that this school should be apolitical, which does not mean, Minister, that its graduates cannot then be prominent political figures on each side. It's okay if that happens. The fact that graduates after several years of work and experience include important functions in the state or in politics is not bad. The bad news is that the name of this school is being used politically and for me That's what I'd say. Even in a cynical way. Why this school? No, among others. because it is directly subject to the President of the Council of Ministers. I do not think that your environment has the power to propose this name in the case of any Polish university and to do so in academic circles. However, you believe that in the case of a school that is directly subordinate to you, you can do whatever you want. If it was to be a politician at all, it should be the founder, Tadeusz Mazowiecki. That's what I think. I also believe that drawing certain quotations from the words of Professor Gintowt-Jankowicz is not okay with the professor. I think as good a sentence as not better, the professor would have had just about Mr. Mazowiecki. Finally, in order not to prolong this speech, I must say that I feel embarrassed. And I wanted to express it. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's right. That's right. That's right, that's right, The footnote is to build monuments to its heroes, a kind of cult that begins to dominate in our country, and to erase those people who really deserved to establish civil service in Poland, people who founded and invented KSAP. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u90	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's always very difficult to speak in personal matters. People's lives, even those very well-known and well-deserved, go through different railroads. Even among the saints there are those who have had difficult moments, and you can always relate to something. All the more so when a person's name is given an honorable title, one must choose those who have the least controversy. I have experienced such situations in the local government and we have always withdrawn from giving honorary citizenship to people who have been subject to any reservations. When a name is given, when it is done, you usually have specific intentions. What? Either you want to show credit for your vocation, your functioning, your institution's creation, or And at the same time, you want to set a specific pattern, e.g. We want to show the youth a pattern and give the school a given name. Why? So they can have a pattern. After all, it is very important in the civil service to show a pattern. And sometimes it's also done to make a nobility to raise the profile of an institution, someone... We have observed such things, and of course these are noble intentions. In the case of this school and Lech Kaczyński, is any of these conditions appropriate? Of course, these are judgments, so what I'm saying is that I'm a senator who cares about this school being apolitical and delivering it to the Polish state. Whether you will rule the PiS, Platform, iks, iks and others As before, unbiased, well-prepared officials who, looking at a pattern, try to fulfil their service, and thus also a mission in public administration towards Poland. Well, thanks to NIK's president, Professor Lech Kaczyński, some of them were presented... [[Don't insult me, really...]] ...but thanks to the president in the light of what was said here can only be given in quotes, because the national staff resource was an attempt to circumvent the rules concerning civil servants and show that you can graduate from public administration school and you can be missed in promotion, because this is how politicians decide, looking for such tricks as the governor of Wielkopolska, a long-term voivode, spoke of here. That's why I don't think it can be a pattern. A pattern would be someone who would say no. I would agree, if this were the case, I do not know, of the Constitutional Tribunal, because Lech Kaczyński, when he tried to perform operations similar to those that are being carried out today, said: no; and for this he was praised and honored. But not in this case, certainly not when it comes to the civilian corps. Because what kind of example is that? I'd like to take another case. Namely, the evaluation of President Lech Kaczyński is a matter of the future. I know, there was a great tragedy, a man died in public service, the President of the Republic. That's a fact. But wasn't he an accessory to this tragedy? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[Man!]] [[Stop it, man!]] We'll probably hear about that. We know from the plane's footage... [[Come on!?]] Mr. Senator, we know from the plane's footage that President Kaczyński was asked for a decision. [[But what are you talking about?!]] [[What are you talking about, man?!]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[Disgraceful!]] We know he didn't take it... We know he didn't take it... [[The Senators of Law and Justice are leaving the room.]] We know what the consequences were. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not certain what the final judgment of this figure will be. [[Miller's gonna judge him!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last point is today's circumstances. We are at a time when the inventory of all these staff changes is ongoing, which, without regard to the needs of the public administration, is being undertaken today. Misiewicze, PiS-ewicze already fill out the entire pages of these registers. And that's the moment we're sitting. But at such a time, there is no doubt that a good, impartial, unmistakable pattern is needed. In my opinion, Tadeusz Mazowiecki is certainly closer to these criteria. But because of the principle of political neutrality in this school, we should refrain from making such a decision. It seems to me that under no circumstances will the name of this school serve to elevate its rank, nor will it be a fully acceptable pattern. That is why I believe that this is a bad decision that will serve the school badly, a decision made for ad hoc political purposes. Finally, I would like to say yes: I have no idea And I thought Lech Kaczyński was a man who tried to be decent. How he would have referred, if he could have, to such a proposal. I think he'd be abstinent, and he'd have doubts that under these circumstances it's a decent proposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u92	Mr Rulewski... excuse me, Senator Rulewski. Now, Senator, I made a mistake, I called you a senator, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! He was wrong to speak as rapporteur, Senator Florek, when he said that we were resigning from the power of votes, the number of votes. I don't always give in to force and fight, of course I'll fight in this case. Nor are those who believe that this proposal to name Lech Kaczyński is as common expectations. Senator Augustine's speech has already aroused very negative reactions from some Senators of Lech Kaczyński's supporters. And Senator Augustine is not the only one who speaks that way. But let's not have this litigation here. I would say that giving a national, state school such a high, honorable name for, I understand, years or hundreds of years really requires thought. And it certainly cannot be allowed to happen in a controversial atmosphere. There's probably gonna be a board, some kind of celebration. Are we to witness division again? Can we not look for other forms, other solutions, so that these divisions, these futile divisions, are no longer in Poland? In contrast to the loss that you announced, Senator Florek, I fight and cast personal arguments, because that is the title of this point, but first as archivist of the Third Republic I must mention that the national administration school was born as a result of a solidarity request. To be honest, even the need to change the staff was probably written in a postulate that never appeared in the twenty-second postulate of the Gdańsk agreements. He did not appear for well-known reasons: he did not want to irritate tigers or bears or other Russian and native animals, so this request was abandoned. Right. But when almost complete independence broke out, we returned to the fact that Poland was not ruled by the party nomenclature, and today I will say: any So that the officials were civil, that without the nomenclature of both the symbolic and the true... And attacked by us, by the Solidarity I remember, I personally did it. Mr. Prime Minister Mazowiecki, and then Bielecki... We agreed that it could not also be a nomenclature of solidarity, that it must be a school that will educate citizens and professionals, and the answer was the creation of a national administration school. I'm gonna criticize that decision a little today. This decision was a decision, so to speak, in short shorts, only How much does he study there? 400, 500 people. This was to be a national phenomenon, i.e. those schools were to be all over the country to replace the communist nomenclature with people who never had any rights. I'm even saying today isn't... These are non-party citizens who want to serve the state. I also knew Lech Kaczyński for this reason. I do not deny him various merits, I would say today that both, and Mazowiecki, and Lech Kaczyński have served Poland well. Undoubtedly the character of Lech Kaczyński... Whether we agree to this or not, it goes back to history as a participant in the freedom movement, but above all as a tragic victim, as a victim whose mission was not completed due to death at a public service station. There are still disputes about the extent to which fate has caused such an event, but the school must have a name given today by the Senate, which is not subject to any discussion which is worthy and will be accepted by all parties, but above all by those who are outside... by the Poles. There are many such figures: the Kulesza mentioned here, but also, for example, Regulski, a professor who has created the 'no', not the 'civil administration itself', public administration throughout the country. Local governments today have more public officials than public administrations. But Poland is richer than in Regulski or Kulesze. The figure almost comparable to... is President Kaczorowski. They share a tragic death in public service. Except President Kaczorowski was already retired. He worshipped there because he couldn't pay tribute before. Through his fate and history, through the Bolshevik shipping, through the route to Monte Cassino... And the most important thing that makes him stand out when we make a comparison, something that no one, I think, can beat, is the fact that he was serving in exile. First with joy, but later I've seen it. It seemed, with ignorance, also from allies, almost as a tragic figure until the end of the days, to be in office, in an office which is not there, and which 4 days after regaining independence became the axis of the Polish state. This is where he came with the insignia. Here he extended the life of the Third Republic So that today we have the right to say proudly that Poland exists for 1050 years. And it didn't stop at decorations, it still worked until the last minute. As he was born for Poland, he died for Poland. Therefore, I urge you to use the name of President Ryszard Kaczorowski in respect of Polish eminent figures. I don't think anyone has to learn that name. Let me tell you more: this character is known in the outside world, it is a man decorated by the Queen of Britain, also in other countries. The students of the National School of Public Administration would have something to boast about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u94	Thank you. Senator Warzocha will speak now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, I would say that I was afraid of this, but we were afraid that the discussion, which should have a completely different temperature, should be conducted with due seriousness and respect, even when there is a proposal to name a school by the name of another patron... In any case, this discussion should be factual, calm and adequately subdued. However, some of the statements made by my predecessors, by the senators, unfortunately, this temperature has risen unnecessarily, and the discussion has gone the wrong way, not towards what we should be talking about here. Let me be clear: Senator Mieczysław Augustyn's statement is simply appalled. You can't rely on hypotheses, you can't rely on talk, you can't rely on press reports when you talk about imponderabilies, and that's what we're talking about. This isn't about the idea that we're talking about a particular person, a particular president, a particular politician, but about finding the best patronage for a school that we all have in mind, which we're very much hoping for, whose activities we are very much counting on, her educational and educational activities, because, among other things, we're talking about. it is responsible for the construction of the state. That's why, Mr. Senator, I don't think it was necessary at all, and that's why me and my fellow Senators from Law and Justice left. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, I believe that adding more names to this discussion, as Senator Jan Rulewski has just done, is also a misunderstanding. Of course, we can discuss which patron would be the most appropriate, but it seems to me that this leads to a paradox, to the fact that the dimension of this discussion, the nature of this discussion is quite frivolous at the moment. We shouldn't do that. Multiplication of further proposals by patrons does not serve this issue, undermines the seriousness of the discussion. Of course, all the people listed here, both President Lech Kaczyński and Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki and President Kaczorowski, are people who have their place in history. These are people who have had a huge impact on our public life, in the form of politics, when they were actively involved and actively involved in it. They have influenced the shape of our country in which we are now living, and they all have their merits. Of course, they were people who also had the right, also as politicians, to make mistakes. They also had the right to choose a solution that was worse than what they could spend after a few years. We're getting better. And there are long discussions on this subject, even at the academic level. And maybe we should leave it to the dorms, because bringing this discussion to such a simple assessment of Lech Kaczyński, that as President of the Supreme Auditorium, he has, as Senator Augustine said, some merit, but already as President It doesn't necessarily make sense to me. Lech Kaczyński has been the character of public life since 1989, which has specially distinguished itself. First of all, I would like to stress that it was a politician, a man, previously a union and social activist, who always made good choices in his life, never got lost, never got caught in any meanders. We know perfectly well, all of you know very well, also the Senators of the Civic Platform, his life story and know that he never went on an easy compromise, that he did not try to match his attitude to specific times, and yet the beginnings of his activity were years of the right past era, which we want to forget and which we all judge strongly negatively in this Chamber. Other characters, e.g. The ones listed here, like sleep. Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki had some hesitations in their CV. I do not want to talk about it, because in the case of Mr Tadeusz Mazowiecki at a time difficult for him there was a break with a way of thinking about the Polish state in those communist realities, he withdrew from it, but it is not entirely possible to say that it was an incorruptible figure, which never made any mistake. And in the case of Lech Kaczyński we are dealing with this situation: a mistake he has never made, suffered for it, and also made great sacrifices with his life... But what distinguishes him from a group of states senators who could claim to be the patrons of this very important university? It stands out for sleep. President Lech Kaczyński's approach to the state, his way of thinking about the state, that the state should break up with its infamous past, that it should find and build its new staff, that the determinant for all these officials or people claiming to play the role of high government officials should above all be service to the State Read more: Service to the public. And I'm sure he was a man who broke some stereotypes. Many publicists have spoken and written many times, that sometimes it seems as if it did not fit into its time, that it was referring to a language that many already seemed too archaic, that it did not even fit into the world of post-politics, which has often been spoken of as such for at least the last 10 years. Maybe his approach is best reflected in his own words. You all certainly have in your memory or in your home archives the message of the President of the Republic of Poland of 22 December 2001. Allow me to quote, because this best illustrates his approach to how you should function. With regard to the State, honesty is closely linked to the willingness to consider the exercise of office as a public service, which must be addressed to the common good, to continuous procedures for its implementation. When we talk about the country as a whole, the common good is the good of Poland. And then, in many cases, there was no willingness to treat power as a public service and the will and energy to pursue the common good. And it is in this sphere that a profound change must take place, which is noticeable to society. It is obvious that there is no possibility of building good public order without people who are guided by essential values in their actions, seeking a common good because it is a value in itself for them. And one more quote: "Only on the basis of such motivations, about the desire to ensure Poland's prosperity in its development, I will say more, its size, can you strive to repair the Rzeczpospolita. This repair is a specific task. This removal from our lives of pathological phenomena, especially of great crime today, especially corruption crime, of all the momentum to obtain unauthorised benefits, which poisons society, deformates its construction, creates too large and unjustified social distances, degenerates market institutions, and, above all, degenerates the state apparatus and prevents the state from properly fulfilling its fundamental tasks. So much for what Professor Lech Kaczyński said on the day of the oath. But since many people today referred to common memories of Lech Kaczyński, even conversations, cooperation, I also want to quote opinions about him, perhaps from two different poles. The first Professor Zdzisław Krasnodębski: Lech Kaczyński did not agree to the times of post-politics. On the other hand, his presidency was well placed in the Republican model of politics, in which he is a discussion, a dispute about state affairs, and the state of the policies depends on the virtues of citizens, their memory of past actions and their desire to distinguish themselves with their own actions in order to match them. Who else, today the publicist, former politician, expressed that opinion after President Lech Kaczyński's death. The position of President Lech Kaczyński is about to go to the history of Poland, but not simply as a historical figure of the next one, even an outstanding political leader. The figure of the deceased President has been surrounded by a national mandorla, so his departure from the political world of reality is not just a transition to history. Lech Kaczyński also joined the country of the Polish national myth. A positive myth. And it became a symbol for all of us. I would like it to be a symbol for you as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm agitated by this gentleman's speech. I won't even mention his name. But I'm gonna say, for me, it's very mild to say such words. So as not to use worse terms It's just that you have to have a lot of hate, a lot of bad will. I don't want to say mean. To use such words to sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. I won't talk about Mr. Mazowiecki, because the gap between the sleep. The president and Mr Mazowiecki was great. But let me just say one thing. I don't want to talk about Mr. Mazowiecki because everyone has good things and bad things in their lives. But I'm sure you're asleep. Mr. President Kaczyński would never do that. And he didn't. And here's the thing: as Mr. Mazowiecki was the prime minister, he was given speeches. Mr. Mazowiecki read all these speeches, reviewed and corrected them. Everywhere there were words of nationalism, Polish, Nation, Patriotism... All those words were removed. So was Mr Mazowiecki European or Polish? And there's no doubt that you're asleep. Lech Kaczyński was a real patriot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u98	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki was the last person to speak... [[I'm here to discuss...]] [[Me too.]] Senator Komarnicki. [[Yes?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u99	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm always worried about such an aggressive tone, no matter which way the speaker hears it. I have always thought and will always think that we as senators should act a little differently than our colleagues in the Lower House. I appeal and ask that we do not create such tensions, especially since we have, fortunately, the opinion of this balanced House in the country, among the public. This is my appeal, the appeal of a man who is already of dignified age. I will share my reflection very calmly and try to speak in a balanced manner, as if it were a discussion with my constituents. It is the duty of each senator to present in his district the rations of the other party, even if they are slightly unfavorable. Mr. Marshal, Dear Izbo, the National School of Public Administration was created primarily with a view to the apoliticity of staff, the training of cross-party personnel for the Polish state, the good of the state and the service of the Polish state. Unfortunately, I say these words in the past, because the ruling party first effectively trashed the apolitical civil service, and now he wants the politician to be the patron of this school. Ladies and gentlemen, we should be at least a little consistent. Of course, we should always talk about what happened. We remember perfectly well the merits of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, in many fields. His merit as head of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Minister of Justice, the President of Warsaw and the President of the country are undisputed. It is also worth emphasising its important contribution to the employment process, and this was mentioned here today. First graduates of the National School of Public Administration. Nevertheless, was the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński the creator of the National School of Public Administration? We should ask ourselves that question. Was he a graduate? Then why will the school not be named Tadeusz Mazowiecki? My senator friend was just talking about things I don't know. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister of Mazowiecki co-founded the Society of Scientific Courses, which is the forge of independent thinking about the Polish state. The National School of Public Administration was established by the decision of the Prime Minister in 1990, and I will remind you that it was the first such institution in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In this respect, we were indeed the first to do so. This school has benefited from the experience of the interwar 20th anniversary, and in particular from the experience of the School of Social Sciences and Commerce, which has existed since 1915. There was this college, but not many of us. That's what he remembers. Besides, it was even located in the building of the National School of Public Administration. We have also benefited from the best foreign experience, from German, British and even French experiences. I appeal and please: let us not divide Poles into better and worse! We've divided too much already. If there are controversy, let's wait. Why don't we not give patronage to the National School of Public Administration today? In fact, I would like to leave you with this question: will the ruling majority really propose that every institution, every investment, from the gasport to the National School of Public Administration, be the name of President Lech Kaczyński? I'll leave you to that question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u101	Mr. Marshal, the circumstance that, as it were, is that I should speak again, is the return to the senators' hall and my desire to convince them, to present my argument for giving this school the name of President Ryszard Kaczorowski, a scout, an apolitical person, a fighter of various routes, who, from the sacred memory of Lechem Kaczyński, is connected by a common death during the tragedy of Smoleńsk. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end up like this: we all sing the same hymn, we sing Poland has not yet died. We have to put the names of the people there... It is Richard Kaczyński who is the obvious... [[Kaczorowski!]] I'm sorry, Ryszard Kaczorowski. It is, so to speak, a clear proof that when Poland died... He is proof that Poland has not yet died.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u102	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, for the second time. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Nothing is either white or black. I'm not gonna quote here... There are always intermediate colors. That is why we must be very careful about the words that are being said, especially in this House, in the Senate. I only came out here to say that the state on the right is judging what we're saying on the left. If you'd like, we're about to assess what you're saying, what Senator Warzocha said and what Senator Bonkowski said. I can say a few words, too. I know that someone wants to drown out their consciences, that there are different initiatives... I'm not going to develop that thought right now. Maybe one day I'll develop it. I can return to 8 March 2010. You remember the Local Government Act. In Poznań there was a big reunion on 8 March 2010, one month before the disaster. President Lech Kaczyński was also there. I personally went to the airport three times to pick up the president, then I stayed with him for a long time and we talked. I don't want to talk about this conversation, about what happened back then. Let's respect the people who are gone, and let's not discuss it, because I could say a few very clear words here, too. What some have said today... I'm sure there's a way to find the beginning of what happened. So I'd like to ask for some consideration. The mistake is that you don't agree on a case like the name of the school. This should be accepted by the acclamation, we should decide this together and there should be no such discussion here today at all. In the meantime, we're shooting a spiral and we're talking more and more. Maybe it's a good thing I'm the next-to-last speaker that we're slowly ending this discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u104	Thank you very much. Correction. This was the first time you've spoken, so you've had 10 minutes. You didn't take the time. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Friends of the PiS! I am, of course, very sorry that my words have touched you so much. I was just saying that abstinence is needed until everything is cleared up. There are questions that need to be asked, however painful they would be. I had the courage to put them here. I'm sure someday we'll hear the answer. Perhaps... I would like to believe that I would very much like to believe that this will be a satisfactory answer for you. But so far I just wanted to emphasize what has been said many times here: that until we are really sure how and what happened, it is worth to refrain. That's why at first I said that whenever such people appeared in my city as candidates for honorary title, we withdrew the candidacy so that there would be no such discussion. It's exactly like Senator Florek said, something and someone is a role model. not when someone, a group, creates him for it, only when he is generally considered to be such a pattern. That's why I came out here... But since I have offended you so badly, I wanted to say that I am truly sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last vote in the discussion. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I very briefly, because I absolutely do not want to refer to these threads in the discussion, in which various people from the pantheon of Polish statesmen who could be patrons of KSAP were compared in a way. I am convinced that both sleep. Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki, as well as sleep. President Ryszard Kaczorowski and also sleep. President Lech Kaczyński would be worthy and good patrons of the National School of Public Administration. But I am also firmly convinced that the President of the Council of Ministers, as head of this school, is entitled to choose and propose one patron 'Cause there can only be one patron. However, I would like to refer to many of your arguments that the name of the school was named after a person who was among others. politician Let us remind you that also a scientific worker, a scientist, which also corresponds to the educational, educational nature of the school, will make the school political. I don't agree with that at all. I'll tell you. And that's what many of your senators have been raising. That the graduates of the next year's school choose patrons of their promotions and some of these patrons, whom the graduates, KSAP listeners have chosen, I would like to introduce to you. This year it is Tadeusz Mazowiecki, in 2014 it was Wiesław Chrzanowski, in 2012 Ryszard Kaczorowski, in 2010 Bronisław Geremek, so many politicians, many people who were also politicians. Does this mean that graduates of these promotions will not be politically neutral members of the civil service corps or public administration staff After all, not everyone finds work in government administration? I am convinced that this will not be the case, that they will carry out their mission with dignity. And I'm pretty sure it's gonna be the same when the school gets the name of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u108	Thank you very much. As a single legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess... Oh, there's messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u109	The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the National School of Public Administration Act and some other laws will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 179. Communication No 2: a joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of applications for the Act on works concessions or services will take place today, half an hour after the announcement of a break in the session, in room 217. Communication No 3: meeting of the National Defence Committee on the review of the Law amending the Law on the Military Property Agency "Print No 290 " will take place today, i.e. On 5 October 2016, 15 minutes after the adjournment was announced in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-05-senat-27-1.u110	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 13 minutes 50]]
