ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Agatha Borowiec, Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Ms Monika Wielichowska and Mr Krystian Jarubas as the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Małgorzata Golińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Krystian Jarubas. I consider the minutes of the 13th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete this item from the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the establishment of the Medical University. Louis Rydygier in Bydgoszcz (print No 226). [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] At the 13th meeting, the Sejm did not vote on the request for additional referral to the government committee of the draft law amending the Act on Public Blood Service and certain other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Business Freedom Act, - about special arrangements related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The projects shall be printed as appropriate in Nos 322 and 332. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has submitted a report on the government draft law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The report shall be published in print no 326. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, - special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, - on the amendment of the Teacher's Charter Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other Acts. The reports shall include prints 316, 318, 319 and 327, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Public Finance presented its opinion on the proposals to appoint a member of the Monetary Policy Council. The opinion shall be in print No 310. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on the motion for a vote of distrust to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Błaszczak. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider at its meeting the current information on the implementation by the government of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which was proposed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. High Seym! I would like to inform you that the students of Primary School 11 in Płock are currently listening to our discussions. Hello, young people. [[Applause]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 11.15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11.30, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Senior policy in conjunction with the Health Commission - h.m. 12, - Infrastructure - hour 13.05 or immediately after the end of the votes, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 13.05 or immediately after the end of the votes, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Culture and Media - hour 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 15, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 4:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: construction of the Lomza ring road and express road S61 - Via Baltica - hour. 11, - Parliamentary Craft and Vocational Education Team - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 15, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 16, - Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers - hour. 18. The pastoral ministry of Parliamentarians warmly invites you and your fellow Members to the Lent retreat which will take place on 16, 17 and 18 March. On Wednesday 16 March and Thursday 17 March the retreat will take place in the church of St. St. Aleksandra at pl. Three Crosses in Warsaw at 3 p.m. 20. Mass on the third day of the retreat, i.e. March 18th, will take place at 3 p.m. 7.15 in the Seym Chapel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u3	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Błaszczak (prints 281 and 297). Mr Mark Wójcik, representative of the applicants, please take the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! [[Game in the O.R.]] Today we are considering a motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the first such proposal in this term of office. The Minister has been performing his duties for 4 months, but today it can be said that none of the ministers in the history of the Polish government has given him enough reason to withdraw from office in such a short time. Therefore, the proposal does not concern one case, but several cases which show how Minister Błaszczak performs his duties at the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs. Well, let's move on to the facts. The first reason we've put forward a proposal is because of the circumstances surrounding the appointment of your insp. They're on duty as Chief of Police. Well, let us remind you that according to the article. The 5th Police Act, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, shall present to the President of the Council of Ministers a candidate for the Chief Commandant. I would like to remind you that under the law, the Chief of Police is the central authority of the government responsible for the protection of human safety and the maintenance of security and public order. The Act states that the Chief Chief is also the superior of all police officers. The candidate for this is recommended by the Minister and the Prime Minister has taken the final decision to ensure the security of the citizens. It is on the Minister's responsibility to prepare the right candidate, to check his past, to check whether the candidate guarantees that he will properly carry out the duties of Chief of Police, i.e. to remind the most important person in the State responsible for the security of citizens. On 11 December, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, at the request of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, appointed an Insp. They're on duty as Chief of Police. Unfortunately, after a few weeks it turned out that Minister Błaszczak did not check whether his candidate gave guarantees that he would perform the duties of commander properly. What's more, he didn't even check if the insp name. Maja does not appear in criminal proceedings. All you had to do was check with the police's internal affairs office or the central anti-corruption office to find out that the insp. May occurs in corruption proceedings conducted by the prosecutor's office in Łódź. Some of the materials in this investigation came from the Bureau of Internal Affairs of the Police. Madam Prime Minister, Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, recommending the position of Head of Police of the person who is acting in corruption proceedings and who, as a result of this procedure, can be accused, in fact ridiculed you and the Polish Police. [[Applause]] The neglect of Minister Błaszczak in connection with the appointment of an Insp. They should already be in their own right to dismiss Minister Błaszczak from office. Unfortunately, Minister Błaszczak instead of honorably admitting an obvious mistake and resigning decided to choose another way. He decided to lay down his responsibility for his own decision on the opposition. In the light of this absurd defense, it is worth recalling today the facts, above all what the preliminary investigation looks like. Well, High Izbo, the preliminary investigation consists of two stages, from proceedings and proceedings against a person. Both phases separate the moment of the charges. To date, the practice with regard to those exercising public functions was such that, at the time of the statement of objections, those persons were dismissed from their positions. In the case of proceedings conducted in Łódź, insp. Maya wasn't charged. However, if there was a situation in which the Inspector. In connection with its function, it would have any effect on the conduct of the proceedings, it should be strictly dismissed. Before he was appointed chief of police insp. Maj was Deputy Chief of Regional Police in Gdansk. According to the Act, the Deputy Chief of Regional Affairs appoints and dismisses the Chief of Police. Well, the former Chief of Police, based on the information available, could have assessed whether you were an Insp. May in the occupied position gives guarantees of proper performance of its duties. The chief of police has carried out this type of analysis, he concluded that the person who is the deputy chief of the voivodship police in Gdańsk has no influence on the prosecution proceedings conducted in Łódź, the proceedings which concern the corruption case from Kalisz. Therefore, the decision of the former Chief of Staff not to revoke the INSP. Maja from the occupied position of Deputy Regional Commandant in Gdansk was the decision, at this stage of the procedure, as correct as possible. However, the promotion of the Chief of Police, i.e. the person whose name appears in corruption proceedings, to such a high position in the Police was detrimental to this formation and completely irresponsible. Including a new position, Inc. Maj has gained the opportunity to influence the work of the Internal Affairs Office. Let me remind you that the Internal Affairs Bureau was one of those institutions where evidence was collected against the Insp. Maya. Through the new position of Insp. Maj has been given the opportunity to directly influence the work of this office and thus has been given the opportunity, also in the future, to improve his situation in the preparatory proceedings which was conducted in the prosecution's office in Łódź. As the facts show, one of the first decisions of the insp. Maya had very deep staff changes at the Internal Affairs Office. The job was lost not only by the director and the deputy director, but also by the wardens. What's more, the Internal Affairs Office is still in December [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Under the new management, she asked the prosecutor's office in Łódź about at what stage is the procedure in which the name of your insp appears. Maya. Minister, the behaviour of your predecessors as Minister of the Interior and the behaviour of the former Chief of Police should be properly assessed. On the other hand, the scandal in the Polish Police only led to your negligence, lack of information and lack of supervision of services. [[Applause]] Minister, you should thank the journalists investigating this case, because if it weren't for their work and their preparation for writing articles on this case, you would probably find out about the problems of the Insp. They're only from the newspapers, maybe not even from the newspapers, but only in a situation where the Insp. Maya would have been charged. This would be a situation that would end in an even greater scandal in the Polish Police than the one you led to. Madam Prime Minister, at this point, it is worth mentioning how the ministers of your government at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on 24 February informed Members of the circumstances of the appeal. They're in charge. Well, Minister Błaszczak and Minister Zieliński came to the meeting in advance with prepared speeches. They did not intend to answer any questions from Members, and they did not actually answer any questions from Members. [[Arrogance!]] On the other hand, an uninvited minister of the Special Services Coordinator came to the meeting unexpectedly. Minister Mariusz Kamiński came and Minister Mariusz Kamiński informed the High Commission that in the first days following the entry into force of the INSP. They have the position of Chief Chief of Staff and have learned that there is a proceeding in Łódź, where the name of your Insp appears. Maya. Well, Minister Kaminski talks about this situation in this way: I have read the analysis of the material submitted and in my opinion the allegations that the prosecution may possibly make are serious. A moment later, Minister Kaminski says: Because of the fact that the operational material collected in this case looks serious and dangerous, from the point of view of being able to make a complaint to the chief, I have recognised, without prejudging the case, because it is the prosecutor, and in the future the court that, for the sake of the purity and security of the police, for the safety of citizens and the state, it is much better for Chief Maj to stop acting as Chief Chief until the case is settled. Well, the Minister shared his knowledge with the committee, which he had already taken in December 2015. The trouble is, during the committee meeting, I don't think the ministers listened to each other. Minister Zieliński informed the committee after a dozen minutes, and I quote: Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps a word about the standards. This is indeed an important issue. At a time when this knowledge, which is being discussed today, became available to us, the chief police officer ceased to serve as police chief. The problem is that Minister Zieliński reports on the February 2016 situation. Prime Minister, the basic question is this: What has happened during these two months since the moment the circumstances have come to light that Chief Maj cannot perform his duties until the Prime Minister resigns and accepts this resignation? It's been two months. So far, the public has not received any information on the circumstances of the appointment of the commander, nor on why you have not dismissed the commander before, nor on the circumstances of the removal of the commander. On the other hand, the situation in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs shows that your government is in chaos. Ministers don't work together. The minister supervising the police says one thing, does not inform, is not informed by the minister of the coordinator of his knowledge for another two months. For another two months, you have tolerated a situation in which the chief of command was a person who did not guarantee the proper exercise of this function. [[Applause]] At this point, it is worth mentioning how Minister Błaszczak supervised the police and other uniformed services. It is worth recalling that when Minister Błaszczak took his position, the level of security in the country and the police work described was very good. In the last 8 years, the proportion of Poles who feel safe in our country has increased from 53% to 66% and the number of crimes has decreased from 1.15 million in 2007 to 830 thousand. in 2015 After your commanding officer's duties have been taken over by your insp. Maya Inspector has made a series of staff changes. These were very profound changes in the headquarters, in the voivodship headquarters, in the police offices. In one of the interviews, Chief Maj stated: "My predecessors exchanged voivodship commanders and staff at the Chief of Police within two to three years. I've made changes within a month, using my powers. Prime Minister, this is the crazy pace of change. This is a pace where you can't prepare the successors of high-level police officers fired. According to Minister Błaszczak's office, the officers who started their service before 1990 were to be executed by the officers who served in the Civic Militia. When they were dismissed, the criteria were not taken into account, the evaluation of their previous service was not taken into account. Let me remind you that police service generally takes a little less time than the work of citizens who work in other areas of life. Now, when it comes to situations in which someone has significant functions today, he is a police officer, these are people who, even if they started their service in the Civic Militia, were not officers at the time. These people gained officer degrees only during the free period of Poland, these people were verified. For 25 years, these people served free Poland and properly exercised their competences. Moreover, for 25 years these people have gained experience. Polish taxpayers invested in their education, in international contacts, in the security of Poles. It was police officers who guaranteed that the police would function properly. The truth is also that the arguments of Minister Błaszczak, the argument repeated in the media, connected with the fact that police officers who started their service in the Civic Militia are not true, because the positions were also lost by people who never served in the Civic Militia. Very many experienced officers lost their posts, who began their ministry in the 1990s. Let me just remind you about the voivodship level. They lost their positions, among other things. Voivodship commanders: Lower Silesia, Lesser Poland, Mazowiecki, Capital, Świętokrzyski, Wielkopolski. These people started their service as early as the '90s, had nothing to do with the Civic Militia. These people were a guarantee of proper development of the Polish Police, they were a guarantee of the security of citizens. Well, after your authority in the department of home affairs and administration, you led to a situation where you got rid of the police of the senior officer corps. These officers either were dismissed from their posts and were often expelled from police work, or they themselves concluded that, in the situation in which they were in, there was no point in continuing to serve, and they retired, often after 25 years of service. Minister, you are guilty that the Polish Police have lost very many experienced officers. [[Applause]] You know you're saying goodbye to these officers. Even this week you said goodbye to the general, former chief of Opole, the person who started his job in the 1990s, the first general's woman in the Polish Police. You said goodbye Monday, didn't you, Minister? You said goodbye to someone who retired after 25 years of work. In this way you part with officers who for many years could serve in the Polish Police and share your experience. In addition to dismissing the police office, the problem is also who you're calling to succeed these high-level police officers. Unfortunately, they are very often people without the necessary experience. It's not their fault they haven't been able to gain experience so far. Until now, high positions in the Police were filled according to the key of experience: the police first served for many years in county headquarters, in voivodeship commands, and only later, after gaining the necessary experience, they were in the headquarters. You've interrupted the application of this rule. You have led to a situation of promotion to very high positions of people without experience. Today you're talking about how the police are functioning normally. Of course, the officers carry out the tasks for which they were trained. Mr. Kajetan Poznanski's case is behind you. Kajetan Poznański was captured by the police because the police were trained to do so, but the problem is that you have weakened the possibilities of planning police work. You sent thousands of garrisons to chief officers who weren't prepared for this. You've led to a situation where in garrisons, in which he often serves at 10,000. Officers, and in whom really need to be managed, have taken up positions of inexperienced officers. [[Game in the O.R.]] What is more, the plague of the police under your rule is a situation where the chief is not called up, but he is entrusted with his duties. There is an impression of temporaryity, a situation in which the police are unable to continue to plan their actions. [[Applause]] Especially...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u5	Excuse me, sir. Members who are not interested... [[From PiS.]] ...to listen to the applicant's representative, please keep quiet or leave the room if they want to speak in sub-groups. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Finally!]] Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u6	Thank you, Marshal. It is particularly worrying that this completely unnecessary staff revolution in the Police is being carried out this year, a few months before World Youth Days and NATO Summit took place in Poland. How will these cops prepare these events without experience, Minister? World Youth Days will be an event in which several million people are likely to participate. Prime Minister! The Minister has led to a situation where the organisation of this event will be carried out by people who do not have the necessary experience. This is a situation that threatens the safety of these people, but also threatens to compromise the state. Inspector Maj was the briefest current commandant in the history of the Polish Police. Unfortunately, with his resignation, the problems in the Polish Police did not end at all. For 35 days now, Minister Błaszczak has been unable to find a successor to the position of Chief of Staff. Prime Minister, these 35 days have been the longest vacancy in the position of Chief of Police for 24 years. This is a situation we haven't dealt with so far. Perhaps this prolonged inability of the Minister to identify the correct commander is the result of the shock associated with the appointment of the Insp. They are the chief commander, but Prime Minister, this situation cannot be tolerated any longer because it threatens the safety of Poles and the proper performance of their duties by the police. The police, let me remind you, is the largest employer in Poland: 100,000. Officers and almost 30,000. civil servants. You've led this country to a situation where this big corporation hasn't had a boss in 35 days. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] Prime Minister, it is also worth saying what it looks like in other services. Although there have not been as far-reaching changes as the police have been, unfortunately, we are already observing the situation that the commanders have been appointed, who have not been in active service for many years. The question is how these chiefs will find themselves under new conditions today and how they will carry out their duties. The fire department has not yet undergone such profound changes in staff, but already the commanders of the voivodship refer, for the time being, to those of the lowest level of command who do not have the necessary competence to take care of the security of Poles in the future. Of course, the fire department, Minister, will continue to put out fires. The problem is what will happen when the flood occurs in Poland, there will be other threats. How will the voivodship commanders appointed by you, people with much less experience than your predecessors, take care of the safety of Poles? [[Applause]] Minister, when you evaluate your staff policy in the services of the Ministry, you may conclude that you are risking a lot. Unfortunately, you're not just risking your own position, but you're actually risking the safety of citizens. It's also worth giving some space to an incident that took place two weeks ago. Two weeks ago there was an accident of President Andrzej Duda's limo. Well, the changes you've made have also been made by the Government Security Office. At the Government Security Bureau, someone who was responsible for the President's safety made an absurd decision and sent the President to the mountains in an unprepared car, in a car that has so far been used for completely different purposes, for short-distance driving, for representation driving in the city. Someone decided to send this car up to the mountains under a ski lift and then sent this car to the highway. [[Look at all the neglect you've done.]] [[Do your job.]] It's amazing. I think it is worth paying attention to how you draw lessons from this situation. Well, the conference of the BOR leaders today was embarrassing. [[You're holding conferences at Owl's.]] We saw officers who, instead of admitting a manifest error and drawing the consequences, hid behind the 2009 instructions, the tire replacement instructions. Minister, you've been a politician for years, and you've mastered the perfection of throwing responsibility for everything on other politicians. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha. What about you guys?]] The problem is that today you are acting in a position related to the security of the citizens. Such a person may not always allow blame to be placed on his opponents, but must draw conclusions, because the safety of the citizens depends on these conclusions. [[The president.]] It is also worth mentioning the scandal that took place over the last few months, during which Minister Błaszczak performs his function. Well, I'm talking about an audit at the Internal Affairs Bureau, an audit prepared by your insp. Maya, who was supposed to prove that the Internal Affairs Bureau was illegally eavesdropping on 80 journalists. No. 13 January 2016 Chief of Police Inspector. Maj specially organized a press conference at which he informed that the officers of the Internal Affairs Bureau were illegally eavesdropping on 80 journalists. He announced an audit at the Internal Affairs Bureau. Well, the trouble is, in a moment's time, my colleague will be developing this in his club speech, that much indicates that at that time, on January 13, Chief Maj knew that there was no illegal eavesdropping on journalists, that there was no violation of the law in this case. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The date of January 13th is not accidental because the conference of your chief police officer coincided with the work in the Seym on the surveillance bill. This conference was probably just meant to cover... [[Lie! 52 journalists...]] ...in the Seym working on an inconvenient bill for you. This is a politicisation of police work that we haven't dealt with so far. [[52 journalists.]] Home Office, Member, Home Office? [[Your power was eavesdropping on 52 journalists!]] Okay, anyway, let's get back to the subject. [[No, we're not talking.]] [[That's what this is about.]] The thesis on the illegal surveillance of journalists was repeated by the Insp. They have many times... [[This is an outrage!]] ...at press conferences, in TV interviews. This thesis was picked up by law and justice politicians. And for a month, you used false information about 80 illegal wirets founded by internal affairs officers. Information about alleged illegal eavesdropping was also used by the ministers of your government. Minister Ziobro wrote an open letter to the Vice-President of the European Commission about 80 illegally eavesdropped journalists in Poland. [[Lie!]] Prime Minister, you're the one who went to the European Parliament with the materials... [[Disgraceful!]] ...in which you pointed out that 80 journalists were illegally eavesdropped in Poland. [[Shame.]] [[Disgraceful!]] The day after the cancellation of the Insp. Maya found out the truth, it turned out that the prosecution in Warsaw assessed the audit prepared at the Office of Internal Affairs and did not see the violation of the law. Well, everything you've been talking about for a few weeks, [[Applause]] It turned out to be completely untrue. It is particularly incriminating that this information, information coming from the Police Headquarters, which is used for political purposes in the country, you have carried abroad. [[Disgraceful!]] You have informed about these false revelations of the most important European politicians. You have given false information to European journalists. You used this information during the debate on the state of democracy in Poland. It's hard to call it anything but reporting to your country abroad. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Prime Minister, Minister Błaszczak After all, he also heard about this information you're giving us about the insp. Maya. It was the responsibility of Minister Błaszczak to bring about a situation in which this information will be verified, in which Mr Insp. Maj will inform Minister Błaszczak whether there have been any illegal activities or not. The prosecution assessed this situation and confirmed clearly: there was no violation of the law in this proceeding. There were no 80 illegal wirets. [[Applause]] Minister Błaszczak should, as part of his supervision, check what is in the audit prepared by the Insp. Maja, and Minister Błaszczak should have informed the Prime Minister before you left for the European Parliament that it should not be done that the information you are using is simply lying and false. [[Bravo!]] Minister Błaszczak probably accepted, with some satisfaction, a situation in which the Chief Commandant joined the political fight, accuses the opposition - he did not intervene in this matter. The problem, Madam Prime Minister, is that the actions and lack of supervision by Minister Błaszczak and the lack of explanation of this alleged illegal eavesdropping of 80 journalists do not embarrass the opposition. We said from the very beginning: This matter needs clarification. We didn't think there was any wiretap. Let's see the paperwork on the table. Explain the matter. [[Names are published!]] From the very beginning, we've been demanding that this case be cleared up. On the other hand, the Minister's omissions embarrassed you and your colleagues both from the government and from Parliament. [[How can you lie like that?]] This country has been using false information for weeks... [[You've been eavesdropping on journalists!]] ...which should be verified by Minister Błaszczak. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The actions of Minister Błaszczak and your Insp. Maja led to a situation of undermining confidence in the Polish Police, a situation in which there was clearly a politicisation of the position of the Chief Chief, who was involved in the political game. This must lead to the loss of citizens' trust in the police in the future. It's something that weighs on your Chief... the Minister. [[Jesus...]] Until now, there has been no situation of consent for the chief police officer to engage in a political dispute. You allowed it. [[Applause]] Today it is difficult to understand why Prime Minister Beata Szydło agrees that Minister Błaszczak will continue to serve as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. [[Kaczynski says.]] Personnel policy, lack of supervision of subordinate services already threatens the security of the state and citizens. Prime Minister Szydło, in connection with the events of the last weeks in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the Police, and recently in the BOR she has not spoken so far. We hope that in this debate... [[We can do this!]] ...you will speak on these matters. But we also hope that you will take personal responsibility for the way in which the services are supervised. Time is special. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Today we are preparing the World Youth Days, preparing the NATO Summit. Unfortunately, Minister Błaszczak's policy leads to the fact that we have no guarantee that these events will be properly prepared. Prime Minister, you are responsible for this. Minister Błaszczak is your subordinate. Finally start supervising what Minister Błaszczak is doing in the department. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] It is particularly painful that the services of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration serve 150,000 people. Officers, we all expect them to behave honorably. - Unfortunately, the minister who supervises their work cannot admit the obvious mistakes and is not able to pay honorably responsibility for them. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the applicants, I ask that a vote of distrust be given to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. [[Long-term applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u7	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Opinion of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the parliamentary request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak: the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs following the examination of this request at its meeting on 8 March 2016 and the discussion held, decided to issue a negative opinion on the proposal submitted. There were 22 Members against the motion for a vote of distrust, who shared the views of the Members of the applicants represented by Mr Mark Wójcik 14 Members. I would also like to inform the High Sejm that the committee has been meeting on this issue twice, because a discussion had also been held earlier on account of the opposition Members' request to the Sejm committee. Thus, a long, multi-hour discussion has been conducted twice and the committee gives a negative opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u9	There you go. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a Only Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will speak at the moment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, the name of Chief Maj from the mouth of President Mark Wójcik was here several dozen times during this speech, but I think we should be aware of one fundamental fact: that Commander Maj no longer serves his function, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak has decided to resign from the position of Chief Maj. Ladies and gentlemen, this is history. Chief Maj is off duty. He's off duty. And this decision of the Minister of the Interior is, standing in an open... There is a huge difference between this decision by the Home Minister and what happened earlier. Mr Marek Wójcik, who has been chairman of the Home Affairs Committee for so many years, is well aware that the standards, Mr President, have changed perfectly. After taking information about the situation of Chief Maja, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak decides to accept his resignation, and meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marek Wójcik has mentioned the name of Chief Maj several dozen times as if we still have this problem today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth reminding the President and the honourable Members who have signed this proposal of what those standards looked like before. [[It's all in the past, too.]] Well, when there were charges against e.g. Minister Sienkiewicz, we all saw on TV screens how the Polish state reacted, how the services reacted, how the ABW reacted. [[Disgraceful.]] [[What charges?]] [[Get to the point.]] The entrance to the weekly "Right," the extraction of the laptop to the editor-in-chief of the magazine, which revealed the state's situation under your rule, was a disgrace. [[Let's get to the point.]] But with the stubbornness of a better cause, you went through and sought to keep your minister in office. Ladies and gentlemen, if you write in your conclusion that there is chaos, that there is a lack of supervision, that Poles may feel dangerous, because we have important events, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth checking what the facts look like. Well, several dozen manifestations, or perhaps even more, so-called. The Democratic Defence Committee. What do these manifestations look like? Relax, professionally. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Right.]] The police take care of everything. [[Okay.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Thank you.]] And when there's even a threat of a bombing, there's a consultation with the head of this manifestation, and the head of the manifesto decides to give up the manifestation... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Exactly. And that's the difference.]] ...not the police who run these meetings. How was it at the time when Mr Marek Wójcik had been head of the committee for so many years? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we've had a shooting at the miners, and you've all seen it on TV screens. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Yes.]] [[Don't lie to me.]] [[Shut up.]] Yeah, yeah, I know these are embarrassing moments, and you're calling it out. We've all seen the marches of November 11th, the battles with the police. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We saw it in ski masks.]] Today, under the rule of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak... [[He hasn't ruled yet.]] ...media - and it is not only the media that are benevolent to the government or indifferent to the government's situation, but benevolent to the state, to the opposition - that it was the safest, most peaceful march of November 11th. [[Applause]] [[But it wasn't Błaszczak yet.]] There's a change of standards, ladies and gentlemen. [[Błaszczak has been since November 16th.]] [[Minister Piotrowska was Minister.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The minister's been here since November 16th.]] [[But that November wasn't yet the minister, don't take credit for it.]] Do you remember... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you want to shout it because you are ashamed of the things that have happened under your rule. Do you remember how all the supporters of the Legion of Warsaw who were driven to the banks of the Vistula River were treated? And today the courts are issuing hundreds of acquittals, hundreds of acquittals after your decision. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Using the police for such a battle was an insult to the police. These things don't happen today. What actually happens in Poland under the rule of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak? Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the decision with regard to the staff of the service, the employees of the civilian police, which you have brought to pauperisation - the lowest wages in all Poland from all services. Police civil servants today are guaranteed a raise. That's your shame too. Another issue concerns more than 800 police stations that have been wound up. Today, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak stops these decisions because you have eliminated half to less than 400, the state police have disappeared from huge areas of the Polish state. This minister stopped this decision and this is your pain, because not only did he stop it, but where justified, as a result of a public consultation, as a result of expert assessments, these posts are restored. This happens at meetings with citizens, with local governments, with institutions. [[Names of places.]] This is painful for you, but this is what happens in Poland at this time and it will still happen because there are hundreds of these meetings. Another thing, if Mr Marek Wójcik here says what happened at the Chief of Police under the command of Chief Maja. Well, I'd like to say that we've just put nearly 100 jobs from the Police Headquarters on the so-called. linear places, where these cops are needed, that's the reform you've been meticulously silent about here, isn't it? Because it's painful that this is the end of the Byzantium you've been accusing of being. [[It's about corruption.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to some of the standards that Mr. Marek Wójcik referred to. Well, it's the Chief of Police of Działoszyński. If you are talking about politicisation, about the political control of the Police Headquarters, about the fact that such personal changes have taken place, it is worth mentioning not only the issue of keeping Commander Działoszynski in office despite many reservations also raised in the Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration. If you are already addressing issues such as politicisation, then it is a great shame, ladies and gentlemen, that not only was this commander held, but he ended this commandant in such a way that he took part in the parliamentary elections in the coalition party list, the Polish People's Party. You've had the opportunity, Mr. President, to at least keep this part of your policy out of the loop. [[Applause]] [[Let's get to the point.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Safe marches of citizens, example of CODE. The success of the police, which are undoubtedly. If President Marek Wójcik has so little confidence in the police that he thinks there are dangerous times today, I assure you that the opinions of not only citizens, but even journalists who are critically looking at the hands of the government, are completely different because the success of the police is obvious: the question of capture of Kajetan P., the question of intercepting multiple drug charges, the question of catching those thieves who claimed to be false convoys. These are obvious things, we all know that. A national security map is being created. If you're talking about dangerous moments coming, which is the World Youth Days or NATO convention, it's your conclusion that is making chaos, because you are giving a signal to the whole world, not the government, but you are giving such a signal that something bad is happening in Poland, isn't it, that citizens... [[Because it's happening.]] ...may not feel safe. Well, I assure you, we'll have a specialist here in a moment. If you look at yourselves... [[There's another one...]] ...the delays are huge, but we will discuss this on the committee. [[Poles are already scared.]] We'll have a specialty on World Youth Days, where the Ministry of Internal Affairs is working, and this document we have. [[To Maja...]] And the state in which you left your work on this project, it would be regrettable to listen. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this proposal is unfounded, the police are working properly, changes are substantive, changes are obvious in a democratic country. The decision with respect to Chief Maj was taken immediately by the Minister after informing the Minister of this situation. You might ask - Minister Piotrowska is smiling - but I would also like to ask the Minister, how is it that Chief Maj in your time was the highest officer in the police. After all, you have been aware of this situation since mid-2015. How did Commander Maj perform his function, e.g. Deputy Head of Central Bureau of Investigation, Deputy Chief of Police in Gdansk and many other important functions in the Police? I understand you've been secretly hiding that knowledge, right? And that you kept her to yourselves just to hide her. Well, that's ridiculous and bizarre accusations from the state. [[Applause]] Law and Justice will be against this proposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u11	There you go. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, will speak at the moment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Referring to the words of the previous speaker from Law and Justice, it can be said that you are more civilized with the chief police officers of your origin, because in 2007 your chief of police led anti-terrorists, and now you thanked Mr. May in a more civilized way. [[Applause]] Respect. The motion for resignation of Minister Błaszczak is important not only because it concerns the key security concerns of Poles from the Ministry of Interior and Administration, but also because the scale of irregularities in the Ministry subject to the Minister is unprecedented. Let's start with the most important one: a terrorist threat. The Minister announced in December that the Anti-Terrorism Act would be passed in January. I don't know, it's mid-March, the bill's gone. There will be 2.5 million people from all over the world coming to Krakow on the World Youth Day, and at the last moment there will be an additional million. We all know and remember there were laws for which you could sacrifice the night, the holidays. The Terrorist, Counter-Terrorism Act has not yet been adopted, but in Małopolska, where this huge event will be held, there is no police management. You couldn't handle the bill, but you did have time to replace the chief of voivodship, and the deputies and professionals left. [[Scandal.]] The second point mentioned by my previous speaker, Mr Wójcik, is a terrible staff decision, i.e. calling without checking the chief of police. For the first time in Poland's history, it was thanks to you that at the head of the largest uniform service in Poland was a person who was not properly verified, a person who remained in the interest of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Łódź due to corruption. This is your concern for the safety of Poles. You tried to convince the public that May had given up personal reasons. The truth is, you forced him to resign. We don't know if, and if so, on what basis did you give the chief of police information from the criminal proceedings that are going on. You're avoiding specific answers to these questions. At the committee meeting, you did not answer any questions from Members of the Civic Platform. In fact, you're saying that some state services have given you this candidacy. Let me remind you that it is your prime minister who appoints the chief of police at your request. You're responsible for this. You don't want to answer that question because the answer is trivial. You didn't speak to the Central Anti-corruption Bureau because you're not in the best personal relations with Minister Kaminski and the CBA could have a negative opinion of Chief Maj. But in order to stay on the issue of surveillance - because we know that the CBA started surveillance of Commander Maja still in December - you replicated an amazing lie about 80 supposedly being eavesdropped under the rule of the Platform of Journalists. But in order to mediatically cover the surveillance bill, which concerns among others. Internet surveillance, you decided to launch this on December 29th, when the motion for a surveillance bill came into the Sejm. Then you repeated that crap on January 12th, 13th. At the end of December, you ordered Commander May to draw up an audit in person, whose results you met on 12 January. In the black and white audit it is written that listening to journalists under the rule of the Civic Platform was not there. On 19 January, Prime Minister Szydło replicated this lie in the European Parliament, you deliberately put Poland, Poles in a bad light in the eyes of other European countries. Is that patriotism in your performance? [[Applause]] More than that, you continued to lie. During the session of the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs and Administration on my question about the results of this audit, you said in the police on 24 February: When it comes to audit, it is on. You lied. You lied. On 12 January, Chief Maj handed over to several institutions, and you knew it well, I assume that the Prime Minister also knew about it, the result of the report we have. The first page, the party that is public, the attachments are confidential, that's what we demanded as the Civic Platform for a few weeks in the Seym, that's what you refused us the marshal, that's what you refused to disclose on the committee, that's what you lied about. [[Applause]] Quote: Information. Inspections have been carried out to clarify the circumstances of the journalists' wiretap. The information didn't match. You knew it, you knew it, you refused to inform the Polish parliament about it. You were in a lie. [[Applause]] But since we're on surveillance, your Deputy Minister Zieliński has announced that it is necessary to verify how the protesters of the Committee for Democracy are recruited. This is an extraordinary and dangerous announcement that in the field of your interest, and we know that you are capable of many things, will soon or already be the activity of the opposition. Another topic, not widely known to the public, because the case was not to see the light of day, is the embarrassing alcohol scandal in the Kosovo police continuance, a special continent. Well, one of the victims of your conduct was the director of the International Affairs Office at the Police Headquarters - a high-ranking professional, professional person who was responsible for this unit. As it so happens, a few weeks ago, several police officers of this unit in Kosovo were caught in an extremely indicative state. These people were relegated to Poland, attempted to cover up the case, I know that after our speech disciplinary proceedings were initiated at the Police Headquarters, but this is the result of the chaos to which you bring not only in Poland but also in units located outside our country. The Internal Affairs Office also embraced your HR revolution. It is a revolution devouring its own children. Well, you've called and canceled not only the police chiefs, you've already exchanged the head of the Internal Affairs Office twice already. At the head of this elite formation of 300 specialists was a little-known warden, who has so far conducted the work of seven police officers at the police station in Piotrków Trybunalski. The question as to whether the advantage of this person, its main accomplishment on the CV, was that it originated in the city of the electoral district of Mr Antoni Macierewicz. Is this the kind of person who's supposed to be head of the police department, the Internal Affairs Bureau? Finally, a few words about a sound and cost-effective administration, because I heard that you are gathering a lot of resources to reach the budget. You were holding conferences in the head police chief's bathroom, but you threw out dozens of high-level officers, they went to the so-called. freezers. Currently, 70 officers remain in a group of temporary posts. These people do nothing, do no tasks, but every month the Polish taxpayer puts half a million zlotys on their maintenance. It's about proportions -- you're holding conferences in the toilets, but you don't see the scale of your own waste, the waste of your administration. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, the police have never destroyed so much by so few. That person is sitting next to you. I believe that you attach great importance to your truthfulness. [[I don't believe it.]] You failed the test of competence, you could not answer any questions from Members of the Platform during the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration. [[Scandal!]] But you failed the truth-telling exam. Prime Minister, the Minister may have misled you. Appeal: maybe we don't move on to the vote, but on the basis of this truthfulness, a very important principle, attachment to the word, the weight of the word... I can give it to you right now. [[Mr Krzysztof Brejza forwards the documents to the Prime Minister Beacie Szydło]] This is proof that you have been misled perhaps - and perhaps you had already known - by your own minister. Depart Minister Błaszczak, I appeal on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u14	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u15	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Wait a minute, sir. Please leave the podium. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What should I leave the platform?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u16	Mr. Marshal... [[Tom, okay...]] Marshal, 50 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u17	Mr President, once again, please leave the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u18	I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u19	High Seym! The session shall be held by the Marshal of the Sejm, who shall be called by Members who shall be registered in order. So please kindly wait until you are called. [[Nerves in the wind.]] [[You just took a few seconds.]] Member Tomasz Szymański from the Civic Platform Club has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u20	Thank you for having such a warm reception. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[May I? Yes, you can.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Every day we discover more cards of incompetent decisions made by your government and by your ministers. And the chaos caused by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration in the various departments, all the more so. If it is not a clean discharge, the honourable Prime Minister, 13 commanders in three weeks, while congratulating them on very good results within their jurisdiction, what is the purgatory? Dear Minister, Dear Prime Minister, Relax, CODE demonstrators may have been able to demonstrate until Minister Zieliński spoke, who announced that there would be total surveillance of everyone and implementation of the method of recruitment for CODE. The only perfect cover for your incompetence was the speech by Minister Kaminski, who covered your incompetence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there's no way to answer questions in committee, Minister. You didn't say anything. You behaved like a politician at a minor election rally in the county city. This is not the minister that Poland expects. This is not the kind of minister that citizens expect. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u21	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kukiz, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the matter of Commander Maja, Mr Wójcik focused primarily on the thread of alleged corruption by Commander Maj. I'm just gonna say it briefly. This is about proceeding, taking a bribe in the form of five bottles of vodka. It's been going on for 15 years, it's been explained many times, and it's been abandoned many times. The second charge is the proceedings for a pretend-false claim of property, except according to my information no one checked that Maj inherited a lot of land from his parents. [[Voice from the room: Big deal...]] The third issue is the employment of the wife. I'm not gonna spread it around. I know one thing: it's not for me to decide if Chief May 15 years ago took five bottles of vodka or didn't take five bottles of vodka, because that's what the courts and prosecutors are for. I want to draw attention to another aspect, namely that... Here I refer these words to Minister Zieliński, because he is responsible for the State Police. I cannot be surprised that one essential thing has not been taken into account that Mr. Zbigniew Maj was an officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation, and this is a very specific service. Around 2000, at the beginning of 2000, the 21st century was called. A covert officer, an operational officer, who interacts so much with criminals. Each of these so-called officers. The Central Bureau of Investigation, on each of them you will find hooks, on each one. And now I can't figure out how you could hire a chief of chief, a man who every criminal can have on a fork, talk, etc., etc. I can't understand it. I was convinced that Minister Zieliński was aware of the specifics of the earlier service, otherwise the great police officer Zbigniew Maj. It was a huge risk, but now that you've taken that risk, it's unacceptable to leave an officer to himself. You guys wash your hands now. You're not here. And you left a cop alone. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I myself will abstain from voting on a vote of distrust for Minister Błaszczak, but only because I have, I have a deep hope that he will consider whether he will surely do the right thing, pointing to a position, entrusting the role of Deputy Minister to a man who, I see, has no great idea of the police. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a great performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u23	Thank you. Mr Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The allegations made by the PO to Minister Błaszczak may be misplaced. In this, of course, is the matter of Chief Maj explained here, among others. by Mr Paul Kukiz and referring to similar staff changes. They prove, yes, that the police community is unfortunately unknown. But a much more serious issue is the question of the principles of functioning of state institutions in Poland: police, fire department, customs service, etc. The INSP case. Once again, Maya revealed the malfunction of the partyocracy system. If it weren't for him, there wouldn't be an exchange of staff in the police and other services after every change in political power. This is a sick system generating wrong promotions and appointments. The argument of the PO's request to dismiss Minister Błaszczak confirms this in full. PiS may also hold conferences, Mr, in toilets, but not in cemeteries or in the owl's restaurant. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] It's not about professionalism, it's about availability, and even if this professionalism is, it doesn't matter in the public opinion anyway. But we, Kukiz,15, also have to deal with Minister Błaszczak maybe not resentment, but serious expectations. Our attitude to the management of the resort is based on substantive and not political considerations. Hence we ask: Minister, what have you done to discount the results of the audit carried out at the Ministry of Home Affairs on 15 November 2015? It mentions, for example, irregularities in civil law contracts concluded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under the rule of the predecessors, the lack of action to reduce pension benefits paid to former officials of totalitarianism, a regime that reaches up to 21 thousand. zł. What about the relocation of immigrants within the European Union? Your audit does not leave a dry thread on these activities, and the state is going through the solutions proposed by PO-PSL. How many of the 192 recommendations of the Polish migration policy - the state of the art and the proposed actions have been implemented? Yet they are important in the acquisition and transmission of data systems on foreigners, registration policy and coordination of immigration cases. The P.O.'s made it 16. How many do you have? The credibility of the MMA in this respect is the clear justification for the initiative of the Kukiz club15 to collect signatures on the referendum on migration policy. The Poles expect you to be firm. [[Applause]] The police are working as they were. In Wadowice against the mayor or rather his decisions are protested by a group of people, and there are several uniformed policemen and several after the civilian. There's a lot more. They don't answer why they're protecting the manifestation and filming. The district commander, or even the voivodship commander, does not provide information on what the films will be used for. It's supposed to be a new quality, and there are old habits. They are the result of politicisation, not professionalism. The police must change from a militarised formation to a maid service. Why didn't D.A. Witkowski return to the service or start a full-blown investigation into the murder of Fr. George Popieluszka? For you and the government, Prime Minister Szydło has passed only a hundred and several dozen days, but for Poles it is a hundred and several dozen days. You've had eight years to prepare. What have you done to limit the number of slot machines? People are suffering from it. From January 1st, the number was supposed to decrease, and it's growing. The bill is legit. Nor can the BOR be accepted as favourable solutions. I mean, you knew about this institution that it was obsessed with pathology. The boss's shift hasn't changed much. The remaining procedures, which led to the accident of President Andrzej Duda. Yes, the car was not adapted to the conditions, but it was also unprepared at all. It is a period of several years since the previous replacement of tires, and at that time the bountymen appointed by the POs did not carry out the necessary reviews for several years. We're gonna fight a lot to win the voter's favor, and we're not gonna get enough work and results. It seemed that the theoretical state ended with the collapse of Ewa Kopacz's government. Unfortunately, it continues. Members of the Kukiz Club will decide on a vote individually. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u25	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! If you will allow me, at first I wanted to quote the words of the Prime Minister from the exposé: I extend my hand to cooperation for good things for Poland. I will also quote the Prime Minister's statement from the interview on 26 February when we discussed the 100 days of the Prime Minister's government: our projects stem from the expectations of Poles. In matters that are important to citizens, politicians should rise above divisions, so the government has invited the opposition to cooperate, but this proposal has not been taken. At this point, Prime Minister, I wouldn't exactly agree. After such words, it can be asked why Minister Błaszczak did not take advantage of the invitation to the closed meeting of the Modern Club to discuss in peace the situation related to the crisis and the confusion connected with the resignation of Chief Police Officer Zbigniew Maj. It must be admitted that in a very elegant way, but he strongly refused such a meeting, even though we wrote in the invitation: we want to be a constructive opposition that works with the government for the benefit of the citizens. The Minister of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration should be expected to be a responsible person, with strong nerves, a person who puts the State's interests ahead of the party interest, and one who will be open to dialogue with the opposition. We were also hoping that at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs we would learn about the scenes connected with the resignation of Chief Zbigniew Maj. Unfortunately, none of the details were presented, and after the statements of PiS and representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, it was possible to get the impression that we were discussing the motion for a vote of mistrust for Minister Piotrowski. It was also troubling that Minister Kaminski informed the committee that information about objections to your commandant Maja had been transmitted almost two months before the decision to revoke it. So the question is whether, knowing about these ambiguities, it was not used to make Chief Maj a more controllable person. I think this is such a characteristic for many nominations that the nominations of the PiS cause that high positions are not called the most competent people, only those who really are loyal and will follow every command of their superiors. Such suspicion is also implied by the fact of the participation of Chief Maj, one might say, in the Brazilian telenovela entitled: Byzantium at the Police Headquarters. That show was really embarrassing. You have to admit, Chief Maj behaved elegantly and apologized. Poles for participating in this farce. As regards the reservations to Minister Błaszczak, who is responsible for state security and for the operation of the police, it is important to stress the very bad decision which had to be consulted with the Minister, the cancellation of 15 of the 17 police chiefs, often with their deputy. An example of these very irresponsible actions is a matter of appeal, among others. Chief of Regional Police in Krakow. He was dismissed with his deputy, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that General Dąbek was in the assessment of many specialists the most competent person in terms of securing mass events. When the World Youth Day is held in Krakow in July, I will be honest with you, the removal of your commandant four months before this event, when he has been involved in preparing the security of this mass event for a year, is terrifying. This can also include personal changes in both the fire department and the Border Guard. Personnel policy is the biggest problem of the current power. This also shows the last case, when changes in the Office of Government Protection, I am not saying that directly, but they could have contributed significantly to the fact that President Andrzej Duda had an accident and his life was in danger. I will not hide that I believe that such personal decisions may have affected what happened on the A4 motorway. Another charge concerns the confusion around a rather archaic duty, which is the reporting obligation. It was like a two-voice message from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, because Minister Jarosław Zieliński clearly said that we did not depart from this, while earlier Minister Mariusz Błaszczak spoke about the elimination of this really archaic reporting obligation. I would also like to raise a case, which is also quite current, namely the difficulty of counting. The Police Command presented a report on the number of the last manifestations of the CODE in Warsaw. Information provided by police officers - 15 thousand. But, ladies and gentlemen, we all saw on public television that there were up to 200 people there. Where'd you get that $15,000? Did it come? I don't know. And to be honest, ladies and gentlemen, there were 50,000. people, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] who voluntarily, not paid by anyone, have come to demonstrate that this country is at risk and that democracy in this country is at risk. And that's why I was very appalled, and not only by me, by the words of Minister Zieliński, who claimed that the people who participated in these demonstrations will be checked - who paid for their arrival, who encouraged them to do so, and it will be police action. I made such a declaration in committee, Prime Minister: if we are indeed in financial difficulties with the budget, I can voluntarily tell the Minister who talked me into what money I went there and what I was doing there. Why spend public money on such an investigation? I'll report it to you voluntarily. And I'm afraid most of the people who were at that demonstration will be very calm to pass on that information to save some money. I would also like to talk about matters which Poles consider important, and here the ministry was not entirely able to put forward a real position - a position on migration in Europe, the potential breakdown of the Schengen area, security against terrorism. And I'm going to say that in this chaos, people need normality and security. Unfortunately, the lack of openness to the dialogue I have already mentioned, the lack of basic supervision of the police, the problems with counting, the lack of protection of the president, is, as far as I can tell, a little bit of the PiS state in the lens. I would like to say a few more things here, because we hear a number of accusations that matters related to these shortcomings in the ministry are not so important. I would like to recall such data that Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, as head of the PiS club, has repeatedly applied for resignation from the PO-PSL coalition for quite trivial reasons. I would like to remind you of the attempts to dismiss Minister Mucha for holding the Madonna concert, the cancellation of the President of TVP for issuing a German historical series, the cancellation of Minister Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz for revealing the content of the conversation with Mr Mark Belka. Let me say this: unfortunately, a country that does not have full information about the state of security for its citizens, a country that generates fear, uncertainty, risk for each of us, is simply a bad country. That is why we will vote in favour of the cancellation of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u27	There you go. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u28	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Błaszczak. Ladies and gentlemen, you have announced that your governments will be accompanied by a good change. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak decided to do It's fast, it's too fast, so we've got a quick change from the beginning. The question is, is it fast means good? The Minister has proven many times that he hasn't. The example of police management shows this best: rapid change of command is aggravated by chaos in this formation, as already said by police officers themselves. I'll add that he's limping, and very much so, cooperation between the services. Each minister is guarding his own backyard and completely does not remember what is necessary in these activities. Poles see that today's promised good change is only that we are drowning in chaos, feelings of insecurity of Poles, that we are dealing with everything else today, not what he promised before the PiS elections. One of the symbols of this government's failure is the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mariusz Błaszczak. Under his direction, civil service, special services were taken over, a surveillance bill was introduced, unconfirmed reports of alleged illegal eavesdropping of journalists during the PO-PSL regime were disseminated. And that's all in just four months. High Izbo! The Minister of Home Affairs should be evaluated on the basis of the effects of its actions, the reforms undertaken and their effects. The four months of government of PiS and Minister Błaszczak have hit the foundations of a democratic state. There can therefore be no positive action to be taken by the Ministry led by Minister Błaszczak. Ladies and gentlemen, the great celebrations we're going to celebrate all over the world are not going to happen on their own. I mean, of course, the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. I hope it doesn't turn out that the only success of Minister Błaszczak is a quick purchase of new limos for the president and the government, because it would just be sad. Today we are discussing a vote for the head of the MMA, and people are protesting again in the streets, this time against the dramatic bad land sales bill. Both Minister Błaszczak and Minister Jurgel are fully aware that this terrible bill is taking the land away from farmers. However, the PiS never confesses to mistakes and goes on in its politics, regardless of people on the streets or with opposition. The farmers themselves will settle the measures concerning agriculture, and Minister Błaszczak himself must answer the question whether he is suitable for the head of this department. According to the PSL club, the last 100 days have shown that this resort simply does not grasp. There is no indication that anything will change in this regard. There was supposed to be a briefcase full of laws, and today the public is dealing with completely different files. I would like to say very clearly that there is no consent of the Polish People's Party to promises of fraud and ministerial inadequacies. [[The crooks were your government.]] Mr. Suski, we are here discussing Minister Błaszczak and before the Seym a huge demonstration of defenders of Polish land. [[Well, go take a look.]] [[Voice from the room: Against PSL.]] Open your eyes. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of the cancellation of Minister Błaszczak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Go to the demonstration, or you won't find a place.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u29	There you go. At the moment, I ask the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I refer to the proposal that has been presented here, the request for the cancellation of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, allow me to address our citizens to make them feel safe, because you have said so many uncreated things here that people may actually feel threatened. So I want to assure all Poles that you are safe. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Poles already know them.]] [[I'm asking for arguments.]] And I have a request for opposition. It is your right, of course, to submit requests for a vote of distrust, your right is to raise debates on various important, interesting topics, but let's talk about facts, substance, let's not create confusion, chaos and confusion. [[Quote from Kaminski.]] You are now trying to build your own political positions in such chaos and confusion. This is a very bad and dangerous road. [[Applause]] [[In Parliament?]] As regards the request made here, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to these arguments, including the arguments made by Mr Mark Wójcik, and I regret to say that this is perhaps the weakest request for a vote of confidence... [[Distrust.]] ...for the minister I've ever heard. I am sorry to say this because I very much appreciate Mr Wójcik, but I understand that he has received a political task which he had to perform because there are no arguments today that such a motion for the cancellation of Minister Błaszczak should be made. It's just the truth. [[Applause]] [[There are no political orders here, Prime Minister.]] And I think that your interest in this discussion, the debate, shows that you know that you're participating, or you've caused something that just doesn't make sense right now. [[Isn't it different from you?]] [[The committees are here.]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] We've wasted a lot of time. We've taken a lot of time and a lot of time for you and your people who couldn't work on important matters at the committee right now, and for the ministers, and for the citizens. [[Applause]] What does that mean? What are the arguments? Mr Czartoryski said rightly, most often it appeared here in this speech, in the justification, but also in the speeches of representatives of clubs, the name of Chief Maja. He's not chief of police anymore. [[He never should have been.]] [[Nobody is.]] And Minister Błaszczak did what he should have done. As soon as he informed that he should not perform this function, he was dismissed from that function. There is no topic today that you are trying so hard to talk about. [[Voice from the room: What about Customs?]] You were talking about staff changes. I will ask you - also your rapporteur, but also those countries that have raised this issue - on what grounds do you claim that those appointed at the moment to important posts in the services, including in the police, are not competent. On what grounds do you conclude that? How can you do that? Just come here, on the platform, and say, "This gentleman's not fit, is he not fit?" [[Voice from the room: irresponsible.]] [[Voice from the room: They're not from the Platform.]] What are the facts? Tell me about the facts. [[Voice from the room: BOR.]] [[Szczecin.]] This conclusion is nothing more than confirming that, above all, the main opposition club can't cope with its opposition today, just as it couldn't handle governance. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] No argument, no job, just taking care of yourself all the time. You're still dealing with Law and Justice right now. Do something for the citizens. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're building a conflict because right now it's your only idea to define yourself politically. But the Poles are sick of it. [[Voice from the hall: Poles are sick of you.]] Now, stop fueling this conflict, because it doesn't lead to anything good. Indeed, we are open to cooperation. [[Please publish the judgment of the Constitutional Court.]] We want to work together, unfortunately, for the time being, we only hear either a break or a law and justice. We don't hear any constructive ideas from you. [[Applause]] [[Publish the verdict!]] Give me something, we'll work on it. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: All ideas are rejected.]] [[Something smarter than that.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, if we try to reflect on this debate today and on the proposal that has come to pass, let us ask ourselves: What is the difference between Minister Błaszczak and his predecessors from the Civic Platform? [[He doesn't like octopus.]] What's different is that public funds have been used to raise police officers, not octopus in expensive restaurants. [[Applause]] [[Told you?]] One of the first decisions of Minister Mariusz Błaszczak was the decision to increase salaries for those who defend the security of Poles and Poles for officers. [[This has been prepared by the previous government!]] [[Ma'am, you're gonna calm down.]] His decision was to turn to the organization of the service so that the police would indeed have the opportunity to work decently and to pay decently for this work. After the governments of the Interior Ministers Platforms, what did we remember? Saying about a bunch of rocks, embarrassing that cops, instead of caring about citizens' safety, had to chase down waiters who recorded ministers... [[The Prime Minister has no other arguments to defend Minister Błaszczak?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me remind you that one of the ministers equipped the service with headless aircraft. This is the work of your ministers. [[Applause]] [[You were confusing immigrants with refugees.]] What do you want to cancel Minister Mariusz Błaszczak for today? For calling off the Chief of Police when he got word that this officer wasn't supposed to be doing this job? [[For calling without checking!]] Today decisions are made quickly, efficiently. [[Anything.]] I know it's a problem for you because it was different for you guys. But we say from the beginning that our governments will be completely different, that it will be a whole new quality. And it is. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] On the other hand, using arguments by applicants from the Civic Platform about the safety of the most important people in the country, speaking at the moment, referring to the car you were travelling with the president, and showing it as negligence... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Incompetence.]] [[That's how you work.]] [[You're changing everything. You just forgot to change the tires.]] [[Quiet!]] ...as a reason to draw conclusions from Minister Błaszczak, it is hypocritical... [[Voice from the O.R.: You can't blame it on us.]] ...it's from your mouth that it's hypocritical. In 2010 the President of the Republic of Poland and the people who accompanied him on his way to Smolensk died. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[For four years, you're gonna blame everything on your predecessors?]] [[Fly, calm down.]] The head of the BOR from your broadcast - then he was responsible for the safety of these people - after this catastrophe he received general stars. [[Shame!]] [[The voice from the hall: Shame and shame!]] That's the difference between us. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You're cynical and you're hypocrites... [[Without a finger...]] It's your idea of politics, your place in politics. [[Discredit!]] [[Hands, hands.]] But it won't be our agreement that it's an idea for Poland. That's not gonna happen! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Please really start from today, according to law and conscience.]] [[Tram, keep your voice down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today there are many false words, many speeches. But above all, it is an expression of helplessness, because there are no arguments, there are no facts. This request has been made only to cause political confusion. We don't have time to play the way you propose. We want to work. Let us do our job! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Court! Sentence!]] You're talking about things that... There's no telling where you got that information. [[Definitely not from public media.]] Let me give you just one example: in Małopolska is appointed chief of the Police Voivodeship. Nothing's going on. World Youth Days - preparations go very well. NATO Summit - preparations are coming. I don't want to get divorced right now, talk about how many neglects we had to fix after your government, how we had to chase time... [[Exactly.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: How long will it take us to correct you?]] [[Scab, shut up!]] ...but for 8 years you took responsibility for Poland and today in this helplessness you are looking for those responsible elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this conclusion - I think that the Poles saw it, heard it - was completely, once again, only an expression of the helplessness of the opposition, which today cannot find an idea for itself. [[Applause]] [[The opposition respects itself.]] It's an expression of helplessness... [[Helplessness and ruining the country.]] ...an opposition that seeks self-realization in a conflict that stimulates bad emotions. You are talking about human rights violations, you are talking about threatened democracy, but you yourself talked about the fact that there are demonstrations in Poland today, that they are safe. [[It's still slow! Thank you so much for letting us go!]] Right now there are people in front of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister's office, tents set up, police guarding their security. Nobody chases them down, shoots them like you shot the miners in the Hawk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, thank you.]] You want us to remind you of that? You want us to talk about this all the time, about the demonstration of the miners in the Hawk? We are supposed to talk about the time when the recordings exposing the previous government, the recordings of ministers, instead of drawing consequences and explaining themselves to the Poles, you entered the editorial office of the newspaper that revealed it? That was your rule. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, you can't do anything else.]] Today is peace and we want, I'll repeat, work again. [[Work. Publish the sentence.]] Just don't disturb it. The Poles judged you in the election. You cannot continue to accept this, but you are, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the citizens who voted for you. Respect it, respect it, respect it! [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: And who...]] [[Scabs, please calm down.]] [[To the tram.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Błaszczak is one of the best internal affairs ministers who, after 1989, served as head of this department. [[Applause]] I'll say it again: one of the best. It is a great honor for me to cooperate with Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. I have every confidence in him. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not be drawn into this political conflict that you are trying to provoke here in Poland and abroad. We will be faithful to our commitments to Poles until the end, because that is why we are here. There's no time to solve the confusion you're sowing. We are here to implement the program that Poles are waiting for. Your helplessness, your desire to tear down, that evil energy that's constantly resinating... [[Voice from the room: About energy is recently Macierewicz...]] ... You're trying to inoculate yourself and you're trying to inoculate her more and more... [[Bad emotions.]] ...is really unnecessary. Come to your senses because this is the beginning of your term of office. You have the chance to do something really good for Poland during these four years if you take your role, your mission seriously. If you're just here to start a fight and chaos, we're really in the way. [[Why are you insulting us?]] [[You're insulting yourselves, looking at you is enough.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Błaszczak, once again, is one of the best ministers. It's a great honor... [[Voice from the hall: What culture from a colleague beats.]] ...to work with him. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Don't jamm the Prime Minister.]] Poles, Polish citizens can feel safe. He runs the resort well, and I'm calm about the outcome of the vote here in the Seym... [[Henry Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Of course, of course.]] ...but I think, ladies and gentlemen, that first of all we should focus more on what belongs to us - on our work, really on our work for the Polish state, not on the fact that we need to deal with the ongoing fights caused by the opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause, Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote at noon. 13.30. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[The applicant has made himself known. Applicant!]] [[That's enough. You've exhausted yourself with your boring moon speeches. That's enough.]] You don't have the right to vote. [[How's it gone?]] The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: The applicant always has!]] [[Sit down!]] [[Madame, you will shut up.]] High Seym, please check the rules. I told you at the very beginning who has the right to speak after the debate. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016 (prints No 314 and 318). I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u32	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Committee on National Defence, I have the honour to report on the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, print No 314. On 10 March 2016, the Committee on National Defence carried out its first reading and discussed the draft law on the government draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen! Two years ago a great success of Polish diplomacy was announced, which was the appointment of Poland to hold the NATO Summit in Warsaw in 2016. What's next? Turns out the government's activity on this PR ad is over. Ladies and gentlemen, during the whole period practically nothing has been done, which would result in the subsequent stages of preparation for this so complex logistically, organizationally events in Poland. As an example, it was known from the beginning that the NATO Summit would be held at the National Stadium. After the rule of law and justice was taken over, it turned out that the National Stadium was not even reserved for this event. Similarly, no logistical, organisational preparations have been initiated, which require procedures that require tenders, which are primarily time-consuming. We have received such a situation that, a few months before the summit, we are unable to prepare and conduct any tenders that require time under the Public Procurement Law regime, especially time. If we do not carry out this bill, which is proceded in extraordinary mode, it will threaten not to prepare in the right way our big event. Therefore, the National Defence Commission, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 10 March 2016, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u33	Here you go, and thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're not here? You're here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of the club on the draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016, prints No 314 and 318. The draft law is based on the need to define separate regulations for the project in question. Unfortunately, the previous government of PO-PSL has done little towards the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, precisely the summit in Warsaw, which is why it is now necessary to quickly amend the rules. The NATO Summit, to be held in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July 2016, is expected to be attended by Heads of State and Government from 28 Member States and a significant number of delegations and accredited journalists. Such a large event requires special preparation and therefore it is necessary to introduce a solution whereby the award of public contracts relating to the organisation of the summit will be excluded from the application of the provisions of the Law of 29 January 2004. It is necessary to derogate from the basic principle of the Public Procurement Law, i.e. transparency of the public procurement procedure. The exclusion of this principle is intended to ensure the security of the NATO Summit participants. Disclosure of information related to the organisation of the NATO Summit may pose a significant threat to the fundamental interests of the Republic of Poland and the countries taking part in the meeting. With a view to maintaining the high security standards of the NATO Summit, public procurement will have to take place in a short time. The existing provisions of the Public Procurement Law do not ensure safety and adequate response to unforeseen emergencies. In the present situation, it is necessary to limit access to information relating to the procurement procedure where this is justified on grounds of security. Therefore, with a view to ensuring the safety of participants and bystanders at the NATO Summit in Warsaw, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! NATO Member States, but also our country promises a great deal after the summit which will take place in the Republic of Poland in the summer. It is important that Poland prepares itself well for the NATO summit. Many of the necessary measures to be taken can be identified. First of all, it should prepare this summit on the government side. Everyone expects a ruling from the Constitutional Court to be published. Everyone expects the constitutional crisis, the crisis concerning the Constitutional Tribunal to be resolved. Everyone expects the President of the Republic to take the oath from three judges elected in accordance with the Constitution of the Constitutional Tribunal so that the Constitutional Tribunal can recognise cases in full, 15 persons. The bill submitted by the government is also intended to help organise the summit. But there are significant doubts as to whether this project, firstly, is compatible with European law and secondly whether it is really necessary. Why? Because the Public Procurement Law in Article. 4 provides: the law shall not apply to contracts which have been awarded a "secret' or "secret' clause in accordance with the provisions on the protection of classified information, or where the essential interests of State security or the protection of public security so require. We have the legal basis for taking the decisions that the rapporteur has just said, without such significant interference in the public procurement system. These doubts are not limited to the Civic Platform Club. These doubts were expressed unambiguously in the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 9 March 2016. Let me quote a very large part of this opinion. In total, the opinion is as long as the justification for the bill: The draft submitted for consideration by the Council of Ministers maintains the exclusion of the application of the Public Procurement Law to contracts related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit, including contracts with a value equal to or higher than those laid down in the European Union Directives on the coordination of public procurement procedures. For this reason, I maintain the position expressed in the opinion of the draft submitted for consideration by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers of 3 March 2016 that such exclusion raises doubts regarding compliance with European Union law. The exclusion of public contracts which, by virtue of their value, fall within the scope of the European Union Directive shall be admissible only if it falls within the scope of the exceptions set out in those Directives. About one of these exceptions I told you just now. It's an art. 4 of the Act point 5. This opinion shows that the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the Minister for National Defence and the Secretary of the Council of Ministers earlier that such a law is contrary to European law. The conclusion is clear. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that, in order to ensure that the proposed law is compatible with European Union law, it should be clarified that the exemption provided for in Article 1 is excluded. 1 paragraph 1 applies only to public contracts whose value is less than the amounts laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 Public Procurement Law Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this reason, the Civic Platform Club cannot support this law because it contains such disadvantages that make this regulation contrary to European law. Preparations have been carried out by the government of the previous term of office and can, without prejudice to European law, be completed by applying the Public Procurement Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u37	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I read this very short special act. I'm convinced by the justification. Indeed, we will have an important event to prepare for. I am able to understand that the Law and Justice came after the elections the theoretical state, I understand that certain things must be done, changed in an extraordinary way, that we may not be able under normal conditions to prepare for the summit, that some laws, the implementation of them must be moved quickly, because the previous government has not managed to prepare everything properly, but let us not be fooled, what is proposed, the government project of this special act is a prosthesis, a prosthesis foreseen for extraordinary circumstances, and I hope that in the near future we will leave this practice, which may be working in a theoretical state, and we will be a permanent, universal law, a law that covers all issues, and we will not adopt special laws that will fix temporary problems and do not create systemic conditions for action. Since this is an emergency situation, we understand this justification, we will vote in favour of this law, and this is, you can say, the last chance, more such a discount will not be, you will not be able to hide in a year's time, in two years' time, that some things have not been prepared by the previous government, but now I hope that we will depart from this theoretical state and that any subsequent laws will be properly prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, also from the Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we are at a time when we will vote for the specialist. I would like to add to the rapporteur's voice, President of the Committee on National Defence, that practically all the members of the Committee on National Defence were in favour of voting on this bill, and were in favour of not making any big complications here, because the problem is quite important, quite serious. If we assume that so far the preparations for the NATO Summit have been carried out in a range of dozens of percent, then we are dealing with such a typical situation, for our country of course, that everything is done at the last moment. So being people already prepared for this situation, we should not be surprised that we are introducing special laws. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I would like to say to my colleague at the Kukiz club15: "May these peaks be every year." Even if these particularities had to be introduced, this summit is very important to us, very important. That is why Kukiz15 is understanding about this matter and we will vote in favour of this speciality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Cyranski from the Modern Club will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Government draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, prints No 314 and 318. The draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016 does not raise, in principle, any objections to the modern club. We agree to a separate and occasional regulation concerning this project. Consequently, the award of public contracts related to the organisation of the NATO Summit will be excluded from the obligation to apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Law. It is a good thing that the drafters of the law have taken into account the fundamental principle of anti-corruption in the award of public contracts for the organisation of the summit, namely the provision of basic information on these contracts. However, this course of action needs to be clarified. Since the Public Procurement Act is to be excluded and the draft law allows for the secrecy of a number of information with a reference to the general and, consequently, a discretionary concept of security, it is necessary to strengthen instruments to protect citizens' confidence in the integrity of state institutions organising the NATO Summit. Modern Club offers go in two directions. First of all, we propose a statutory record of the summit being placed under special supervision by the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office. We therefore propose to add an appropriate provision of Article. 4 so that this supervision is not illusory. This provision requires the head of the CBA to submit a written report to the National Defence Parliamentary Committee on the implementation of the oversight obligation. Secondly, we propose that citizens be able to obtain information about the costs of organising the summit. This obligation is to be exercised by the Minister of National Defence, who will publish on the website a summary statement of costs broken down by category, as well as scans of accounts documenting the costs incurred in connection with the summit. This objective is aimed at adding a new article. 3. Both solutions are designed to strengthen citizens' confidence in the integrity of the state institutions involved in the organisation of the summit. After taking into account the changes proposed by us, the last one in the draft Art. 3 shall be designated as Article. 5. Mr. Marshal, I'm making amendments on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ministers! The 25th North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit will take place on 8 and 9 July this year. in Warsaw. This means that the heads of state and government of 28 member states of organizations, members of public delegations and accredited journalists will come to Poland. The decision to organise this project in Warsaw was made in 2014 at the New Port Summit in Wales. In order to ensure the smooth preparation of this project and the safety of its participants, a special law has been drawn up which excludes the award of public contracts related to the organisation of the NATO Summit in Warsaw from the provisions of the Public Procurement Law while maintaining the basic standards of the award of public contracts. It's about supply, service and construction contracts. The principle of transparency resulting from public procurement rules allows for the information and tender documentation to be read by its participants and other persons. However, due to the rank and nature of the NATO summit meeting, disclosure of information related to its organisation could endanger the security of Poland and its participating countries. Therefore, public procurement rules will not apply to the preparation of this project. It was assumed that when awarding public contracts related to the organisation of the NATO Summit in Warsaw, the contracting authority shall publish a contract award notice on the website of the Public Information Bulletin, conduct the proceedings in a transparent manner and ensure equal treatment of entities interested in the performance of the contract, taking into account circumstances which may affect its award. Information relating to an order which is an undertaking's secret shall not be made available if the entity concerned for the performance of the order no later than before the conclusion of the contract for the performance of that contract has indicated that it cannot be made available. The contract award information shall be entered immediately on the BIP page, stating the name of the company or the name of the entity with which it has concluded the contract performance contract or the fact that the contract has not been awarded. According to the draft law, the contracting authority may restrict access to information related to the procurement procedure if justified by security reasons. The Act should enter into force on the day following the date of publication in the Official Journal and should apply until 15 July 2016. The Polish People's Party takes into account the importance of the organisation and the seriousness of the event, which is the NATO summit in Warsaw, and will therefore vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Seven Members joined the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please, Mr Marek Grunkled, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of Defence on the compatibility of the draft law with European Union law in the context of Public Procurement Law. That's what I was talking about. First of all, Mr Konrad Szymański, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, presented his doubts in an opinion accompanying the draft law of 9 March this year. He pointed to the directives which that law infringes and stressed that the law, by its general wording, did not meet the exemptions permitted by those directives. In this connection, Minister, I have to ask you: What will be the consequences of the infringement of EU law and who will be responsible for this? That's the first thing. The second thing is, what has MON been doing for the last four months, since now he has to break the law again to prepare the NATO summit? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u47	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u48	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Help! This law is such a cry: save, approve the abolition of the Public Procurement Law to organize the NATO Summit in Poland, otherwise we will not be able to organize it, we will not be able to order catering. Such a justification, Minister, should be included in this bill. Why didn't you tell the truth in the explanatory statement that you haven't done anything about it in the last four months? For the last four months, you've been investigating the Armed Forces, the Smolensk Commission, the reactivation, the criticism of the United States. We learned that on 10 April 2010 there was a terrorist attack, not to mention that the Ministry of National Defence is investigating the effects of electromagnetic radiation on Poles. That's what the Minister said. When I listen to the Minister, sometimes I feel like he's a victim... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u49	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u50	...the effects of such radiation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u51	Ms Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The preparation and smooth running of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit is a great challenge and a great deal of work. For many days and probably weeks the attention of the world public will be focused on the activities of the Polish government, mainly the Ministry of National Defence and Foreign Affairs. It is therefore understandable that we are proceeding with this bill today, since, unfortunately, earlier, the government had not prepared anything in this matter. I ask the Minister to present to the High House the estimated cost of organising the summit, taking into account the division into the most important tasks. Please also indicate the increase in employment in public units and the time during which this increase will continue. Citizens ask and have the right to know about the planned extra expenditure from the state budget, even though the way in which it is implemented ex lege will be unique. To conclude, I would like to ask: How does the government plan to present the cost of its organisation after the summit has been completed? And one more sentence to one of the previous Members. We live in Poland, in a free country, not in some country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a theoretical state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u53	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u54	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Minister, coffee on the bench. Please say: What is the value of these contracts that will be carried out outside public procurement procedures? Please specify: What will the money be spent on? Does it concern only contracts covered by the obligation of secrecy, those which are excluded under Article. Section 4 (5) of the Public Procurement Law? If so, what's the point of this bill anyway? It is also important to ask, on this occasion, when the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March will be announced, because today not only the public opinion in Poland is waiting for this question, but also the public opinion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a democratic world...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u56	...including NATO members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u57	Mr Skurkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll be honest with you, I'm wiping my eyes and ears out of wonder when I hear my predecessors from the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, you had 14 months to the parliamentary elections since the NATO Summit in September, when it was decided that the 25th summit of the North Atlantic Pact would be held in Poland, and you did nothing to bring about a happy end to the preparation in this matter. Therefore, Minister, please give a detailed answer to the question: At what stage were preparations made by the Ministry of National Defence, the Polish government, preparations for the North Atlantic Pact summit in Warsaw? Is it true that the state, coming to the Ministry of National Defence, found this situation, that it was not even made or signed a contract, for it was not even made a reservation of the facility for the summit of the Pact. [[♪ The bell ♪]] North Atlantic in Warsaw? Are these reports true? And, Minister, one more...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u60	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jach, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Even in the previous term of office, in September, when the government submitted a report on the preparations for the NATO Summit to the National Defence Committee, it looked really bad. Therefore, I have questions for the Minister. It is known that the majority of contracts related to this tender exceed the amounts which order the proceedings under the Public Procurement Law. Minister, is it true that the catering to the NATO summit exceeds the amount that requires tendering? Minister, I have another question: before the transfer of power, has the previous government started one tender for the preparation of the NATO Summit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, will now take the floor and ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in the Republic of Poland, Warsaw, is an extremely important event not only for Poland, but also for all NATO countries and for security. Minister, I wanted to ask you: At what stage have the previous government, the Civic Platform and the PSL been preparing for this extremely important bill? What has been the preparation of the previous government for the summit so far? I also have a question: What is the risk of not adopting the bill? What the consequences will be, among others. For the safety of our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u65	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I hope that Mrs Gądek's words will be presented at every CODE march, not only on the one in which you participate, because it is worth sculpting them with golden reports: We live in a free country. [[Applause]] Madam, yes, I agree with you, we live in a free country. I'm glad you can see that, and I hope your CODE allies will remember that. Now let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping that we had such an emotional discussion at the committee meeting - where we showed the mistakes that the predecessors had made, where we pointed out the needs - and that this discussion would end at this stage. But we see here, in the Seym, there are those who want to make a total opposition. I respect you very much, Mr. Marshal, but I was surprised to hear what you were saying, because you acknowledge the strategy: The worse it is for Poland, the better it is for the Civic Platform. Let this summit fail, let Poland compromise... [[No.]] ...more: we did everything we could to make sure the summit didn't work because we knew we wouldn't have power... [[Applause]] [[Coffee on the bench. How much for what?]] ...and we did everything we could to make the new government compromise. I'm terrified of what you're saying, because outside the Civic Platform club, it seems like we all see the importance of this event here. This is not the summit of law and justice. This is the NATO summit, which takes place in Warsaw, in the capital of the Republic of Poland. It's gonna be about all of us. All Poles later will either be the beneficiaries of this success, or they will be ashamed of failure. And you're doing everything you can to make this case fail. [[Don't lie to me. Don't lie to me. Don't lie to me.]] It is clear that the total opposition announced by your President is being implemented. And thank you to the representatives of the other clubs. I would like to thank the representatives of Kukiz15, PSL, but thank you also for the Modern one, because it shows that within this opposition, which is today, there are some representatives who do not want to, are immune to arguments. They've been trying to put away their responsibility for what they've been doing in the last few months and over the past few years. However, there are those who disagree with us in many things, but see the seriousness of the matter and are not immune to arguments. I also thank you for the amendments, such as those concerning the Central Anti-corruption Office. There is no obstacle to the Central Bureau of Corruption, since we are introducing a special procedure, to deal with this matter in a particular way. [[In corrigendum mode...]] Just as some of the servants are doing today. As already today, the Military Gendarmery as an observer participates in these proceedings. And it is clear that, due to the new procedure, we need to safeguard ourselves with new quality. But the point is that we should not seek division in matters that we should have in common, because there is no division, Mr... If you want, I can tell you what the situation was like. [[Go ahead. Go ahead.]] We all know how long the public procurement procedure is under the rules in force. You left the Ministry without any tender, without any preparation for the NATO Summit in Warsaw, even though you knew for months that this summit would be. And you today - and you are a lawyer, and I respect your professional work - are you talking about the important interests of state security? Then answer me the question: How can one define the rental of 100 or 200 buses as an important interest in state security? [[Applause]] Do you want us to compromise ourselves with the European Commission later? How can you buy several thousand dinners - they have to be purchased because there will be several thousand guests - define as an important interest in state security? These are procedures that should have been implemented and implemented in a normal country a year ago. We know that even if we started on 16 October in good faith - which we are all aware of is not feasible - there was a risk of additional inquiries, appeals and there was a risk that if we were going through a normal procurement procedure, we would know at the last moment, in May or June, that certain orders were not delivered. All you have to do is get one piece out there. Let's say that 95% These orders will come in the correct way, but it is enough that one will be completed... Perhaps because someone, not only the Civic Platform, but perhaps someone from countries that are not our allies, will want to thwart us and introduce the actors who will protest later. It's a risk. If you had prepared this earlier, this procedure could have been implemented. If you are still talking about the important interests of state security - this is also a procedure that requires some preparation, justification, if we want to defend ourselves against the European Commission. That is why we would definitely prefer to follow a normal procedure that neither raises nor raises doubts about the European Commission. We just don't have a choice because you put us in a situation like this. Even if elementary decency requires that we keep quiet today, not say, "We will be against these solutions." Because Mr. Marshal, presenting such a position, de facto puts out a vote of distrust towards his predecessors from the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[You.]] You are voting against your national defence minister, who has decided that NATO will no longer prepare this summit. What are the consequences? The consequences have already been drawn by the voters in October of the previous year. Perhaps there will be others, but to your colleagues who have done nothing to prepare such an important event. I can give you a number of other examples of such contracts that need to be carried out, and which are at risk that in a normal procurement procedure... Because even the specification of the essential terms of the order was not prepared, and this, as you know, also lasts for weeks. Simple orders, e.g. for elements of electronic equipment which are not related to state security - this requires preparation, has not been done. TV service - what is the interest of state security? Either we have to go into bidding mode or we'll find there'll be no TV service for this summit. This shows that there are specific purchases that need to be made, and without the consent of all of you, we will not do so. I therefore appeal: the NATO summit in Warsaw and the effects of this summit will benefit all of us - for Mr Marshal, for the voters of the Civic Platform, Law and Justice, Modernity and any other group. Let's not share. Let us not say that the organisation of this summit cannot be implemented, that President Obama will not come, that there is a problem with the Constitutional Tribunal. There are things between us. But this summit should bring us all together. Because we will all be the beneficiaries of this summit's success, and we will all suffer the consequences if this summit fails. Therefore, once again, I thank all those who have declared their willingness to talk and I appeal to the Civic Platform: Let us forget whose fault it was when it came to not preparing this summit. Let's bow down to this summit. the success of all of us. Also the success of previous governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u67	Thank you very much. In the mode of correcting Mrs Lydia Gądek. Member: 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You didn't listen, unfortunately, to my very specific and calm questions. Words about a theoretical state haven't come out of my mouth. On the contrary, I emphasized just that we live in our beloved homeland - Poland. I don't really understand why you call me... Did the servants notice the marchers wrongly, and I was assigned this? I don't know which CODE march you saw me on telling you that our homeland is a mess or that it's a theoretical state. If that was the case, I ask for information, because I have not yet been on any march, but, I see, the Minister has mobilized me to start going on it. I have asked concrete, peaceful questions, stressing the role of the summit and that we must all build our strength to really present this summit to our homeland in the best possible way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You haven't answered me a single question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u69	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u70	You only accused me of political manipulation. Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Grabarczyk is now being corrected. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In corrigendum, because the Minister misunderstood my statement. I paid my full attention to preparing the NATO Summit and therefore appealed to publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March this year to take the oath away from the judges who were elected in accordance with the Constitution. I also asked whether this opinion of the Minister of Foreign Spauls was known, which raises questions about the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Defence. The government has a problem with the Minister of Foreign Affairs: and this is the proposal to the Venice Commission, and this points out that the proposed solutions are contrary to the directives. I was expecting answers to questions about how much money we wanted to spend in this extraordinary mode. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to what, and to these questions, I have not received an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. The committee rapporteur, Mr Michał Jach, will now speak. The Minister still has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u74	The Minister spoke to the Members of the Civic Platform and the Members of the Civic Platform spoke. The worse for Poland, the better for the Civic Platform. [[It's a lie.]] Minister, we are acting in a state of greater necessity, which has been committed by the governments of the Civic Platform. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Calm down.]] We estimate that there will be no consequences for the European Commission for the adoption of this law. [[What are you saying?]] On the other hand, if, as you wish, this summit had not been achieved or if it had failed for organisational reasons as well... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: But we wanted him to be, we organized him.]] ...the consequences for Poland would be much greater. So, as a lawyer, you know very well that sometimes you act on higher necessity, you have to weigh various things. [[How much for what?]] As far as amounts are concerned, because I did not really explain this issue, I am sorry, this is about PLN 155 million for the organisation of the summit. These are approximate estimates. Nothing stands in the way - it is also to the Modern position - to publish these expenses after the summit to pass on the expenses, which companies received orders. More in the mode of access to public information, of course, to an extent that does not concern classified issues, in any case it would be accessible to each of you, so we are not afraid to present this material to all of you later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a minute of technical recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 34 hrs. 13 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and the Administration of Mariusz Błaszczak. Before we proceed to the vote, Mr Marek Wójcik made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm filing for a five-minute break. Today we have presented a document to the Prime Minister, which makes it clear that on 12 January it was clear that there were no illegal wiretappings applied to 80 journalists. It was the police chief who gave this kind of information. Today, the situation requires the Prime Minister to inform the public why the ministers of your government continued to repeat false information about 80 wirets for a month. Today, even before the vote on the vote of distrust towards Minister Mariusz Błaszczak, the situation requires that the Minister settles why the ministers, his colleagues from the government, but also the members of the governing club did not give information that there was no illegal surveillance of journalists. Minister, from a letter signed by the Insp. It is clear from Maja that already on January 12 it was known that the information about 80 illegally established bugs had not been confirmed. The public is demanding clarification on this matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's not about the subject.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u77	Thank you. The motion submitted, I understand, is a formal request for an adjournment. Mr Marek Suski is speaking with the opposite voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a request against the request made by the Civic Platform. Well, I can tell you that during the meeting of the Committee on Special Services, we received information about dozens of wiretappings applied to journalists. [[Legal or illegal?]] They were there and legal, and illegal wiretapping, ladies and gentlemen. [[It wasn't illegal. It's a lie.]] And when it comes to details, I can't talk about it because it's classified information, so please don't mislead the public. The wiretap was there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u79	High Seym! I will put the request for a recess to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 172 votes against - 259, 8 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. 177 Members voted against - 239, 27 Members abstained. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] I state that, in the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mariusz Błaszczak. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Democracy! Democracy!]] [[Dictatorship! Dictatorship!]] Thank you. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 40 hours 13 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Tax Administration Act and some other laws (prints No 312 and 329). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, March 15th, there was a meeting of the Justice Committee, which worked on a project in print no. 312 with a fairly long, grateful name. There was no greater comment on the project because it is a law, it can be said, a technical act which postpones the entry into force of a major part of the provisions of this law, which results from the unpreparedness and testing of yet a system which would introduce electronic accounting procedures. In addition to legislative changes, the committee has not made more comments, and therefore, on behalf of the committee, I ask you to give the run to the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u81	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws. We support the changes that have been made during the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. This amendment includes the amendment of several laws, in particular to postpone the date of entry into force of the Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws. It argues that additional time is needed to implement the ICT system. We understand that there was too little time to prepare thoroughly for the use of this system. As the proposals are formalised, we also accept the argument that the necessary training and training needs to be completed. The project is well-founded. By acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further legislative work on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law, which I must say again, causes great controversy despite modest content. In the context of the implementation of a law aimed at delaying the entry into force of the electronic system, errors which occurred after the entry into force of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office are repaired in perpetual accounting proceedings. This shows that it was prepared unfortunately carelessly. The draft law in question violates the rules of the regulation on the principles of correct legislation. It contains provisions which are neither substantively nor functionally linked to each other. The rapporteur, of course, did not mention this, but as a result of the comments made by the Legal Office's lawyers, as well as by the Members of the Civic Platform, a long discussion took place at the committee meeting. However, it was only because of the stubbornness of the Members of the Law and Justice who were immune to the rational arguments put forward at the time. The provisions covered by this draft law should constitute two separate subjects of regulation, i.e. they should be covered by two different laws. Unfortunately, for unknown reasons, the Law and Justice have taken the view that, despite violations of the principles of correct legislation, this law should be adopted. To conclude, I would just like to point out that there are no substantive objections to the provisions covered by this project itself, but critically refer to the way in which this draft law is prepared and processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. I don't see your MP. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to state my position on the bill. Firstly, the amendments resulting from the submission imply a shift in the entry into force of the provisions on the electronic system, in particular as regards the perpetual accounting procedure. It is important that the ICT system in place works not only properly but also safely. However, the question arises as to why the government, the competent minister, does not continuously monitor the progress of work on such important key issues and only on the eve of the entry into force of the rules in an emergency mode are amendments proposed to the parliamentary submission. This only shows the mess and incompetence of the rulers. On the other hand, changes concerning the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office introduce in individual laws covered by this amendment a supplement to the Bad Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Hence, these changes are difficult to support. Taking the above into account and bearing in mind that the Act introduces the necessary amendments to the time limit for the introduction of the electronic system, but also indicating that the bad changes introduced by the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot be maintained, the Posel Club Modern abstentions on this submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. Our club is forced to support this project, but it does so only for the benefit of the state. On the other hand, I would like to express our sincere concern about the method of proceding. There are two reasons. First of all, this project was hidden as if it were the second bottom. The second bottom is an attempt to correct the legislative errors that were made at the time of the adoption of the Act on the Prosecutor's Office. This can't be right. The law created on the knee is not a good law, it causes an increased amount of work, which is what we need to do right now - to improve Some mistakes. They need to be corrected, it's obvious, but the right situation is only if you don't make those mistakes at all. And they may not be done if the legislative process is carried out calmly. The second basic thing here, which is what it is really all about, is that the deadline for introducing a new electronic application system is postponed. Since the system collapsed - as notaries tell me, after half an hour of the system's operation, when they connected, there was a complete failure of the system - it means, however, that it should be considered here whether the entity who has been instructed to prepare the system has also been legally secured responsibility for the fact that we all now have to bear the consequences by extending the entire operation and delaying the entry into force of the changes that are needed. The computerization of this system is undisputed and there are no illusions about it here. Therefore, Kukiz15 will support this project. Just as I'm saying, we wanted to express that, first of all, it wasn't appropriate to proceed with the D.A.'s law, which is why these mistakes are there. But they have to be fixed. And the second point - it is bad that the deadline for the electronic application system to enter into force is extended, but if the contractor has not made it in time, we must extend it. However, we sincerely hope that a proper audit of this contract will be carried out in the Ministry and that, if there are legal possibilities, it will nevertheless be appropriate compensation for the Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will refer to the draft law in print No 312. The club's position is primarily based on those arguments which were expressed in the position of the National Council of Notaries, which clearly determines the degree of implementation of the system and which indicates that in this state of progress it is not possible for the system to achieve full efficiency. Therefore, we will not be opposed to the consequences of this system in order to be free of concern and to counteract the consequences of the misuse of the system. And here we are. an equally critical position when it comes to how this system is implemented. As I said in my first speech at first reading, this is another IT system that is not implemented on time in our country. I think it should also cause some reflection. But in order to counteract the negative effects of the lack of a system, we will agree to the provisions contained in the project and support the proposed regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u91	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jak, will now speak. No, thank you very much. Did the draftsman of the committee... On behalf of the applicants, Mr Marek Ast. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, above all, refer to the doubts raised in the speeches of the representatives of the clubs connected with the procedure of proceding this project, I would like to say that, as far as the draft law is concerned, it seems to me that its proceding during the first reading and during the work of the committee was model. For this I would like to thank, first of all, for understanding for the need to amend the Code of Civil Procedure Act in connection with the implementation of this electronic system in the proceedings of perpetual accounting. At the same time, with regard to other laws that have been amended by the way, I would like to say that there was a compromise here too. We deleted the art from the project. 6, also in connection with the opposition's suggestion that this project is going too far. So I think that during the legislative work, a report has been drawn up that can be acceptable to all clubs. Yes, thank you very much. Of course, I also request that this project be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u93	Thank you very much, sir. The committee rapporteur, Mr Waldemar Buda, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this discussion. Of course, these arguments confirm all the doubts raised at the committee's meeting, but in fact the opposition is in favour of such a project so that the entry into force of these rules is not subject to the risk of not functioning in practice. That is why we thank you very much for the questions and for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u95	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering (Prints No 291 and 316). I ask Mr Waldemar Andzel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, I have the honour to present the Senate's draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering, prints 291 and 316, which provides for changes in the care of Poles and Poles residing outside the country and regulates its financing. According to the draft law, the care of the Senate of Polonia and Poles abroad will be carried out through cooperation with NGOs and entities mentioned in the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 laws. Cooperation will consist in commissioning public tasks financed from part of the state budget concerning the Senate Office. The execution of public tasks may take the form of entrusting the performance of public tasks with grants to finance their implementation or to support the execution of public tasks, together with grants to finance their implementation. The draft law - at the request of the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, contained in the letter sent after the first reading - also provides for an extension of the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the revised Act of the catalogue of public tasks on tasks in the field of veterans and veterans affected within the meaning of the Act on Veterans of Activities outside the State. This change was previously signalled to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy by the Ombudsman and the Minister of Justice. Regulation in the draft law on the care of the Senate of Polonia and Poles abroad will meet the requirement of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1 the Constitution according to which public funds are collected and spent in the manner set On the other hand, the performance of the tasks related to the promotion of Polonia corresponds to those expressed in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 the principle of helping Poles living abroad to preserve their relationship with their national cultural heritage. The necessity to introduce the law on public benefit activities and on volunteering of these regulations is due to the fact that the Senate has played a leading role in the care of Polonia and Poles living outside the country from the beginning of its existence. It was a non-constitutional competence but generally accepted. The Senate's role in this regard was confirmed by the annual reservation in the Budget Act, in the part at the disposal of the Senate Office, of funds intended for the purposes of Polonia. The draft law does not interfere with the provisions which form the basis for cooperation activities with Polonia and Poles abroad undertaken by executive authorities. The project does not in any way affect the existing and future activities of these bodies. The tasks of helping Polish people and Poles abroad will continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft provides for the entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of publication. The financial resources related to the implementation of the proposed law were planned in the 2016 Budget Act of 60 500 000. zł. Between 1991 and 2011 budget laws provided for expenditure on care of Polish and Polish people abroad in a comparable amount in the section concerning the Senate Office. Non-governmental organisations have generally welcomed the proposed changes. The subject matter of the bill remains outside the scope of European Union law. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, the Law and Justice Club made two amendments which were accepted by the majority of the committees. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy advocates the adoption of the above-mentioned draft law as it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u97	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Halina Szydleko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. The Senacki project aims to amend the Act of 24 April 2003. The changes consist in the modification of the entity's law. It is intended to involve cooperation between public authorities and non-governmental organisations. In addition, the Act introduces a record which says that the Senate is to take care of Polonia and Poles abroad. The Senate of the Republic of Poland has always played a leading role in the care of our fellow countrymen outside the country. These are millions of our citizens who, after the war, remained in the East as a result of unfair divisions and borders by foreign powers against our will. Today they expect care, support, assistance - also this financial one, in the field of funding schools, educational and cultural institutions, which will allow them to maintain their national identity, the Polishness they so cherish and miss. We must also remember about this newest emigration: thousands, millions of Poles who went to the west of Europe in search of a job, a better life. This is about 2 million in Germany, over 830 thousand. in the UK, Ireland, other European countries. Their children will already be citizens of these countries. However, we hope that they will come back, and if they remain in the country, we trust that they will be ambassadors of Poland in these countries. That is why it is so important that these immigrants cultivate Polish tradition, so that their children learn the history, culture of Poland, especially their native language. It is also necessary to change the image of our country, pointing to the achievements of Poland and Poles, their contribution to the development of European civilisation. Hence, it is necessary to promote our artists, creators, scientists. This can be served by a greater and more efficient use of Polonia organisations. The purpose of this law is to introduce specific legal regulations that will allow the Senate to carry out these tasks. According to Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland provides assistance to Poles living abroad in preserving their relationship with national cultural heritage. The financial resources for the implementation of this law have been secured by the 2016 Budget Act of 60 500 000. and this protects the needs of this law. The adoption of the law in this form will result in a more optimal, better use of funds for projects related to Polonia and Poles residing outside our country. With this in mind, the Law and Justice Club fully supports this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u99	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the Senate draft law amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. An introduction to the article can be accepted as a good solution in the draft law. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Point 29a of the additional public task, i.e. activities for veterans and veterans injured outside the country. This provision will allow NGOs to provide rational support to veterans in order to improve their life situation. On the other hand, objections are raised in the above-mentioned draft. Act on cooperation between the Senate and non-governmental organisations in the field of care for Polish people and Poles abroad. The proposed legislative initiative proposes the introduction of a normative basis for the Senate's activities in the field of care of Poles living abroad. This is not about unwillingness to cooperate, because cooperation is obvious and necessary. Moreover, the tasks of care for Polish people and Poles abroad fall within the scope of the public tasks referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 and Article 1 Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of this bill. There is concern and uncertainty about the procedure and the granting of grants by the Senate to these organisations. The article will continue to apply. 3 (1) (a) 5 of the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering as follows: The provisions of Chapter 2 of Chapter II shall not apply to the commissioning of tasks in the field of care of Polonia and Poles abroad financed by the State budget in part, which is the responsibility of the Head of the Senate Office. This provision of the Act refers to the award procedure, i.e. entrusting and supporting tasks through open competitions of offers. The senate of these procedures is excluded. And that's the situation that's objectionable. This is a lack of transparency and transparency of procedures and equal treatment of grant applicants. The solutions contained in the project respect the competence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in cooperation with Poles residing abroad, including support for cultural and educational institutions, resulting from the Act on Government Administrations. So I ask: Why must the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs be transferred immediately to the Senate? The Ministry is currently conducting formal and substantive procedures for the proposals of the grant competition. Cooperation with Polonia and Poles abroad in 2016. Why this haste and rapid drafting of legislation that raises concerns and concerns? Why can't the MFA complete the competition procedures launched in 2016? New legal solutions could be prepared and planned to be awarded by the Senate in 2017. Is one of the reasons for the amendment of the 2016 Budget Act and the transfer of appropriations to Part 03: the Senate Office? These are measures of 60 500 000. Evil intended for this purpose. These appropriations have been carried over without legal provisions. The lack of response to these doubts, the re-hurry in the creation of the law and the lack of transparent provisions in the draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering led the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to vote against the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission. Almost since the beginning of its existence after 1989, the Senate of the Republic of Poland has played a leading role in the care of Polonia and Poles residing outside the country. It was a non-constitutional competence but generally and legally accepted. Its origin was pre-war tradition and the fact that only the Senate was elected democratically in the June elections in 1989. Factual confirmation of the significant role played in this regard by the Senate became the annual booking in the Budget Act, in the part at the disposal of the Senate Office, of funds for the purposes of Polonia. The Senate's competence in this area is also derived from its rules of procedure. We do not deny that the care of the Senate over Polonia and Poles abroad should continue to function. Unfortunately, according to the project, the care of the Senate for Polonia and Poles abroad will be carried out through cooperation with non-governmental organisations and entities mentioned in the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 laws. Cooperation will consist in commissioning public tasks financed from part of the state budget concerning the Senate Office. However, following consultation with NGOs, the following conclusions emerge. The main elements of the action related to the amendment of the law should be, firstly, to ensure transparent competition procedures, secondly, to ensure equal access to public funds for all entities entitled to use them, thirdly, to bridge the possibility of possible delays in the transfer of these funds and, fourthly, to enable the Senate's Registry to take over further stages of the competition initiated by the Ministry and to sign contracts for public tasks with entities selected by the Competition Committee sitting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, the bill raises very serious doubts and contains bad solutions related to the financing of these tasks. Firstly, as mentioned earlier by a Member from the Civic Platform, Law and Justice, when adopting the 2016 Budget Act, she reserved resources for activities in this area, in fact, without a legal basis. Secondly, this law does not show how these measures will be distributed by the Senate, what the rules will be, who will be able to apply for them, what procedures will be involved. And thirdly, the question arises as to why tenders are to be withdrawn and the Senate Bureau granted powers to determine the procedure for the procurement of public tasks. While there have been some reservations so far about the transparency of this process, after the amendment of such equal opportunities and competition, there will be no longer any question. Therefore, the Modern will not support this idea because of the lack of fundamental principles of transparency and transparency in the performance of public tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u103	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Krystian Jarubas from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u104	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the Senate bill amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the project, the care of the Senate of Polonia and Poles abroad will be carried out through cooperation with NGOs and entities mentioned in the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 laws. Cooperation will consist in commissioning public tasks financed from part of the state budget concerning the Senate Office. Regulation in the draft law on the care of the Senate of Polonia and Poles abroad will meet the requirement of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1 the Constitution according to which public funds are collected and spent in the manner set It should be reiterated that the performance of the activities related to support for Polonia corresponds to those set out in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 the principle of the Polish Republic's assistance to Poles living abroad in preserving their relationship with national cultural heritage. Care for Poles staying outside the Republic of Poland is the responsibility of Poland towards them. This is not a question of institutional solutions and administrative management of this contact, but of a reliable bond, which is intended to convince every Pole to care and belong to Poland. The draft amendment provides for the delegation of public tasks to non-governmental organisations having real contact with Polonia groups outside the country under the auspices of the Senate. Each competition of this type requires the setting up of a competition committee for the evaluation of tenders and it seems appropriate that these committees should be as broad as possible and created over political divisions. This will reflect the real needs of both sides. Following in the footsteps of the applicants, we should only hope that the proposed changes will allow the right optics for Poles living both in the eastern and western hemisphere of the globe, with proper emphasis on the needs of undoubtedly different ones due to the political, political, worldview and economic conditions that concern Poles living there. In conclusion, the PSL Parliamentary Club supports such solutions, subject to the widest possible formula for the preparation and evaluation of public tasks by the competition committees set up for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members signed up for the questions. The first question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if under the new law it will be possible to act as effectively for the Polish people, especially for Poles in the East, as in the period before the funds for this assistance were transferred to the scope of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Well known to me organisations operating in Vilnius, in Belarus, complained that after this legal change, which took place a few years ago, due to which funds were transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to help Polish people, unfortunately the funds ceased to reach them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] intended to support educational and cultural activities in these social organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years I have been regularly meeting with Poles, especially in the East. I go there a few times a year and talk to them. They say that in recent years they do not feel support from Poland, they do not feel as support as it was a few years ago, they say that it used to be better. It is a project very much expected by them at the moment, which is now here in the Seym. It is good that the Senate will take care of Polonia and Poles. It'll be much better than before, I think. There are many organizations that work for Polonia. They do so by raising funds among their members, most often from the so-called. heart needs. My question is this: How, by what mode and to whom will these organizations be able to address? It's just that I want to expand my activities for the sake of Polonia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who will decide on the allocation of these funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Michalkiewicz will now speak at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the government has not prepared a position on this Senate bill, but as a Ministry we have not raised any objections, on the contrary - we are pleased that the amendment that we have also suggested has been taken into account. I'm talking about changing the 2nd, which adds to the sphere of public benefit activities to veterans and veterans injured within the meaning of the Act on Veterans of Action outside the state. This was introduced at the request of the Ministry of Defence and the Ombudsman above all. The organisations complained that the lack of this record meant that they could not provide effective assistance to veterans. Both the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Defence agreed that combatants and veterans outside the state are two different categories. As regards the change in support of Polish people and Poles living abroad, the change, as you know, is a return to solutions that have functioned for many years. Polonia and Poles abroad got used to the fact that the Senate was taking care of them, the Senate had developed procedures, as well as a lot of experience in providing this assistance, hence the change which the Senate proposed was well received by the Polish community, by NGOs and I think it will serve Poles who are outside the borders. Let me remind you that this change does not exclude the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from assistance. Ministry of Foreign Affairs through consulates supports Polonia and Poles, Ministry of Education supports education, so that there are more forms of cooperation, while surely the Senate has developed its own channels, its own ways of helping. I will also remind you that we are talking about support through organizations, that the Senate will support Polonia and Poles through organizations that operate, are registered in Poland. One of the messengers wondered why Art. 3 (1) (a) 5. This article. 3 (1) (a) 5 has always been in the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering, i.e. since 2003. The Senate, on the basis of this article, had developed ways of announcing the competition and resolving, awarding grants and clearing these grants, and I believe that there is no danger that the Senate will not be able to deal with this. If it's about the rush, I don't think there was a rush. In fact, the funds for this were included in the budget of the State which the Sejm adopted. On the other hand, I will remind you that the Senate's budget is determined by the Senate itself, so it was not the government's activity or the initiative of Members or Senators, it was an initiative of the Senate Chancellery, but of course in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as at the request of many organizations who thought that this task should return to the Senate, to the Senate, that this experience which the Senate has in this regard should be further exploited. So that I will stress once again, despite the lack of official government position, that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy does not object to the report or to the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u111	Thank you very much. The rapporteur, Mr Waldemar Andzel, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here these questions confirmed what I presented, that this law is extremely necessary and expected. She restores the former legal status in which the Senate took care of Polonia and Poles residing outside the country. This is the restoration of what has been, has been functioning. This is very expected by Polonia and Poles living outside the country. I also fully agree with what Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz has presented here. I can also say on behalf of the committee that the bill is extremely necessary and expected. I hope it comes into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u113	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee and of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws (prints 77 and 272). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u114	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Joint Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, to submit a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws contained in print No 77. The draft concerns the harmonisation of procedures for dealing with applications and the procedure for such applications in the Sejm for the waiver of immunity to several entities, including constitutional entities. We are talking about the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman of civil rights, the General Data Protection Officer and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. The Commission met on two dates: on 28 January and 25 February of this year and requests that the draft be adopted. At the stage of the committee's work, a number of amendments were made to the basic, original draft. First of all, it is proposed to harmonise the entity to which the request for waiver of immunity is made. It is proposed that in any case it be the Attorney General, which seems right and tidys up this matter. Additional proposals were also made which give the person concerned the power to comment on the application in the Sejm. This solution should also be very positive because there are standards which already point to this kind of entitlement. In addition, in each of these cases, an absolute majority is envisaged in deciding whether to waive immunity, so it is an increased majority which will give rise to responsible and broad support or not to requests for waiver of immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u115	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Zbonikowski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Sorry, it has changed, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws, print No 77. As has already been said, the proposed law provides for changes in the use of immunity by the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the IPN, the Institute of National Remembrance, as well as in part concerning the amendment of the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator. At this point it is worth pointing out that this amendment refers to laws which operate not only in the Third Republic, but it is worth mentioning that there is a revision of the Law on the Ombudsman - the Act of 15 July 1987, and thus still from the times of the Polish People's Republic. These other laws are the Act on the Supreme Audit Chamber of 1994 or the Act on the Implementation of the 1996 mandate of a Member and a Senator, or the Chief Inspector... on the Protection of Personal Data of 1997, i.e. the Chief Inspector for the Protection of Personal Data. These are indeed laws that, as I said, have been functioning in our legal order for a long time. The legislator, by creating these laws, did not foresee a situation in which persons performing such important public functions, such important public functions, may undertake actions which are actions that violate the order of law and may be pursued as acts that are being prosecuted by public prosecution. Therefore, the decision to amend, the decision which uses the experience which is contained in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, and so in Chapter 2, and even more precisely in Article. 7. This is where the principle was drawn that the motion to be addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm would be a proposal prepared by the Minister of Justice. This amendment removes a very important loophole in the legal order and should not be treated as an amendment addressed only to a single or individual person. In this case, the name of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber appears most often in this context. I repeat once again: the amendment prepared and supported by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is an amendment to remedy the existing legal gaps. This is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote and support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Głogowski will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. I don't see your MP. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to state my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws, and in principle on the print report No 272. The proposed act is intended to harmonise the principles of the waiver of immunity, among others. The Ombudsman, the President of NIK, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, the General Data Protection Officer or the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, but also Members and Senators, introducing transparent, effective and precise standards to improve the conduct in this area. So much for justification. Unfortunately, once again, we are dealing with the so-called legislative bubble. a good change, a law that does not solve any problem, but, on the contrary, creates new ones. First of all, it is not clear what was indicated, among others. The Supreme Bar Council, which, apart from passing the proposal to the Marshal of the Sejm, would be based on the role of the Attorney General. Will he be able to assess the completeness, legality or validity of the application for waiver of immunity and why he should submit applications only in cases of criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecution? It has also been pointed out that there is a doubt that the Attorney General will not seek to block applications which are inconvenient to the executive or legislative authority, thereby restricting the right to court. The proposed rules also do not specify the time limit within which the Attorney General will be required to forward the proposal to the Marshal of the Sejm, nor do they introduce any external control over this process. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the Attorney General is an active politician, a representative of the executive authority, his participation and his role in the proceedings for the waiver of immunity, inter alia. The Ombudsman is in breach of the constitutional principle of independence and independence of the Ombudsman. Secondly, there are fundamental doubts about the lack of proposed regulation, which would indicate a maximum period during which an effective request for waiver of immunity should be dealt with. The lack of minimum and maximum deadlines has a number of legal implications. First of all, it does not protect the interests of both public prosecutors, and thus of the public interest, as well as the private interests, as well as the parties concerned by the request for waiver of immunity. Thirdly, there is also doubt about the possibility of making the file available on request - and here from the law - to the authority responsible for examining the application. The project does not indicate to whom exactly such files would be made available. Such a situation may lead to abuse, especially if the files contain classified information. Fourthly, the bill does not contain a regulation ensuring that applications based on the same legal and factual bases as those for which the Sejm has not agreed to be held liable will be left without giving them a run. The absence of such regulation may lead to duplication of applications and a situation of continued uncertainty of the persons covered by immunity. Due to the limited speaking time, I am unable to present all the contradictions, errors and doubts, and their list, believe me, is very long. Modern Members have tabled 37 amendments during the committee work on this proposal to eliminate all these shortcomings, but none of these amendments have been taken into account. In its omniscience and infallibility, Law and Justice has created another law, which we will probably be witnessing very soon. In this state of affairs, the Modern Posel Club will not support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u119	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk now has the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws contained in prints 77 and 272. The main concerns raised by the club are the actual purpose of this law - detailed regulation of the appeal procedure of the current President of NIK, further extension of the powers of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. This second aspect is of particular concern to both the Supreme Court, the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Bar Council, and probably most of the opposition groups. The involvement of the Minister of Justice in the procedure for the waiver of immunity in the proposed wording of the Act is completely incomprehensible. Or else: it is understandable, but only by accepting arguments and standards of functioning of the state according to the governing party. The draft provides that, with the exception of requests made to Members and Senators, a request for consent to be held criminally liable shall be submitted through the Minister of Justice, i.e. the representative of the Executive Authority. Such a situation can lead directly to violations of the principle of independence of the fundamental constitutional authorities in Poland from other state bodies, because the law does not specify what, apart from passing the application to the Marshal of the Sejm, would have the role of Minister of Justice. Perhaps only by holding back proposals that are inconvenient to the parliamentary majority. We are dealing with a kind of absurdity here, because, on the one hand, the projectors in the explanatory memorandum point to the need to improve the procedure and then increase the number of actors on the procedural path to the Minister of Justice, which certainly does not shorten the procedure. In addition, the PSL Parliamentary Club would like to point out some shortcomings in the drafting of this law, such as: Records indicating that, at the request of the authority competent for the examination of the application, the court or the competent authority before which proceedings are pending against the Ombudsman shall make the file available to the public contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Second doubt - no regulation that would indicate a maximum period during which an application for waiver of immunity should be identified effectively. Since designers are so keen to improve the procedure, they should be included in the statute of time records. Thirdly, the law in many places is contrary to the principles of legislative technology, because it repeats the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, e.g. limitation in criminal proceedings of an act covered by immunity. Moreover, in the opinion of the Polish People's Party, consent to the ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber should be given the special constitutional role in the functioning of the State by qualified majority, which would guarantee greater independence and independence for these institutions. In conclusion, the bill has the merit of a purely political law, because procedurally it has never been with the waiver of immunity problems, it has always been decided by political considerations. This law is probably about securing the subject matter of applications for the waiver of immunity directed in the future against the representatives of the current coalition... of the Sejm majority and, unfortunately, here is a concern, about getting to Mr Kwiatkowski and Mr Bodnar. Of course, you can continue to bully the content itself, but that's not the point. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, this regulation, over which we are proceeding, does not bring anything good, and even has the advantage of harmful regulation. The club therefore does not see the possibility of supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u122	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland on the report of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the work on the draft law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and on certain other laws. It is a law laying down the procedures for the waiver of immunity, the application for the waiver of immunity against the Ombudsman, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the IPN, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, and the minor amendment of the rules on the immunities of Members and Senators. Maybe I can start by saying that, of course, we are aware that this law, its genesis, is due to the need to consider, necessity and willingness to consider a request from the prosecution against the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Of course, we are aware that this request must be dealt with, and Mr NIK has also repeatedly stressed that he would like immunity in this case to be waived and that the court in his case should have the opportunity to comment. I would like to express my satisfaction that at least two aspects have been taken into account during my first reading, i.e. that the person who passes the application to Parliament has been changed to the Minister of Justice to the Attorney General. Even if it is currently the personal unity of these two positions, it seems appropriate that this is the Attorney General, so that the Public Prosecutor's Office is subject to the Public Prosecutor General, not for example. The minister's political office dealt with such requests. I am therefore pleased to note that the applicants have switched the Minister of Justice to the Attorney General, as well as the fact that a provision has been introduced allowing the President of NIK, the Ombudsman, all these entities to appear also before the Sejm, as is the case with Members. The Act does not specify which authority will be competent to address the request as regards the expression of an opinion. We are looking forward to the proposal of a parliamentary majority, whether it is a rule committee or individual sectoral committees in areas that concern these people. In general, it can be said that the law introduces a procedure similar to how to deal with proposals for parliamentarians, i.e. the committee presents an opinion, in the forum, at the meeting of the Sejm, this opinion is presented only, the interested party has the right to speak and the Sejm takes a decision. The Act also introduces minor amendments, as I mentioned, on the examination of proposals concerning parliamentarians, introducing a procedure for correcting and supplementing the proposal. Understanding the need to adopt such solutions, implementing them, the Civic Platform Club will not oppose their adoption. On the other hand, I would like to make two amendments to this law, which, in short, will enable the Ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber to accept mandates for traffic offences. I am aware that during the committee's work it was stressed that the legislators stressed that the Constitution does not provide for the surrender of these people from immunity on their own, but going more towards the spirit of the law rather than the letters of the law, it can be said that there is also no direct prohibition of such a situation. In the previous parliamentary term, Parliament adopted solutions whereby parliamentarians, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, the Chief Data Protection Officer, or the President of the IPN who committed traffic offences can accept a mandate from a police officer or a city guard or pay the so-called. credit mandates without this time-consuming, unnecessary procedure. It seems that these rules are working, as is shown by the fact that Parliament is virtually absent from applications for waiver of immunity, and there have always been dozens of them in previous terms, so it can be assumed that statistics have not changed, just that parliamentarians simply pay mandates, as they have repeatedly stressed that they would like to pay. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I will allow myself to make amendments to you that will make it possible for the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control and the Ombudsman to pay traffic fines for traffic offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u124	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my opinion on the report of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs and of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws. It is worth noting first of all what the amendment concerns, namely the introduction of immunity for the Ombudsman, the limitation period during the duration of that immunity, the requests for authorisation of the Ombudsman to be held liable in cases of criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecution, made through the prosecutor general to the Marshal of the Sejm or the consent to be held liable by the Sejm by an absolute majority of votes. The amendments not only concern the issue of the Ombudsman as a constitutional body, but also concern other representatives of the state's governing bodies, such as the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the General Data Protection Officer, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The need for this regulation was due to the lack of the provisions mentioned so far. Therefore, our club will vote in favour of the proposed position developed by the joint committees. Both regulations, primarily concerning the Ombudsman and the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, are clearly in the right direction, so that, despite the important role of the state of Poland, this responsibility, above all criminal responsibility, for the actions which important government officials have done and are held accountable. So, in summary, our club will support the proposals put forward by the joint committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u125	Thank you very much. Four Members came to the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. He's not here. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a constitution. I know you sometimes have a problem respecting the constitution and publishing judgments of the tribunal. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] On the other hand, I would like to ask you the following question. The Constitution clearly states that the Ombudsman is independent, independent and upholding the freedom of human rights in his activities. Meanwhile, in the process, an active politician was involved in the immunity procedure, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice. Its role in the proposed law is not clarified, i.e. We still don't know what role he's going to perform. Is he just going to accept the envelope and pass the documents to the Marshal of the Sejm, or is he going to judge them substantively, or is he entitled to reject them? What's his role? I would therefore kindly ask you to answer the question, including in writing, how you imagine the role of the Attorney General in this trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u127	Thank you. Ms Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The general view is that those covered by immunity are considered to be above the law because nothing can be done to them, even though they have committed criminal acts. It is believed that procedures are very complicated and work in favour of those covered by immunity. My question is this: Will this law, and to what extent, make the average citizen feel that the person covered by immunity is not above the law and that it is governed by the same law as any other citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u129	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u130	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is this. In their explanatory memorandum to the amendment of this law, the plaintiffs mentioned the positive financial aspect of the implementation of this amendment, but did not give any details of the financial issues concerning the amendment of that law. My question is what costs have been so far associated with the proceedings for the waiver of immunity and how the current amendment will reduce these costs to what extent. If this cannot be stated in absolute figures, I would, although I would ask for this savings and the positive impact of the changes, this amendment on financial issues related to its implementation in percentage terms or to a clearer dimension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u131	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jak, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u132	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and some other laws proposes uniform rules on formal immunity, first, to Members and Senators, second, to the General Data Protection Officer, thirdly to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child and the Ombudsman of civil rights. The draft complements and harmonises the rules on formal immunity for the abovementioned entities in the proceedings in the event of an application for the Sejm's consent to their criminal liability and their consent to their detention or arrest. A rule has also been introduced on the limitation period in criminal proceedings for an act covered by immunity, and in the case of rules relating to the Ombudsman they have been supplemented by regulations describing the institution entitled to immunity by repeating the rules contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The rules set out in the draft were drawn up following the regulations in force in this respect in the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, which were extended to include the procedure for examining the application submitted in formal terms and the question of accepting criminal liability. High Seym! In the opinion of the government, this is a project worthy of support. This project we speak directly and loudly that no one stands above the law, that we are all equal to the law - whether or not someone serves the function described in the Constitution, or whether it is the proverbial ordinary Kowalski. That is why the government will absolutely support this type of action. As far as the amendment tabled by the representative of the Civic Platform is concerned, in my view this is a good direction, the problem is that, according to the people who have consulted this amendment, it is contrary to the constitution according to the lawyers. On the other hand, it is certainly a good idea, and perhaps in the future we should work together to work out even amendments to the basic law to introduce such an idea, because, once again, I would like to emphasise, no one, no public authority can feel that it is above the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u133	Thank you very much. Is the draftsman of the committee... [[Representative of applicants.]] A, representative of the applicants. Please, Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicants, I wanted to comment on the allegations concerning the draft law in print 77. Undoubtedly, High Izbo, there is a need to regulate the so-called. immunity proceedings, because since 1987, i.e. since the Ombudsman's law entered into force, there have been virtually no such provisions. Also earlier laws, the Law on the Supreme Audit Chamber or even the Act on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, do not define a particular alebiqué of proceedings. In this respect, we supplement this, although we supplement it to the slightest extent, because in the parliamentary and senator's law these regulations were as extensive as possible. I want to make it clear that we are applying the old Roman rule: we are not creating the right for a particular person, we are creating the right for the general public. It is such a paraemia: Iura non in singulas personas, sed generaliter constitution. And it's not true, as it's been reported here, that we're specially creating this bill because there's a proceeding to waive the immunity of the President of NIK. Please, High House, the first such submission was already in 2009. It is high time to do it well and complete all those laws concerning those who have immunity, whether constitutional, such as the Ombudsman or the President of the Supreme Auditorium, or those so-called immunity. statutory questions concerning the Ombudsman, the President of the Institute of National Remembrance or the General Data Protection Officer. Why are these requests originally sent to the Attorney General? First of all, it's because these are applications for crimes prosecuted by a public prosecution. And since the Attorney General and the D.A. have the task of prosecuting crimes, it's hard not to let them know. There's no procedure here. Contrary to what PSL club rep said here earlier, these are further powers of the Attorney General... What? Since 1987, it has been. There's no further authority here. The Attorney General will not examine the application formally. It is clearly stated in the provisions of this law that it is the competence of the Marshal of the Sejm. Nor has there been such rules that the Marshal can call for improvements or additions to the proposal. There's a deadline for that now. If the applicant does not complete it within that time limit, such application shall be left undiagnosed. Next case - making the file available to the competent authorities. It's possible. This competent authority of the Sejm will be the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs as regards the waiver of the immunity of Members, it will certainly remain so, but these matters will be, High Izbo, governed by the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. And then we will decide, because there may be several options: either this body may be the Sejm Bureau, or the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee and other substantive committees, e.g. As far as the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber is concerned, it's a state control committee. This case will be dealt with when we change the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. And I'm answering questions. Monika Rosa argued that since the Ombudsman is independent, immunity proceedings against him should not be conducted in such a way that the application goes to the Prosecutor General. The fact that he's independent... many entities are independent. The judges are also independent, and immunity proceedings are taking place against them. Prosecutors shall be independent and may also be applied to them. As for Mr Rafał Wójcikowski's question, whether there will be financial costs, it seems that these financial costs... What can they be in this parliamentary procedure in the work of the committee? If there are applications in any quantity... I don't think there's gonna be any specific financial costs. Unless, of course, this is where the Deputy Minister of Justice will complete my reply, or that's the cost he sees. And I am sure this - I am replying to Mrs Iwona Michalek's question, whether and to what extent this change will contribute to the fact that every citizen will feel that the person who has immunity is not above the law - will improve the procedure, because procedures are, but once again it is not possible to meet such demands here to claim that there must be a time for this procedure. Let us imagine that there is a time in the courts for such proceedings that criminal cases are to continue, I do not know, 18 months or 6 months, civil 9 or 12. There are no such provisions in the criminal procedure or in the civil procedure. So here, to determine these proceedings, when the committee may meet, for example. A few times... The person in respect of whom an application for waiver of immunity is made shall have the right to make an explanation shall have the right to make evidence. And the change is also that it has the right to take the floor at the plenary sitting of the Sejm and to respond to all charges. I believe that this project is worthy of my support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u135	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws (prints No 280 and 319). I would like to ask Mr Lech Sprawka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u136	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Minister, as far as I know, is on his way. I would like to inform the High House that the meeting of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws, print No 280, took place on 10 March 2016. The Joint Committees on Education, Science and Youth and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, following their first reading and consideration of this project, invite the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Commissions pursuant to Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicants, submit the following minority request: 1 delete point 5 and delete Article. 4 and Article 4 5. The scope of the above amendment is primarily the fulfilment of a certain obligation - it is a government project - the President of the Council of Ministers of the Exposé issued on 18 November 2015 concerning inter alia. weekly working time of teachers. In addition, the amendment includes changes to the central register of disciplinary decisions of teachers, which serve inter alia. the implementation of obligations under the Law of 22 December 2015 on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The content of this law is contained in the Journal of the Laws of 2016, item. 65. It is a law which requires the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union to provide information on persons who have lost their right to pursue the occupations related to the education of minors. On its own initiative, a provision was also designed to facilitate the planning and payment of one-off monetary gratification to a teacher who was awarded the honorary title of a professor of education, as well as changes to the extension to all teachers of the requirement of non-punishment for a criminal offence committed intentionally or intentionally by a tax offence, and to the requirement that criminal proceedings for intentional criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecutions or disciplinary proceedings should not take place. In this respect, an amendment is prepared. As I mentioned earlier, the committees considered this project on 10 March and requested the adoption of a draft law, which is an annex to this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u137	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Dobek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws. At the same time, Mr. Marshal, I would like to assure you that my next appearance is not an attempt to occupy the Seym Court. On behalf of the other clubs, I'm sure other representatives will speak out. In presenting the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I would like to point out that there will be no negative references in this opinion to the attached draft in all the areas that the rapporteur has presented. I will not refer further to all content, except for the so-called text. card hours. Well, all the regulations concerning, among others, disciplinary proceedings have been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of National Education and trade unions, but also as a result of consultation with the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, as expressed by his representative during the committee meeting. The same is true of the question of the teacher's salary as a professor of education. They did not raise any controversy at the committee's meeting, and therefore in this respect it is complete, practically all parliamentary clubs' agreement. Controversy at the committee meeting concerned an amendment to the Rule. 42 Teacher Cards. I would like to stress on behalf of the club that this is a change which was announced by Law and Justice during the election campaign, was announced in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. This is a response to multiple postulates that arose after 21 November 2008, when the Seym of the then coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party adopted... And then this change caused a lot of controversy about both the idea and the sense of its introduction, but above all about the quality of legal solutions. I would like to remind you that she introduced, among others. an extraordinary situation, i.e. that the same type of activities: choir care, especially within primary school, the same classes are carried out as if by two categories of teachers. The first one is those who are employed as teachers in the school room for which a penny is specified in the Teacher's Charter, where the hours go beyond the mandatory limits of the paragraph. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 42, they are treated as oversized hours and thus additionally payable. The second category carries out the same type of activities within card hours, which are no longer oversized hours, but are, in short, free hours within a 40-hour working week. It is an even non-constitutional, illegal solution. It's about time we fixed that mistake quickly. This is all the more important because it has introduced in many local governments a tendency to replace teachers working on a teacher's degree in the school room and introduce them to this place. 2 hours of activities carried out by other teachers. It is a pathological solution, it is high time to end it, and the moment is good enough that the release of these hours as card hours for the hours carried out by the teacher employed on the board is one of the elements that can mitigate possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] disadvantages resulting from an increase in the age of school duty. Therefore, the entire Law and Justice Club wholeheartedly supports all the solutions and regulations proposed in the above amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will not refer to disciplinary committees and those points that do not give rise to doubt. It's a good thing the Minister took advantage of the project we left at the Ministry. On the other hand, I will refer to what is important from the point of view of teachers, students and local authorities and what it builds, which should build a school where students have a chance to develop, and this development opportunity is realized in a friendly environment that is conducive to the student. Well, the Minister's words about the fact that you're losing your card hours are either cheating the public, or they're imprecise. In my opinion, and in my opinion, the project presented by you is another project that cheats and creates conflict. Fraud and conflict - that is what is included in this project. Well, you say, or your club, that you're canceling card hours, but at the same committee meeting, in the same project, you say that teachers will continue to carry out the statutory tasks of schools, which means extra hours. Then where's the truth? Are you or are you a club about not having a free teacher's job? And at the same time, you are responsible for the fact that there will be no additional remuneration for teachers for the activities they will carry out as part of their statutory activities, covering themselves with the incentive supplement that is being used today, and so on and so on. According to your words, this incentive supplement, which is PLN 100, PLN 200 or PLN 300, is still to cover the additional hours that the teacher will carry out. So by not raising your salary, by eliminating extra hours, you're gonna have the teacher work. When asked if the teacher would have to work and whether he could be obliged to work more than two hours a week, you answer that it is simply a matter of a school principal who knows the needs of his environment. That's not enough, you're talking about how teachers themselves are willing to work as part of this motivational supplement. In this whole chaos, it's all about the password: we're closing extra hours, and on the other hand, saying: Principals, deal with it down there, solve this conflict at home, because you can commit the teacher to more work. If these hours, which the teacher will make, are to be paid, today there are 23 million, it costs about 1.7 billion, then add these 1.7 billion to the education subsidy and then the local government will be able to pay for these hours. You are deceiving parents and children who will probably not have hours of extracurricular activities since September, because on the one hand, teachers will not be obliged to do these classes, and on the other hand the local government will not have any money, and the director will probably be blind because he will not know how to carry out your instruction, because I imagine that on 2 September you will personally go to those schools where these conflicts or lack of hours, or the failure of the director to assign these hours to teachers will show that you will drive there personally and each principal and each local government will show you what to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, we have 40,000. schools. You can't do this. It's better to leave this record. He joined the Polish education system. He caused...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u141	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u142	...avalanche increase in the number of extracurricular hours...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u143	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u144	...so let the schools work with the student so that it's for...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u145	Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u146	...good student, not for conflict and driving opportunities, Minister, after schools and fires. [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u147	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! And I will traditionally begin: Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! And I'm probably going to put these words a little bit to the young people who, sitting there in the box, hopefully, imagine school a little bit differently, which is less socialistic. Ladies and gentlemen! The Kukiz Club 15 finally sees many problems in the document itself, which is called the Teacher Card, which is an old document and which, I remind you, has been given to us, to all teachers, because apart from being an entrepreneur, I am also a teacher, in times of martial law, so that teachers can support the general's system, sorry, Mr Jaruzelski, because it was not a general. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] The card gives rise to a lot of problems. He doesn't protect good teachers at all. Sometimes it protects pathology. The card is also a problem for local governments. I suspect, I would like - ultimately this is our dream, our club - to introduce the so-called. It's an education voucher. Those kids are gonna know what's going on. The educational bonus is the money that follows the student... [[Pathology.]] ...and that education voucher... [[Voice from the room: They're coming, right now.]] [[There's an education voucher right now.]] ...will be freed from central management. I would also remind you that the grant does not fully cover the expenditure of education. And that's a huge problem for local governments. [[Don't do it. Don't do it. ……]] The subsidy, the subsidy, because there's still a subsidy here. [[There's a difference.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Myths must also be overthrown - I will now return to the project - which concerns the work of the teacher. Unfortunately, these myths are very common in terms of hours. Society very often believes that the teacher only works 18 hours, which is an absolute lie. Of course, no teacher works only 18 hours. The teacher has a 40-hour working mode. Speaking of which, card hours, Minister, of course I agree with the fact that card hours are absolute fiction, they have introduced unnecessary bureaucracy, hours have overlapped and have not been fully implemented. They should therefore be abandoned. 90% The teachers were against the so-called. card hours, and I'm abstracting the situation as to whether or not they've been hurt or not. The next very interesting proposal, to be honest, very beneficial, are disciplinary committees. Although I have personal experience that these committees are, believe me, politicized. I'm not going to mention what kind of party I've been digging into in a case where I've been involved, but the impact of disciplinary committees is not entirely clear to me. Well, it just didn't work in our case. I don't want to bore you because I'd have to name the party and also name the party. Perhaps it would turn out that sitting or listening to me would draw wrong conclusions. Next thing you know, it's a ledger. That's a very good idea. We need to put in a ledger. This register will then be entered from the following year. Then we avoid a situation like one of the scandalous, multiple... or the person who was convicted was admitted to school again. But here's the problem. Please note, however, that there is a presumption of innocence in Poland and the suspension of the teacher also occurs when the application is submitted to the disciplinary board. We don't know if this person is guilty at all. Therefore, we should consider protecting such a teacher, because it is not always that the teacher is guilty, of course, but I am a great supporter of this - I will say it loudly and again young people hear me, and it is good - that teachers should be judged publicly by parents and students in an independent way, apart from the evaluation system, because they are people who perform a profession of special importance - it is possible - and also should be judged completely externally. You can do it. We're public servants. And finally, about the other issues, of course. We agree. Honoring the honorable professor of education - a very good idea. He doesn't give out the budget. It's only 450,000. PLN per year. One last thing, very interesting: ban on the work of teachers who are being punished for intentional crimes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, such a person should never teach young people. But how should this be done? Today we know that the Central Register of Criminals does not fulfil this function. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u149	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Teacher's Card is a document that is, to put it mildly, a highly anachronistic document. Let me remind you that it was created in 1982, which means it is 34 years old, if I count correctly. It is a document that should be amended several times if not liquidation. It is a document designed to protect teachers, and paradoxically it has often been the cause of teachers' dismissals, especially in smaller towns where, due to the Teacher Charter and the minimizing of costs, it was more profitable to liquidate the municipal facility and create an institution run by various associations. We are therefore dealing with a document worth working on for many, many years. Here, to be honest, I have a big grudge against the Civic Platform, which I believe has wasted eight years. During these eight years, she started talking about the Teacher's Charter, but she never managed to achieve it in the end. The Teacher's Charter should be subject to many modifications, for example in relation to the pension that I believe should vary depending on the subject or level of the school. This is, of course, a broad discussion that should be resolved. However, the fact is that we now have a situation in which we have teachers of various subjects burdened with domestic work in different ways. And they all have the same 18-hour penny. The Civic Platform, of course with PSL, could not afford such a brave move to change something in the Teacher's Charter, but did something I would call a prosthetic. For me, these two hours, so-called. card hours were nothing but a certain prosthetic solution. It wasn't touched, for example. Whereas in the case of higher education some changes have already been made to rationalise such a solution. I would like to remind you that there has been a change in the period after which you should take a leave of absence for medical treatment, as well as a doctor who can decide whether the teacher should be given this leave or not. In the case of the Teacher's Charter, no action was taken to modify it in any way. The proposal of Law and Justice is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction. It is a step that, first of all, eliminates a certain fiction, which means that these hours, which were sometimes well used, actually for after-school activities needed by students, although very often they were also used, because they had to, will be eliminated. At the same time, this proposal is in line with the direction in which the modern one would like to act, i.e. it gives more freedom and flexibility to the school's principal. We believe that the school principal should be more in charge of the school and not just manage it on an ongoing basis. So he should decide to a greater extent what classes the students need and do not need. It should motivate teachers more to work with students, not necessarily in terms of the two hours that were within the card hours. Of course, however, we must say that we also see certain risks arising from the elimination of card hours. Above all, this threat is that we can expect different directors and different local governments to interpret the entries that are now included in the Teacher's Charter. It may happen that if the Director is not sufficiently energetic or is not a good manager, he will not be able to motivate his teachers to work with the students within his/her job also outside the 18 hours provided for in the pension. There's a threat like that. We therefore believe that this change should be supported on the one hand, but on the other hand it is very important that an evaluation of the effects of this change be made today. This means that in the perspective of some year, we should see how this change translated into an offer of extracurricular activities for students. Because we have no doubt that in addition to basic school education, one of the major tasks of the school is to develop the passion, the ability of children, as well as helping those children who simply don't do well in the world in school. And this is the task of teachers, which was also carried out within the framework of these card hours. Therefore, on the one hand, we believe that we should support this change, but on the other hand we will expect the Ministry to present the results of this change to us next year, whether or not it reduces the scope of the offer for students in Polish schools. I'm going to propose to the Modern Club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] support for the Teacher Charter Act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u151	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Mr Lech Szbek has tabled amendments to this law. Mr Krystian Jarubas of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Liquidation of the so-called "decommissioning." card hours are one of the most important solutions proposed in the revised Teacher Charter. This is the fulfillment of the promise made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the exposé. Since September 2016, the so-called "freedom" will be abolished. card hours. On the basis of the regulations in force, each teacher in primary school and secondary school must devote 2 hours a week to after-school classes, while the teacher in upper secondary school - 1 hour. After the changes, teachers could conduct extracurricular activities, appropriate to the needs and interests of pupils, as agreed by the school head. At the same time, in connection with the elimination of the obligation to conduct these activities, the current formula provides for a departure from the registration of their dimension. This is a solution that is beneficial for teachers, because it means to relieve them from excessive bureaucratic responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen! Liquidation of the so-called "decommissioning." card hours will not be effective until the end. Reading the expertise prepared by the Sejm Analysis Bureau... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Which one? There were three.]] Now, Minister. ...I had the impression that teachers were getting even worse solutions in the presentation. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Oh, that's yes...]] Yes. In its project, the Ministry of National Education proposed a new article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Teacher cards for card hours. In place of the current provision on an additional 2 hours of elementary school and middle school and 1 hour of upper secondary school, a new provision was introduced, according to which the teacher, in addition to the salary, will carry out other activities and activities resulting from the statutory tasks of the school, including care and education activities taking into account the needs and interests of the students. [[That's what happened for 20 years before the change. When you guys were in charge, too.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Dotty, wait a minute. All within a 40-hour week's work. According to the BAS expert, the elimination of card hours by deleting the above-mentioned wording, i.e. the current Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, it does not have to mean that teachers stop, but it eliminates their mandatory dimension. The school principal has the right to assign additional classes to the teacher. I'm afraid he's gonna use it. Instead of two hours, the teacher can get a job from the principal to work up to 22 hours of caring and upbringing classes. I therefore make an amendment to the hands of the marshal, an amendment to the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (2) as follows: In point 5 of Article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 is replaced by the following: Other activities and activities the types and dimensions of which are defined by the statutes of the school. This is my proposal, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. I'm making an amendment to your Marshal's hand. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Michalak will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u154	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Ombudsman in relation to the draft law amending the Teacher's Charter Act and some other laws, print No 280. Currently, Polish law does not provide for the possibility of interviewing a minor in the procedure of disciplinary responsibility of teachers treating the child subjectively and protecting the child from stigmatisation. Certain legal provisions of disciplinary proceedings are contained only in an implementing act. Since 2011, the Ombudsman has repeatedly asked the Minister of National Education to amend the rules on disciplinary responsibility of teachers. The subject of disciplinary proceedings by teachers was also raised in the speeches of the Ombudsman addressed to the Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Senate Committee on Education, Science and Sport. The Ombudsman also pointed to the lack of provisions to safeguard the child's well-being in disciplinary proceedings in his observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, which are an integral part of the annual information to Parliament on the Ombudsman's activities and in the recommendations addressed to the United Nations Children's Rights Committee in the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the Committee's recommendations of 4 October 2002 submitted in July 2015. With regard to the draft law amending the Teacher Charter Act and certain other laws, it should be pointed out at the outset that the project takes into account a number of observations made by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, introducing a new quality in the disciplinary proceedings of the teachers. The designer clearly recognises the importance of protecting the rights of the child and gives the tools to implement this protection. For these reasons, In principle, the Ombudsman welcomes and welcomes the regulation of the project, which is a new solution and which complements the rules already in force, but introduces them to the level of the law. It should be indicated here, among others.: limitations on the hearing of the minor and on the instruments of his protection, including a hearing only where the evidence of the minor may be relevant to the settlement of the case; the principle of one-off hearing of a minor witness; the presence of a psychologist at the hearing; a hearing of a minor in the absence of the teacher concerned; the presence of a parent, a legal guardian or a social guardian during the hearing of the minor; the introduction of a central register of disciplinary decisions; the obligation for the teacher to submit prior to the communication of information from the central register of disciplinary decisions; the legal possibility of suspending disciplinary proceedings for the duration of a long period of delay preventing disciplinary proceedings or for the duration of criminal proceedings or for a criminal offence, if the proceedings for the same act have already been initiated; the fact that the duration of the three-month period of limitation of disciplinary liability does not begin and the delay of such communication shall be suspended until the date on which the teacher is made available to work in the absence of the teacher in the course of his/her case of absence of formal misconduct; the period of absence of formal misconduct; the period of absence of limitation for the period of the period of limitation of absence of the offence; 6 Act of the Teacher Charter to teachers employed in kindergartens, schools and institutions irrespective of the extent of employment; obligation of the Disciplinary Ombudsman to notify the Ombudsman of the rights of the child of initiation of an investigation against the teacher for an act in breach of the rights and interests of the child; right of the Ombudsman to lodge a complaint against the order of the Disciplinary Ombudsman in respect of the termination of proceedings; power given to the Ombudsman to appeal to the order of the Disciplinary Board of First Instance to refuse to initiate disciplinary proceedings in breach of the rights and interests of the child to appeal to the Disciplinary Board. On the other hand, the Ombudsman's doubts are raised by the lack of legal regulations giving him the power to participate in proceedings before the disciplinary committee of the first and second instances on the rights of the party. On the one hand, the draft law gives the Ombudsman of the rights of the child important procedural powers in disciplinary proceedings against the teachers in matters affecting the rights and interests of the child, such as the notice by the disciplinary officer of the initiation of the investigation, the lodging of a complaint for the termination of the investigation procedure or the complaint of refusal to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and on the other hand deprives the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in matters relating to the infringement of the rights of the child to participate in proceedings before the disciplinary commission of both the first and the second instance. Nor does the proposal give the Ombudsman the opportunity to challenge the decision of the disciplinary commission of the Court of First Instance to appeal to the disciplinary commission and to challenge the final decision of the appeal of the disciplinary panel before the General Court. The dismissal of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child to act before a disciplinary commission is not consistent with his right to act in proceedings pending before a court of law set out in Article. The 10th Act on the Ombudsperson of the Child's Rights, all the more so because he has the right given to the project to bring the abovementioned remedies, and thus to initiate further disciplinary proceedings. For these reasons, the Ombudsman asks that the proposals put forward in this regard be reconsidered, both at the stage of the project and in the previous work in the Sejm. As regards the established rules for the hearing of a minor, the reference to the application of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the assessment of the Ombudsman is, in principle, appropriate. However, it should be pointed out that this particular regulation of the minor's hearing in disciplinary proceedings does not contain all safeguards for the protection of the minor questioned in proceedings relevant to the protection and welfare of minors. In particular, the questioning of a child in suitably adapted rooms providing freedom of expression and sense of security and having appropriate technical equipment, drawing up and reproducing the recording of a minor's interview in addition to reading the contents of a minor's interview, the appointment of a defender of his own motion in a situation where the defendant had no defender in the course of the investigation, which would constitute a genuine guarantee of maintaining the one-off hearing of the child. The Ombudsman also requests that the Ombudsman be explicitly mentioned among the persons referred to in Article. 85x. 1 point 6 of the project, i.e. the right to obtain information from the central register of disciplinary decisions. In addition, the Ombudsman shall request that the information contained in the register of disciplinary decisions be extended to include information on teachers legally punished by the disciplinary penalties referred to in Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 points 1 and 2 - reprimand with warning, dismissal from work - and addition to the circle of persons excluded from the capacity to act as disciplinary officer or member of the formation of the court, from taking part in the examination of the case also for a person in common with him. The possibility to exclude the proposal in the light of doubts as to its impartiality in the Ombudsman's assessment seems insufficient. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u155	Thank you very much. The questions have been answered... [[Still?]] ... 13 ladies and gentlemen of the House. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice was the first to sign up. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland is one of the countries that participated in the creation of the International Labour Organisation and in the tripartite dialogue creating numerous legal acts, numerous conventions of this organisation. The working environment is also the school. International Labour Organisation in its conventions, among others. in the one which Poland has ratified, prohibits forced labour without remuneration. I would like to ask the Minister whether the existing provision in the Act of the Charter of the Rights of the Teacher respects this solution, which we owe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u157	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to refer to a specific, you can say, inconsistencies in the new draft Teacher Charter Act on the powers of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child in respect of disciplinary proceedings. The new regulation states that the Ombudsman is obliged to inform the Ombudsman of the rights of the child of the initiation of an investigation against the teacher of an act which infringes the rights and interests of the child. The Ombudsman shall also have the right to lodge a complaint against the order of the disciplinary officer in respect of whether he or she refuses to initiate disciplinary proceedings or his or her dismissal. However, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child under the new regulation will not have the power to take part in proceedings before [[♪ The bell ♪]] the disciplinary committee of the first and second instances on the rights of the party. I wanted to ask you the reasons for this solution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u159	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u160	...and why this is how you treat a child's attorney and don't listen to his requests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u161	Mrs Lidia Gądek, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u162	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With the amendment of the Teacher Card Act, the version proposed by the PiS Government increases state expenditure. In 2017 less than PLN 1 million extra will cost to conduct disciplinary and explanatory proceedings against teachers. The establishment and maintenance of a central register of disciplinary decisions is more than 100,000. PLN, while congratulations for teachers who received the honorary title of professor of education - about PLN 0.5 million. My question is, where do you plan to get the money for this? Or shifts from other fields or some extra savings in education? In addition to gratification, is the payment of gratification for well-deserved teachers really not possible to make these changes in a much more cost-effective way? And one more question: Why, when you design a procedated amendment, you recall examples of almost all European countries, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even Bulgaria and Romania, and with a wide arch you avoid the casus of Hungary? Is that a coincidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u163	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u164	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It is high time to rebureaucratize Polish education and introduce normality in the process of education and education. The role and position of the teacher should be strengthened, and consideration should be given to how to improve the process of proper teacher training or the organisation of pedagogical supervision. A good teacher who is passionate about his work knows exactly how much time he needs to do well. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: before introducing the so-called. Card hours were conducted in schools of interest or evening classes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u165	Thank you, Member. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u166	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Do you have any idea what percentage of card hours was done in the classrooms? [[That's my question.]] In your opinion, was this legal or not? I am aware, ladies and gentlemen, that what happens at school is decided by the principal. As my colleague Ania Cicholska said, in fact, after-school classes were always in line with the needs and interests of the students. So once again, Minister, I'm asking you to check if you don't have the same knowledge as the percentage, how much savings the municipalities had because of this precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. It concerns a conflict of interest which exists in the event of the liquidation of card hours, because card hours were not the best solution, they were a prosthetic, as someone said here, but at least concreteized certain matters, while at the moment cases will be blurry. As you say, the Director will decide, but the Director is not a completely independent entity, and in the case of financial deficiencies and in the case of insufficient subsidies, which is transferred to local governments for the benefit of pupils, for schools, local authorities will really push for directors to allocate, seek the necessary savings. I am therefore afraid that the victim of this conflict of interest between local governments and their finances and the revision of the changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to the Teacher's Card and the card hours, there will be students. Again, do you not see a conflict of interest between the interests of local governments and the interests of students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u169	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very intrigued by the slogan: we're eliminating bureaucracy. I have a question for the Minister. Is it true what you said at the committee meeting that teachers, if they do extra activities outside the plan, would have to write them down in the classroom log, which means they'll still have to conduct this bureaucracy because, for safety reasons, first of all, the student, this bureaucracy will have to be? Is it true that they will now write it every week, not as it was in the project, as it has been done so far, that they have accounted for these hours once every six months? This system was very flexible. That's one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So from my view, bureaucracy isn't going to disappear, it's going to be fine. Teachers, if they work, if they get the money, they're gonna have to run this bureaucracy anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u171	Thank you very much, Member. The question is now asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the section on disciplinary committees. The current rules governing disciplinary procedures are very, very long-term. I know cases where they last over a year. I would like to ask how long disciplinary action can be shortened and simplified after this amendment has been introduced. That's the first question. And one more thing: Are there any cases that a teacher who is punished with a disciplinary penalty for expulsion from the profession of teacher takes a job in another part of the country, not admitting that he has been punished? Will the central register of disciplinary decisions prevent such conduct? Will the headmaster of the school be obliged to verify the accuracy of the teacher's statement in this central register? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u173	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Member of the Civic Platform has just said that what we propose in the revision of the Teacher Charter Act is fraud and conflict. I would like to ask, then, how can you call what you have proposed to teachers and Polish schools, making changes to the Teacher Card Act, stealing or economic violence? Teachers, ladies and gentlemen, are a professional group that sees and carries out the specific mission entrusted to it: the mission of teaching, education, care. Teachers never counted additional hours devoted to students outside the mandatory working time and did it really with a sense of mission, but the predecessors of Minister Anna Zalewska considered that teachers should be forced to do additional work, in addition without increasing their salary. No professional group has been so humiliated by their department minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I ask the question: Will the law abolish the obligation to work under duress, with accounting, records, etc., and will it re-bureaucratize the work of teachers and Polish school? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u175	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I fully agree with what the Member has just said, but there is some doubt. If the law were simple and obvious, there would be no opposition vote at the moment, which indicates that this can be interpreted differently. Although the record restores the situation before the fatal changes made by the Platform and PSL, at the same time reality has changed around us. It is today that local governments, partially celebrating the law, forced teachers to implement for free in many schools within the framework of the so-called. card-keeping hours. This law is supposed to prevent this from happening, but we are already hearing voices from local governments, especially those who are politically related to POs and PSLs, that they will try to maintain this class. Therefore, it may be worth considering clarifying the rules so that local governments do not have this possibility, that the provisions of the law explicitly prohibit such fatal practices, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because otherwise, the Ministry will be forced to give further interpretations, and the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u178	...clearly declared that she wanted to avoid them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u179	Now the question is asked by Mrs Marzena Machalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u180	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am sorry to hear how representatives of the Civic Platform, including the former Minister, have defended the fatal changes that have been made in the last eight years. Such a change was the card hour, the name of which was adopted, is also a mapping, a reflection of how teachers and educational workers approached it. On the other hand, because we are convinced that this is a good change, that it is expected by teachers, it tries to do a lot of manipulation and scare teachers around this change. I would like to ask, Minister: Is it possible that, under this legal condition, which I am convinced we will accept, it will be possible to force teachers to five, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Six hours free...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u181	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u182	...because this information is being disseminated by local government officials connected with the Civic Platform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u183	The question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A lot has been said today from this speaker about card hours. He very well pointed out that there are already voices that local governments may force teachers to do this in the classroom in the form of additional activities. But nobody paid attention to one thing: that is, the teaching hour is 45 minutes, and the daylight hour is 60 minutes. In fact, the teacher and the principal did not always act in accordance with the letter of the law to meet those 45 minutes and 60 minutes. I'm saying this as a practice. Next thing. There's been a lot of talk here, and the former minister said that Law and Justice wouldn't be re-bureaucratizing. Well, I used the data from the SIO for 2014. These two card hours had to be documented in the so-called. White journals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] During the year, ladies and gentlemen, 1 216 084 journals had to be documented by teachers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u185	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u186	Question: "Is it true that this is how respect for the work of a Polish teacher looked?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u187	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education, Anna Zalewska, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you first of all. To thank you for your work at the committee, at today's sitting, for the second reading, for the very critical comments, but also supporting and recognising the need for such a change, because any discussion about education and any good change in education are important. We are to take care of our children, who are less and less, because they are appalling than demographics, but also about teachers who perform a special function and work in a very special profession. I'm gonna start with what might be less emotional, and it sounded in your questions. The first point concerns the disciplinary committee and the role of the Ombudsman. Indeed, in 1982, the Teacher's Charter stated, announced and effectively implemented disciplinary committees. These committees were set up for a very specific purpose. 1982. I don't think I have to explain the times here at least. And indeed they were so far unnatural principles and so dysfunctional that there were many judgments of the courts, the courts wondered whether the Polish education system had any regulations that could support the teacher, as well as the director, parent and child in certain inappropriate situations. That is why we have actually taken the task of raising the way disciplinary committees work to the level of the 21st century. We have taken all the comments of the trade unions, all the actors, your spokesperson for the rights of the child who was not at all, and now there is, let's say, 90%, because there are still a few issues that do not satisfy the Ombudsman. We agreed that for now we would part with the slogan that we would monitor this to possibly correct it, especially in those areas where we are talking about going beyond the system, because we want to close disciplinary solutions also in the education system, not necessarily going to court. Our parents were very grateful because we did not allow the child to participate in these trials without a parent. At the same time, there were two questions: concerned Mrs Płępek, who said that we had even removed the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, and it is exactly the opposite, which shows the linguistic and substantive dissonance between the content of the text, the content of the bill and the reality, and the concerned voice of one of the Member who wondered where we would get the money. Firstly, the money in the system was, but so written, that actually very often there was a fear of violating the discipline of public finances, and therefore it had to be structured and organized. Not to mention the humiliating situation when a professor of education, the highest level of the teacher's professional promotion, did not function in the act at all, and every day the teacher had to collect money from various types of paragraphs and departments and depending on how much money had been raised, there were so many awards and so many titles were professor of education. I therefore inform the concerned Member that this money is in the budget. We also found in our own 100,000, because it's actually an extra cost, for this record, a central record. It was also a question of whether the director would be able to reach that record. As a rule, the teacher brings such a certificate, and indeed, as the Member of the Kukiza movement said, the suspended teacher will not be able to take up work - this is the result of the directive, from the provisions of the directive - not only in Poland, but throughout the European Union, because it will actually be central records. At the same time, there was a question... No, it's actually all the questions that haven't aroused much emotion. Once again, we make a declaration to the Ombudsman that we have tried to listen to as much of your comments as possible. Together, we will study how committees work in this system, we will try to change it together, so that the child actually is this superior value, absolutely secure, because it is very often a hostage of a real conflict between parents and teachers. I am now moving on to what is emotional, which is emotional, which is also very politically used, as Mrs Szumilas knows best, who participates in the social debate as the person who is at every meeting where I am, takes urgent notes, takes pictures and records. In this regard, I really feel that he is closely following everything we say and can therefore quote. Most of the things I will, of course, confirm, and what you are going to upset, I am going to straighten out. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a nationwide social debate that Europe has not seen. We were praised at an international meeting where education ministers, trade unions met. Attention, for the first time in 6 years, all representative unions have gone, which has also been noticed in the international forum, because before that there was only one trade union. There, among others. in discussions about different education systems, in order to be clear, everyone analyzes their education system, everyone sees how reality changes, how children change, how teachers need to improve, how to take care of the teacher, so that in this information chaos he can teach the child to use these sources of information, but at the same time lead them and be what the teacher should be and usually is: master. When, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing, of course, this is an all-embracing cry to end bureaucracy. Indeed, the previous government has confused, you can say, because these are quotations from debates, imprisoned the education system in bureaucracy not only through its own solutions, when it comes to regulations, interpretations of laws. The Education Act itself proves how this profession is treated, how schools are treated. There's no such law anywhere, so dramaticly written, there isn't. This is also a change, but it will be after a few years when the education system will be changed. At the same time, Minister Shumilas hears the assessment of the education system, including how the card hours were treated, how humiliating they were for teachers. The teachers, of course, listen to the narration of the Member, because the word 'hospitality'... my husband's grandmother said: everyone judges according to one another. Criticism, conflict are bad words, they are not included in the Polish educational system. This is the friendly place where the director, who is the leader and leader, is supposed to meet with others, has therefore certain money, has certain additions to be this leader and organize life at school. At the same time, school is a place where you don't bounce your work card, because you can't write all the events and tasks, emotions and things that are unpredictable in the education system and, above all, in the school. And that is what teachers are willing to do, because it is indeed a special profession, and it is simply necessary to care for and respect teachers. You're empathizing with the wording... you seem to have been an expert, too, which is bad for local government corporations, the Polish City Association. I think local government corporations should avoid political experts as independents. I think that you have been invited to do this, and you also judge this through the prism of 8 years old, very defective solutions concerning Polish education. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about card hours, activities and interests, it is just a few literally numbers. Namely, when it comes to extracurricular activities, is it only 47% was carried out within the framework of card hours, others are other forms, among others. resulting from European projects. At the same time, there is no study, because indeed the institutes have failed to deal with this task, which would indicate the effectiveness of such solutions - free, mandatory. Here I am actually confirming what Mrs Tomaszewska said: it is absolutely out of line with any rigor, rules that concern the remuneration of the worker. In most cases, these were indeed hours that would equal: 37.40%. Attention, they were mostly dedicated to students who were prepared for what they would no longer need to prepare for next year - for a test after the sixth grade. That's what it was focused on. At the same time, they were very dysfunctional by the fact that in order to fit into the rhythm of the teacher's work, because there are many of them, and you have to realize teaching hours, classes were organized at hours. 7:00 a.m., which was particularly severe in the schools where the young people commuted. Therefore, the teacher had to say with humiliation that, yes, he had scheduled classes, but there were no students, and he put zero on the side. Similarly with regard to classes in the afternoon: again in the situation of the schools to which you were commuting, and we have the vast majority, there was no longer a bus that would arrive and bring the children to extracurricular activities. It therefore appears that in a situation where the Director, fully responsible and prepared to manage the school, will carry out the classes in such a way that the classes are dedicated and needed, he will actually use the formula of the incentive supplement. When Mrs Shumilas talks about school, I have the impression that she really needs to be reminded of this school because she confided in us in the education committee that she has been out of school for 15 years now, she has been a parliamentarians for 15 years. Therefore, he does not remember that the school looked much more friendly before the mandatory card hours came into force. In fact, teachers, absolutely unforced, were rewarded with a motivational supplement, the Director's prize, the curator's prize, the gratitude and love of their students, the satisfaction of their parents who spoke about the teacher in their environments and welcomed them on shopping. That's what school was and I hope it will be. Of course, we will monitor what Mrs Lubnauer said, and thank you very much for the wording. We will monitor whether there is an incorrect interpretation of the wording of the article. 42, because, please note, he hasn't changed at all, sounds the same as before the change when the mandatory card time records were introduced. There is also, ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental principle of governance, which is also a fundamental principle of the Ministry of Education when designing legislation: design, implement, monitor, improve. This is fair and we will not insist on incorrect solutions, where you have effectively insisted for 8 years. I want to remind you because I think it has to sound out of the Parliamentary Speaker what the card hours were. This is a substitute for the fact that you wanted to raise the teacher's penny, and that was a compromise - these card hours must have looked completely different. And yet, if you mention it, this is indeed a championship, I will say politely, overinterpretation: 23 million free hours cost 1600 million. That, ma'am, is actually cognitive oxymoron, because either they're free, or they cost 1,600 million. That's how much you owe your teachers a year. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, by responding to individual... Oh, and Mrs Lubnauer. We did open the card. This is the first shift. Imagine that the trade unions are ready to talk about the Teacher's Charter. And as you have rightly said, the Teacher Card is no longer the force that prevents dismissal, because in addition to the liquidation of several thousand schools, in addition to the Citizen Platform and the PSL, we have until today also been designed to fire teachers and more than 40,000 have been released from the Teacher Charter. teachers. I therefore fully agree that it is necessary to discuss the need for relationships, to talk to teachers. They're ready, but it's not a basic issue, and for now. We want after the debate... Because unions participate in this debate, even support the opposition: one of the unions is an expert, which is also quite strange, the Civic Platform during social meetings when they talk about the assassination of education, again abusing social patience, because society is exactly the opposite of assessing changes in education. At the same time, there was a discussion about educational subsidies. This is indeed a longer matter: the subsidy covers, does not cover. I remind you - and I want to live in harmony with local governments, the more I have obligations to local governments, because I myself was the lead authority for 9 years - we want to be partners for the local government, but just like the government, we collect taxes. We split up legally a long time ago, during systemic changes, our tasks and our responsibility. We want it to be harmonious. Therefore, when discussing money, you will now have another bill that effectively seals the various places where the subsidy is fleeing, and you have also paid no attention, which will give local governments, I hope, more than 100 million, if not more, and to the state budget - 25 million. While we're still talking... Here there were really such legitimate concerns as to how the provisions of the Article will be interpreted. 42. Surely there is our declaration that we will be monitoring this, because there have been questions about how there have been abuses of card hours, especially when it comes to skylights. Yes, it is. According to a survey conducted by the Ministry of National Education in 2015, the abuse concerned as much as 43% cases because the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL, I think, gave permission since it did not respond to this kind of abuse. That is why we hope that, first of all, we will eliminate them, monitor them, and watch over all these abuses. Don't worry, there will be no situations Mrs Shumilas has said that there will be some difficulty in interpreting every school. Indeed, directors are leaders, leaders, distinguished individuals. We need to free them a little from local governments to feel this freedom and responsibility for children, but this is obviously a matter of the future and how we will see the role of director. We are also putting this into public debate. Indeed, I hope that, until the Senate discusses, there will still be a moment of reflection on how to avoid recordings, or how to specify a provision that would not allow the use of free classes of teachers in the classroom to really be used again. It seems to be organized, but there has been a lot of discussion today. The Ministry of Education is, of course, open. A few more sentences, but Mr Jarubas is not here. Out of respect for him, knowing that all this will be recorded, I will answer that he has used several statements based on one rather superficial opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office concerning how these card-deleted hours will be treated, Art. 42. I just want to say that the Member resisted, among other things. on data that are incorrect because they are e.g. miswritten from GUS data. I'll stop there. On the other hand, I would like to say that these are not only the promises of law and justice, the exposé of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, but, above all, the need for teachers. And I remind Mrs Shumilas - because also the Civic Platform and the PSL pretended not to see huge trade union protests - that the trade unions also had it written on the banners. Thank you again for the discussion. I hope that when we vote in favour of change, we will make sure that this change is implemented without chaos and that no one in the opposition interferes with the mode of entering these records. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, as corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I see the Minister is trying to make the opposition illegal, but I assure you, that's impossible. First of all, you did not answer the question very precise and simple: Will teachers work additionally as part of their statutory classes, free of charge, or will they not work, which means that there are no extra hours for students? You didn't answer that question, so there's something going on. I wanted to assure you that I am always where something important is happening for education, that I am not an expert in the Union of Polish Cities. I just found out there's a committee, I called, I went, on my own initiative, no one invited me. And I wanted to say to you that my grandmother also said, my grandmother said, "The truth is like oil, always fair, always coming out." Minister, isn't it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your deceptions will also come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u191	Thank you. Did the draftsman of the committee, Mr Lech Sprawka... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was not originally going to perform, but I am addressing Minister Shumilas: What you said... [[How important I am.]] [[Voice from the room: It will straighten again.]] I mean, your voice is important because of the terms you use, and especially in this last part, it was similar in the previous part. Well, Minister, I would theoretically be able to believe in the authenticity of polemics and the basis for such or other statements, if not for two facts. First of all, the Minister has already mentioned this, we are not creating a new record - we are back to the previous one. Here, by the way, Mr Jarubas... I want to remind him that this record we returned to in the mid-1990s was prepared by Minister Łuczak of PSL and was introduced into the Teacher's Charter when PSL and SdRP were in the governing coalition. But, Minister, I would have believed it, and as if I had understood the use of certain terms, if it weren't for the fact that you'd included the daylight hours in this. [[Turn them off if you don't like it.]] This has nothing to do with additional activities, those to respond to the interests and needs of students. It was then that you committed fraud - under the coat of concern for additional activities you introduced this situation. You remember perfectly well that it was a compromise, an attempt to shed tears and get a positive opinion when it comes to local governments... [[But you are the rapporteur, sir.]] ...only because they bear certain costs. These terms, which you have used, are unacceptable and absolutely from the rapporteur's point of view, I believe that this kind of polemic is unworthy both at committee meetings and in the plenary room when it was deceived in 2008. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u193	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems (prints 248 and 326). I ask Mr Andrzej Gawron to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the position of the Committee on Economics and Development regarding the government draft law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, print No 248. The draft law concerns the alignment of national law with European Union law harmonising requirements for products placed on the market in the European Union's single market and results from the need to ensure consistency of Polish regulations on systems for assessing compliance with the European system set out in the new legal framework. The current 2002 law does not contain many fundamental provisions, inter alia. obligations of economic operators, requirements for notified bodies and notifying authorities. As a result, sectoral directives setting out the requirements for each product category cannot be implemented on the basis of it. The new law also introduces certain modifications concerning the functioning of the Polish Accreditation Centre. The scope of the changes required is large enough to require a new law, which is in line with the principles of clear and transparent legislation. The 2002 Law will remain in force, limiting its scope and repealing those provisions which will no longer apply. The primary task of the new regulation is to improve the safety of certain non-food products - before they reach the market, their producers and importers will have to ensure that these products meet certain requirements and do not pose a risk to consumers. Such products will be sold in all European Union countries. The draft law sets out rules for conformity assessment of products, obligations of economic operators, conditions and procedures for accreditation, rules and procedures for authorisation of conformity assessment bodies, tasks of the Polish Accreditation Centre and rules for the functioning of the market surveillance system. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm, began work on the project on 24 February this year, setting up an emergency subcommittee, which met twice, on 25 February and 9 March. During the work on the project, changes were developed which clarified and clarified concepts, definitions, and at the same time systematized and organized the design content. Legislative amendments by representatives of the Legal Office of the Sejm have been taken into account, as well as comments made by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection or the Chief Inspector of Personal Data. Most of the comments made by Members were taken into account during the discussion on the details. There has been controversy over the high restrictiveness of the proposed fines in the draft law, which, as it has been noted, may be too severe for small businesses in their maximum extent. However, the majority of the committees shared the view of the government that the new arrangements for financial penalties in respect of infringements of the rules which are not criminally liable should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. This will strengthen the functioning of the legislation and thus strengthen consumer and environmental protection. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 97. 3. To conclude by discussing the project in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, it should be stressed that the delay in the legislative process may result in difficulties in accessing Polish economic operators to European markets. In view of the swiftest possible entry into force of the proposed law for the application of the EU Directives implemented, one of the amendments introduces a reduction of vacathio legis to 7 days. I would like to stress the deep substantive and substantive level of comments and proposals on amendments to the bill. I would also like to thank all the people and institutions involved in the work of the committee. On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, after first reading and considering the draft law on printing No 248, I request that it be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u195	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Once again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u196	High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The essence of the project is to define the rules and conditions for marketing industrial elections in Poland. This system is based mainly on the harmonisation legislation of the European Union, which aims to implement the principle of freedom of movement of goods and to eliminate barriers to trade, including facilitating trade in goods. We are talking about a project aimed at fully aligning our internal legislation with the package of EU directives that will apply from 20 April this year in the perspective of the new legal framework. The 2002 law, which regulates this area, does not contain many fundamental provisions of the new directives, and therefore a completely new act is necessary, not an amendment of the existing law. The market surveillance system has been in operation in Poland for more than 10 years. This is a period which empowers a critical review of the regulation. I think that this is also called for by greater consumer protection and the environment. Of course, it is also not possible to overlook strongly interested importers, distributors or installers operating on the Polish market for economic turnover. Therefore, as regards the main principles of compliance of the system, it is based on the principle of trust in the manufacturer or the person who places the product or product on the market, as well as on the principle of departure from the formulation of very detailed technical requirements for individual products in the law. It is important and different from the solutions existing in the old law that products are not subject to mandatory verification before they are placed on the market or formally admitted by public authorities, but are subject to conformity assessment, which is carried out by the manufacturer himself, who is doing so under his own responsibility. Depending on the procedure adopted for the evaluation of the product, the external inspection or certification body or the laboratory which is authorised and notified to the European Commission may be required. According to our club, this is a correct approach that facilitates the functioning of economic operators. Products which are subject to mandatory conformity assessment shall be subject to public service checks but after being placed on the market. This is done within a market surveillance system based on random checks, not on continuous, systematic and universal controls. It must be said that this is a process of allowing the European market, not just the Polish market. The main principle of conformity assessment is that the placing on the market of a product in one Member State is equivalent to the introduction or admission of such a product throughout the European market. The expression of Community regulation is the CE marking which is affixed to the product. As regards market surveillance, the aim of the project is to improve the efficiency of the non-food product system and to enable the single functioning of the EU internal market, the pillar of which is the free movement of goods. The last thing I would like to stress is the question of changing the system of penalties. This is the transition from criminal law to administrative law in order to ensure the effectiveness of these actions. It should also be noted that there is a need to maintain certain arrangements in the 2002 Act. The old law will be consistently extinguished with the progress of work in the European Commission. The project is dated 10 February 2015. The public consultation lasted from 16 February 2015 to 17 March 2015. It should be noted that the previous team was not able to properly introduce such important regulations. We understand the complexity of matter and a large area of regulation, but the previous coalition, now the opposition, so sensitive to compliance with EU law, was not able to deal previously with the harmonisation of Polish law with Community law in such an important section of the economy. It is a good thing that the substantive work in the committee of all groups gives the chance that the act will be adopted in a short time. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law and Justice Club fully supports the proposed solution and will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u197	Thank you very much, sir. I now invite Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u198	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you for the opportunity to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the draft law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. From the perspective of our country, the law contains a number of important provisions relating to membership in the European Community. The aim of this project is, firstly, to ensure the competitiveness and innovation of the economy, secondly, to eliminate the risks posed by products sold for health and safety and, third, to remove technical barriers to trade and facilitate trade in goods. Therefore, the objectives set out in the project do not raise any doubts. The need for a new law is due to the need to ensure consistency of Polish regulations with the European system set out in the new legal framework. The 2002 Act does not contain a number of fundamental provisions concerning inter alia. obligations of economic operators, requirements for notified bodies and notifying authorities. Therefore, it is not possible for sectoral directives to be implemented on the basis of it, which are consistent with the new legal framework. Nine such directives will enter into force in 2016, i.e. until then it is necessary to adopt a new law and relevant regulations expressing these more detailed elements of the directives. With regard to market surveillance, the aim of regulation is to improve the effectiveness of non-food systems in Poland, enabling the uniform functioning of the EU internal market, the pillar of which is the free movement of goods. In addition, the proposed law aims to ensure a high level of consumer protection and the environment, which will effectively eliminate unfair economic operators offering dangerous products or not complying with EU rules from the market. It should be noted that the law collects in one place provisions for all participants in the trading of goods. This is aimed at facilitating the application of the rules to businesses and enabling them to be identified in the distribution chain, while clearly indicating their responsibilities and powers. If Polish law is not applied to European Union law, there could be a situation where national conformity assessment bodies cannot be notified to the new sectoral directives. The absence of national notified bodies would result in a lack of possibility for traders to obtain certificates of conformity in Poland. Entrepreneurs would have to check the conformity of products with the requirements in foreign notified bodies, which would increase the costs of testing and cause huge difficulties in placing products on the market both on the Polish and European markets. Furthermore, the lack of adapted market surveillance rules could make it impossible for supervisory authorities and customs authorities to effectively counter the turnover of non-compliant products imported in intra-EU trade or from third countries. Several important amendments were made during the work of the committee for the process of this project, the subcommittee, as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, which clarified the wording of the original project, inter alia. the request of Members to waive the penalty is taken into account when the economic operator provides evidence of the implementation of the supervisory authority's order, which may in future avoid adverse actions for the operation of undertakings. It should be noted that during the committee's work, opinions were presented on the overly restrictive financial penalties contained in the draft, amounting to up to 100,000. zł, which may be too severe for smaller operators. Members of the Civic Platform supported the initiative to reduce penalties for failure to comply with the requirements of the draft law, which would be in the interest of entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the amendments were not accepted by the majority. In view of the substantive comments made during the committee's work and the need to enable the proper implementation of Community law in view of the expiry of the time limits for transposition of the European Union Directives, the Civic Platform Club is in favour of this draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u199	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I will present our position on the Government's draft law on compliance and market surveillance systems. First of all, here's the point. We have another piece of legislation that needs to be created and must be put into practice in Polish legislation, in the Polish legal system, because these are the dispositions of the European Union, and from the point of view of common sense it is another burden on investors, another burden on entrepreneurs, another burden on Polish business, which will have to adapt to the subsequent standards invented by European bureaucrats under the pretext of transparency, security, but it is really about creating further entry barriers that will make it significantly difficult and instead of allowing full competition on the market, and allowing consumers to assess what is good for them, what is bad for them, and by making choices, once again the EU official will decide whether the consumer can buy a given product or not, because he must first meet all kinds of compliance standards, fulfil the certification conditions before being released on the market at all. This excessive bureaucracy, in our opinion, is not conducive to business development. This is no longer about the European Union itself, but about competitiveness at all - this is a broader problem - EU products and EU companies against the global market. Increasing regulation and increasing restrictions, increasing influence of officials on what is happening in business, is not a good idea. Unfortunately, we don't have much influence on this. This is an appeal to the government to fight in the future, however, for such solutions to be applied as little as possible in the EU as possible. And we must, unfortunately, adapt our right to these absurd EU requirements. And that's what's happening. As we have heard here before, as many as nine directives on conformity assessment and supervision will have to enter into force in 2016. There is so much of this that it is not possible to amend the law, as the applicants say here, we need to create a whole new law that will comply with all these EU standards and absurdities that are falling on us, on the shoulders of our entrepreneurs. A new office will be established, which will have new competences, the Polish Accreditation Centre. There will be an increased system of authorisation, notification, certification - all these words adored by officials. They will have to learn them by heart with all these standards, procedures and all the elements of the procedure only to be able to sell their products. And look at how much time Polish entrepreneurs will devote to meeting the standards that we will adopt here, and how much time they will devote to fighting competitively with other entrepreneurs around the world. In this way our myth about innovation, our ambitions for innovation, the development of the economy will drown in the sea of bureaucracy, unfortunately. But this is life, and life in the Union is particularly difficult for the Polish entrepreneur. [[Applause]] And he's gonna have to deal with it, unfortunately. I hope that the Polish entrepreneur, known for being able to bypass all regulations, make himself flexible, adapt, deal with this crowd of new regulations and show, [[Applause]] that we are able to function in any competition, also in such absurd, related to such absurd rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiz Club15 is in favour of introducing the necessary minimum bureaucratic rules and not obscuring ourselves with security, not covering ourselves with EU ideology, just on a good case where it is possible to try to follow these rules, try to cooperate with entrepreneurs as much as possible. Penalties should be as small as possible, restrictions should be as small as possible, and the state should help businesses to meet all the standards that we impose on them, because entrepreneurs pay taxes and without taxes, as we see, the state budget is becoming increasingly difficult. On behalf of the Members' Club, we declare our cooperation on this project and declare that we will not vote against, but, nevertheless, we are once again paying attention to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the adoption of such regulations harms the Polish economy in the long term. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Kobylinski, Member of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are discussing the report on the work of the Committee on Economics and Development on the conformity assessment system. Contrary to appearances, the matter is not trivial and it is not another EU law, which must only be implemented into the Polish legal system. This is because it concerns the safety of products that we all use, but also many - I emphasize - many thousands of small Polish companies, to which every club in this Sejm declared help in the election campaign. Many times, however, we have heard of dangerous toys, magnets that stuck together in children's throats, phthalates, which are very dangerous, overheating kettles, exploding in their hands drills. It's an important subject and you can't ignore it. This is where I have to be very objective. The very fast pace of work did not allow interested representatives of Polish companies to be heard. I refer to what you have said here. I wasn't in the last Sejm, I wasn't involved, but I must say we didn't have time for this. There was no time to consult experts. Despite the very good will of all the participants in the subcommittee in which I worked, despite their really very good will - I say this here absolutely without courtesy, I would also like to thank them here for their cooperation - it was not possible to draw up this law to ensure at the same time a relative level of product safety and compliance of this law with EU law, and at the same time to protect Polish companies. There are many thousands of online shops that also import, and they will also have to adapt to this quite strict law. The level of sanctions laid down in this project is not entirely to the scale of the problem, according to my thinking. On the one hand, punishment can be very severe, because it is up to 100,000. zł, but this is a severity only for smaller companies. 'Cause really, it's 100,000. PLN when we are talking about a big foreign company, which can also introduce a dangerous product to the Polish market or to the EU. 10,000. For lack of instructions, 20,000. for lack of proper CE sticker, 10 years of storing technical documentation, and yet no one knows what it is to look like, because the regulations will be in April and there are 7 days of vacathio legis. It's gonna be hard. Therefore, with regard to these penalties, the Modern Club here makes a series of amendments which reduce potential penalties for entrepreneurs. They are not as reduced as I tried to do in the subcommittee, but I hope that here we can work out a consensus with the ministry, as it actually was in the committee. Thank you very much again for this. Here, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u203	Thank you, sir. Thank you for the correction. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u204	One more thing, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u205	Oh, and the Member, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u206	We are aware that the deadlines are chasing us very much. On the other hand, we make these amendments - here I refer to my previous speaker Rafał Wójcikowski, whom I value very much - because it is important to take care of the interests of Polish companies first of all. The truth is that these giant penalties can be imposed by some Polish companies. And that's where I'd like to end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u207	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u208	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we support the solutions presented in the Government's draft law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. These aren't new things. These aren't new things. The compliance supervision system existed in Poland and was implemented in some way, otherwise it would be difficult to imagine what chaos and mess we would have and what would have been. In contrast, time shows that certain things need to be adapted to market developments, including in the global market. This is important and necessary because the law serves businesses as well as consumers. We are talking about entrepreneurs here all the time, but what is important is primarily the issue of consumers, because it is to them first of all that this law is intended to serve, securing them and giving them the guarantee that the goods they buy, purchase, are safe, is good, is functional, is adapted to the technical conditions that should exist in Europe on the market. It's all about energy, power, security. This applies to the entire turnover on our market, except for food goods, because here we have different specific regulations. This is a very important bill. This has also been worked in previous terms - I think the Minister has also worked - and it is good that today we have the finale of this. We will support these solutions as well as amendments that will better adapt the bill to our Polish and European conditions. It is important that we do not forget entrepreneurs here, but first of all the bill is intended to serve consumers, so that, once again, I stress, it is safe for someone not to push them into some product of unknown origin, which can simply be dangerous to health, even to life, whether adults or children, because it also applies to toys with which children have been dealing since their youngest days. That is why I declare once again, Minister, that we will support these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u209	Thank you very much, sir. Four people signed up for the questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Starzycki, club Law and Justice. There you go, two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill concerns many Polish companies, distributors, importers, installers, those who introduce non-food goods to the Polish market and the European Union market. I therefore have a question for the rapporteur: Why was vacathio legis reduced to 7 days? Don't you need more time to get to know these economic operators about the rules that have been adopted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u211	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Warecha, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed changes should be assessed positively, but I would like to ask you to clarify some of the following points. What will be the new scope of tasks of the converted Polish Centre for Research and Certification and will it continue to carry out certification activities? What impact would it have on the activities of the Polish Centre for Research and Certification to include it in the list of companies of particular importance for the state economy in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Commercialisation and Privatization of State Enterprises? What impact these provisions will have on soft law-related instruments, so-called soft law instruments. soft rights that are created by both international and national NGOs? Does the project provide for a specific advisory role in relation to the Accreditation Board for environmental organisations involved in accreditation and conformity assessment, such as the Main Office of Measures, and in particular the Polish Committee for Standardisation, which have special expertise in this field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u213	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns penalties, which are provided for in the bill, because from the point of view of Polish entrepreneurs these are penalties, first, unfair and second, far too high. In our view, those entrepreneurs who manage to avoid these ridiculous bureaucratic rules should be rewarded by the Minister for creativity and the fight against bureaucracy rather than punishment. Therefore, I ask the Members of the applicants or the Government, because in this case This is a government law, about whether it would be possible to suspend punishment, since vacathio legis is so short, e.g. for a period of 1 year and to introduce these penalties only after a certain period of time, allowing Polish entrepreneurs some real conditions to comply with these provisions and to take some steps. It is easy to punish, but as you know, many entrepreneurs, who receive unfair, unjustified and unfair punishment, were no longer entrepreneurs in the Polish business. Therefore, the question is: Wouldn't the State consider a moratorium on the execution of those penalties which the State intends to impose on Polish entrepreneurs for failing to comply with all the procedures that you wish to adopt for a period of 1 year or 2 years so as to enable Polish entrepreneurs to really fight against competition? Not constantly scare them of new requirements, new laws and penalties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u215	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u216	Dear Marshal! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! 103 pages - there is so much new law that Polish entrepreneurs must learn and study. Punishment - one must punish, best punished, after a million, provided, however, that parliamentarians, as well as entrepreneurs, are punished. When I go to the front page of this law, I can quote you - there are 13 different sub-documents, all equally funny: the European Parliament directive on the safety of toys, my dad taught me, used to play with children's fireworks and there was no safety procedure for the use of a pipe, harmonisation of the market for pyrotechnic articles, the Directive on recreational craft and water scooters repealing the Directive... This is a nightmare, ladies and gentlemen. We've gone into a nightmare of writing. The bureaucrats have a lot of fun, only these bureaucrats keep entrepreneurs. I understand that we have a dream that everything needs to be regulated, but the economy will not develop like this. The 103 pages of the next document will not develop the economy, they will kill it. My question is: How does this apply to the transatlantic trade partnership negotiated by the government? How's this gonna work? 'Cause what's the point of us protecting ourselves here when we get genetically modified foods through the TTIP? Answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u217	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mr Mariusz Haladyj will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, I, too, would like to begin by thanking you for working in committee and subcommittees, because despite such a smooth pace resulting from the deadline for implementing the directive, the work, although intensive, was very constructive and very substantive. And thank you very much for this, too, because, especially in the subcommittee, there was a men's composition, so to speak. I understand we'll be back on the committee tomorrow, so we'll continue this discussion. By responding specifically to your questions. Mr Starzycki asked for a notification and a deadline, it seems... [[Vacatio legis.]] Oh, and vacathio legis, excuse me, yes, vacathio legis. I mean, I don't feel comfortable either because we have a 7-day vacathio legis. Indeed, this is not a time when we would like to see a law that is so important for entrepreneurs and that really requires adaptation, but on the other hand we must put the moment of entry into force of these directives and that Polish entrepreneurs do not lose their position, i.e. they are not pushed out of the market, to put it simply. Because if European legislation enters on 19 April, i.e. when directives should be implemented, then automatically Polish entrepreneurs will not be able to authorize or market their products, then they can automatically lose the market. For this reason, however, we believe that this entry into force should, even though the shorter vacathio legis, simply safeguard the economic or economic interests of entrepreneurs. Answering Mr Warzecha's questions. As far as PCBC is concerned, the PCBC itself is not regulated because PCBC as a company of the Treasury generally does not operate on the basis of the laws, but is listed on the list of companies relevant to the security of the Treasury. So this side of the deal is secured. As far as the accreditation board is concerned, of course, PKN and GUM. Here we agree with this opinion, both institutions under the law will be represented on the accreditation board. Mr Wójcikowski, first of all, asked about the penalties. Let us remember one thing - penalties for entrepreneurs, but on the other hand, we are also talking about the consumer's interest, which is at risk of possible non-compliance. And those punishments must be centered somewhere. In turn, if they are too low, they will not fulfil their function either. That is why a very important institution is introduced, which is the measuring of penalties, and this measuring of penalties is precisely dependent on the degree and circumstances of violation of the law or the number of products placed on the market, or the previous infringement, i.e., by common means, of redecision. If a small entrepreneur... It is well known that the small trader places less of these products on the market, and therefore, by force of nature, penalties will also be lower in relation to smaller businesses. However, let us also bear in mind a very important change which will already take place in the committee itself, for which, as the Ministry of Development, we thank Members: not being able to depart from the penalty, just as it was accepted in the government project, only mandatory, as regards the waiver of the penalty, when - by shortening, in order not to quote the whole formula - the entrepreneur will follow the recommendations of the audit authority, i.e. by adopting an analogy to the criminal tax or criminal rules, if he applies an active regret. And this is, in my opinion, the best institution - including measuring - to avoid knocking the company over. There was also a discussion at the committee meeting - although I did not attend it yesterday, former Minister Emilewicz - there was a discussion, in my opinion very interesting, about the dependence of the penalty on turnover or on the revenues of the company. I will say that I am not some hot opponent of this solution, but we must consider first of all that with a large income and at the same time large costs, the entity can record a loss. If we depend on revenue, then it's natural to say the same thing as the controlling one, but it may be to punish the revenue in such a way that I say it's severe. And if the entity has a large income, but de facto records a loss at the end, paradoxically in such a situation we might even harm such companies, although I say: for me this is an interesting institution, especially since in the legislation about UOKiK or URE these legal solutions are applied. As far as suspension is concerned, which is a kind of moratorium, I can repeat the same thing as I said about restrictiveness, which is that we must remember the interests of the consumer, and at the same time we have institutions that allow these penalties to be severely reduced. Mr Jaskola. On the one hand, of course, it can be said that 103 pages of the Act are another dose of the law for entrepreneurs that they need to learn, but on the other hand, imagine option zero, i.e. that there is no law, there is no law, thanks to which, if I am a manufacturer of the requirements, I will get a CE stamp, I will introduce the product to the Polish domestic market and, having this CE marking, I will get a passport to move with this product, a product throughout the European Union. So this one law implementing the directive de facto is a deregulation act, because the directive prevents, and following the directive our law, the situation of creating barriers for our entrepreneurs at the level of the 27 countries of the European Union, even though, of course, given the paper itself, it can be said that these are 103 pages of the new law, but I say, what is the alternative, the alternative in my opinion is much less favourable than this law, even so extensive. I wouldn't underestimate the issue that safety is regulated, I don't know, like toys. We had some real life situations with the misfortune of the youngest, who actually, using it to say dangerous products, toys, were in health problems, let alone the greater consequences. So this is a bill that's gonna prevent that kind of disaster from happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u219	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on special solutions related to the organization of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 (print No. 332). I ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Beata Kempa to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u220	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the great honour to present today on behalf of the government a draft law, special regulations on the organization of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016, which is included in print no. 332. First of all, I would like to thank the Bureau of the Sejm as a whole, as well as the High House for agreeing to a rather swift and very efficient procedure on the bill submitted, because the decision we have made in connection with the forthcoming event, I think that one of the most important events in our country's history requires special legal conditions, so that these meetings, in the framework of the Holy Father's visit, and in a special way in the context of the meeting with young people of the whole world, are absolutely safe, undisturbed, but also that all these organisational activities which we will take, which are already very detailed, take place in accordance with the legal order in force in our country. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Detailed solutions are provided in print no 332. We also tried very carefully to justify the draft law on every element of it related to the most important issues that followed us during the preparations for World Youth Days and for the visit of the Holy Father. Last week it was outlined by the Vatican and announced by the Organization Committee of World Youth Days in Cracow, as well as by the episcopate in Warsaw a plan for the visit of the Holy Father to Poland. This plan, as pointed out by the Organisation Committee and the Episcopate, is a framework plan, but it is a plan around which we can build security elements, the security of all participants of the World Youth Days, regardless of where they come from, and whatever rank the participants will be. Everyone's important to us and our priority. So today, with this knowledge, it was possible to adapt the provisions of this law also to the elements connected with the program of the Holy Father's stay in our country. The main objective of preparing the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the Holy Father's visit to our country and the World Youth Days in Krakow is above all very efficient and safe - I repeat - the safe conduct of World Youth Days in Poland. It is also, and maybe above all, to ensure a positive image of Poland in the world as a country which will take two and a half million people, as it is estimated, the number of young participants in our country who will also be hosted in dioceses in our country, also during the time before the event, which was defined by the organizational committee, by the Church, but they may also want to stay in our country for a few more days. All these solutions provide for all these eventualities. Despite the complex organisational nature of the event and the significant, as I stressed, the number of participants do not apply the rules on the security of mass events to this event. If we wanted to apply the provisions of the Act which is already in force and which we have, it would turn out that unfortunately there are no religious events there, there is no such category, so it is not possible to apply the provisions of the Act, of course with all its benefits, to such an event. It was therefore necessary to regulate and, as a result, coordinate the organisational activities of the public party, in this case the government. I would also like to start by reminding you that Prime Minister Beata Szydło has set up a task force for: World Youth Day organisations - at this point I also want to thank the whole team for their work so far, although what is most important, ahead of us - but also appointed a representative for the team. World Youth Days, Minister Paweł Majewski. The law we have prepared does not regulate the financing of activities related to World Youth Day, because these expenditures are and will be implemented within the budgets of the relevant ministries and local government units, which were already in the planning stage, then adjustments and very thorough discernment in a detailed manner and could be included in the project and then in the budget law. The main areas covered by the regulation are primarily security and public order. In this respect, we want to provide the organisational committee with, first and foremost, the Minister of Home Affairs and the services subordinate to him, with all the assistance in organising and securing the World Youth Days. We've defined it in an article. 1 point 1 both the entire visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland, i.e. points related to Częstochowa, where celebrations are to take place in connection with the highlight of the anniversary which we are celebrating this year, the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, as well as the visit to Auschwitz-Birkenau, also especially Krakow, or meeting with young people from all over the world, as we called the World Youth Day in a short way. And that's what we decided in the article I mentioned. Security and public order is therefore a priority in this law. The organisational committee shall have a responsibility to prepare a plan for emergency management - this plan should be drawn up by 15 May 2016. - and hand it over to the proper services. I would like to stress to the High House that these activities at the level of the organisational committee, coordinated with the activities of your voivodeship, as well as with the activities of all the services responsible for security, are actually already taking place at the working level, but in order for them to acquire legal formulas and forms, a statutory regime is needed. Therefore, in this area, apart from other solutions, we grant special powers to the police to collect and process data about persons who pose a threat to safety and public order, special powers to the Railway Guard - here we quote, for example. the right to search travellers' luggage. The staffing of the services subordinate to the Home Affairs Minister for the duration of the World Youth Days is increasing, especially in the places of central events. It is also a system for the exchange of information between services responsible for particular security aspects, including: the recognition and continuous monitoring of hazards. Independently of the rules of the specific services, at both national and voivodeship level, teams were set up, working groups on preventive and operational protection of the event referred to today. Such components will be recorded in the Office of Government Protection or in the Małopolska headquarters of the voivodship fire department, etc. The second very important element, not to mention the equivalent, is the issue of medical security. The medical security must be adapted to existing medical and emergency care solutions. It must be adapted to the increased number of possible recipients, which is obvious with this number of pilgrims expected. Then there must be cooperation between public order and rescue services and, of course, an increase in their efficiency. So this bill is intended to serve that purpose. The main events will take place in the Małopolska Voivodship, thus entrusting the Małopolska Voivodeship with specific tasks in this area, among others. establishing a medical security plan, increasing the preparedness of medicinal subjects, organising medical security structures. The Minister for National Defence will be required to support this. The Act allows for increased preparedness and first aid. To this end, we will increase the personnel cast, increase the resources and quantity of medical equipment, and further medical benefits will be provided under individual patient insurance. Public transport. As far as the World Youth Day plan is concerned, the Days in the Dioceses are foreseen in addition to events directly related to the visit. There is therefore a need to increase transport capacity, especially for rail. The regulation of the specialty allows flexible approach and better organisation, e.g. by introducing changes to the timetable of trains related to the increased demand for passenger transport or the entry into service of additional rolling stock and the possibility of temporary construction investments, e.g. construction of the platform. Communication and logistical security arrangements. In this case, we envisage simplifying the procedure for the installation of temporary base stations in the areas of central events related to World Youth Day. The adoption of these solutions will enable telecom operators to provide additional voice and data traffic support and, in particular, the availability of network resources for emergency calls, which is a priority. This will be an extremely important support for work and the cooperation of services in particular, in terms of shortening the response time to an event requiring intervention. As a result, this will also improve the safety of citizens and foreigners on the scene of World Youth Day events. We then provide for the exemption of participants in the World Youth Days for applying for a national visa and Schengen visa from the consular fee for receiving and examining a visa application. At this point, I would like to emphasise very good cooperation with the Organization Committee of World Youth Days, with the Church in this area, because we provide for very good verification of participants. As part of this cooperation, participants from countries who will apply for such a visa will have to have special certificates from the diocesan bishop or representative appointed by such bishop, i.e. from a specific person, a particular clergyman. It is only with such a document that a visa can be applied for. In addition, this visa will be free of charge. We then provide for the exclusion of public procurement rules for World Youth Day contracts, which is obvious because July is behind the belt. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In conclusion, therefore, I would like to say that the act is primarily aimed at coordinating the plans of World Youth Day organisations in case of emergency, coordinating the medical security plan, as well as all other plans necessary to properly secure this meeting. This is also followed by improvements that are friendly to the participants of the World Youth Days, such as the issues mentioned by me concerning exemptions from the consular fee for issuing a national visa, tools to facilitate police work in the field of security in the event of the emergence of people who would pose a potential threat to the participants of the World Youth Day. Fourth, flexible transport connections across the country taking into account the increased demand for both rail and air and road transport. Providing professional and accessible medical protection. This is where we plan outbound teams, flight rescue teams, pedestrian patrols, mobile patrols, permanent medical facilities and hospital tents. Accelerated procedures for public procurement directly related to the organisation of World Youth Days. Mainly enter. Here will be purchases of medical supplies and tools. Providing wide internet access through, among others, the use of e.g. a simplified procedure for the installation of temporary base stations. Preparedness of support by the Minister for National Defence in matters which are unforeseen or not covered by the activities of other actors in matters relating to logistics, transport, communications, medical and sanitary protection. Possibility to continue using purchases related to World Youth Day after the end of the event. Here I want to make it clear and clear that the equipment that will be purchased will be distributed by the Minister of Health to those in need of healthcare. The accelerated notification process for sanitary and epidemiological safety is intended to ensure monitoring and a very rapid response. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to stress that I hope that we will lean on this law, as I said, in a very efficient manner, that all clubs will do so. Once again, I would like to thank the entire Bureau of the Sejm for the adoption and procedure of this law at this session of the Sejm. I would also like to thank from this place all the services that are already constantly and absolutely responsible for preparing, dealing with security plans, taking care of everything so that young people from all over the world can be invited to our country and give one basic message: you are and will be safe in our country. I also want to thank the services for that. All these Members and the senators who would like to contribute to this bill will want to prepare this law together in a very concerted way, because of course we also accept the possibility of a very broad and very efficient discussion of this law, and I would also like to thank you. The adoption of this law is, of all intents and purposes, necessary, but above all, from the point of view of our country's responsibility for the safety of people, all the young people who will come, for this way the promotion of our country's contribution from the High House will be invaluable. So, Your Marshal, please proceed with this bill on the Sejm Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u221	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm declaring a two-minute recess and we're about to proceed to the vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 33 hrs. 17 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution accompanying the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The Ulm families in Markowa. The project is print number 352. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau accompanying the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The families of Ulmów in Markowa (print No 352). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the resolution. The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland accompanying the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The Ulm families in Markowa. On behalf of the Polish National Sejm of the Republic of Poland, he again pays tribute to all his fellow countrymen who risked their lives to save the Jews who were doomed, and especially to those who died at the hands of the German occupier in retaliation for their help. In connection with the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The Ulm family in the Markowa Sejm of the Republic of Poland also praises the local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, which through the construction of a museum of national character first commemorated this extraordinary heroism on such a large scale, realizing the vital interest of the entire society. We hope that the museum in Markowa will inspire the state and local authorities to continue to commemorate the actions done by Poles saving Jews and to promote this knowledge also outside Poland. It is all the more appropriate that the world does not know the realities that prevailed on Polish lands during the tragic years of the war 1939-1945, and historical ignorance with which we meet abroad strikes the good name of our Homeland. German invaders destroyed then the Polish state and culture, murdered the leaders, used terror and committed crimes against the civilian population. Moreover, Jews were completely eliminated from economic life, isolated from society, then locked in ghettos and murdered. At the same time, a tribute to the righteous Poles is a clear reminder to the whole world that unlike occupied Western Europe in Polish lands, even the least of the help of the Jews was threatened by the death penalty. Although war is often demoralizing to all sides of the conflict, representatives of the Polish society witnessed zealous faith, showed mercy and fulfilled Christian commandments. Despite the spectrum of the highest punishment, many Poles decided to help persecuted Jews. It is estimated that tens of thousands of people have survived because of this help. Among those who died for helping the Jews was the Ulm family, Joseph, who was blessed with Victoria and their six underage children. Together with the hidden Didners, the Grünfelds and the Goldmans, they were murdered in their home in Markowa on 24 March 1944. In the Catholic Church there is a process of beatification of the Ulm family. After death, they were decorated by Poland and Israel, and in 2013 on the Yad Vashem Institute website it was written: 'Crime in Ulmach - when the whole family was murdered together with the hidden Jews - became a symbol of Polish sacrifice and martyrdom during the German occupation'. In this context, the lying words 'Polish extermination camps' or 'Polish SS' arouse the greatest indignation and deserve to be branded. Therefore, it is necessary to intensify the fight against negative stereotypes and slandering Poland, in which the new institution will help. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland recognises that the memory of Poles saving Jews should be an important part of public education. He also believes that it will not only be cultivated in the newly opened Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The families of Ulmów in Markowa, but also in other state and local institutions, in particular museums and educational institutions and social organizations. I would like to ask Members of Parliament to adopt this resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution accompanying the opening of the Museum of Poles Saving Jews during World War II. The Ulm families in Markowa. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. I would like to inform you that the amendments tabled during the second reading have been withdrawn by the applicants. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act 318. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 318, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 301 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, 131 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm passed a law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. We are returning to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate draft law on amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 316. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 316 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 277 Members voted against - 157 and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws (Print No. 294) - follow-up. In the discussion, a proposal was made to refer the bill to the Commission for Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies in addition. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear any objections, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposal which the Sejm Bureau has given me and that I will put this draft law to the vote. I can't hear you objecting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of additional referral to the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technology Commission of the draft Law No 294 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 56 Members voted against - 379, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. On the basis of the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 11 April 2016. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 48 hours 17 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I kindly ask Members who are not interested in discussing this point to leave the Chamber. I'm opening a discussion. You have the floor, please, with Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ministers! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position towards the government draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. At the beginning of our discussion on this draft law, Minister Beata Kempa presented in detail the legal solutions that are enshrined in the draft law. I will try to say a few sentences about the origins of World Youth Days. I think it is worth mentioning this when we are discussing such an important event, which we will see in Poland. The Great Pole of St. John Paul II, the Pope, from the beginning of his pontificate, has been particularly concerned about young people, understanding their problems in the modern world. Young people's days were actually born on the initiative of young people themselves. John Paul II wanted these days to be moments of stopping in the daily chase, to be days of prayer, days of talking with God. For the first time in 19841985, young people gathered in Rome on St. Peter on Palm Sunday. In 1986 on Palm Sunday, Pope John Paul II announced this day to be a permanent World Youth Day. It was then that Pope John Paul II answered the question of what are the World Youth Days: Youth Day means going to God's meeting, and it was the first World Youth Days. In 1991 the 6th World Youth Days took place in Częstochowa. It was then that my generation could proudly sing the hymn, which was the anthem of these festivities: You liberated us, Lord/With chains and yourself/And Christ becoming brother/ He taught us to cry out to you: Abba Father! We all remember those words and today you just want to sing them. The World Youth Days will be held for the 2nd and 31st time in Krakow on July 26, 2016 under the eloquent slogan: "Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy." For this extraordinary religious celebration, a religious event such as the World Youth Days, a festival of young people, Pope Francis himself will come. Częstochowa and Oświęcim are also included in the program of the visit. Częstochowa - Queen of Poland, Black Madonna is a special patron of the Polish nation on the 1050th anniversary of his baptism and to commemorate these events the pope will host the pope in Częstochowa. Oświęcim - camp Auschwitz-Birkenau (we have just adopted a resolution commemorating the Ulm family) is a place of special desecration of man and in this place Pope Francis will also be. In these places Pope Francis will be head of the Church, but also head of state. We must accept him with a group of pilgrims from all over the world. Today it is a group of young people from all over the world with nearly 600,000. people, not including pilgrims from our homeland, our compatriots. Hence, the government submits to the High House a special bill, a law which is of a special nature, is an expression of our concern for the organisation and security of the World Youth Days. The Act defines what is the responsibility of the ecclesiastical party as the principal organizer of the ceremony, but also defines the organisational tasks that lie on the government side. On behalf of the Polish Government, all matters related to the safety of participants of the World Youth Days, medical care, communication, security, communication and coordination of financial matters will be covered by the Małopolskie Voivodeship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club, bearing in mind the great responsibility for this exceptional event, is in favour of continuing the work on this project in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u223	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present our position on this bill. The visit of the Holy Father to Poland and the organization of World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 is a unique event. As announced by the organisers, up to 2.5 million young people from all over the world will participate, and therefore the initiative to prepare specific legal solutions is fully justified. The provisions contained in the Act should facilitate the organisation of meetings and improve the conditions for ensuring the safety of participants in this exceptional event, in particular medical, and public order. Unfortunately, a few regulations raise our doubts. In view of the short speaking time, I will focus on these key issues. The title of the Act suggests that it concerns the entire visit, and Minister Kempa spoke about it. However, the proposed records refer almost exclusively to World Youth Day organisations, because the archdiocese of Krakow is the only organizer. According to the programme announced on the last Saturday the visit of the Holy Father organizers will be at least a few, including the Polish Episcopal Conference, organizing even ceremonies in Czestochowa on Jasna Góra. It's hard to imagine a situation where one diocese is responsible for everything. Therefore, further work should be done to amend or limit the law only to the World Youth Days. It is also surprising to assume full responsibility for the development of a security plan during the World Youth Days only the Archdiocese of Krakow. In my deep conviction the archdiocese and the Polish Episcopal Conference can and should be responsible only for preparing this plan in meeting places, it is in Jasna Góra, in Cracow-Łagiewniki, in Błonia and in Campus Misericordiae. In other places, the voivode should be responsible for preparing this plan. He's the one with the tools to prepare such a plan. I don't think it's necessary to put this on the church side. The writing of the article is even more surprising. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 saying that the police can download, obtain, collect, check, process, use information, including personal data of persons registered as participants of the World Youth Days or volunteers cooperating with their organisations without their knowledge and consent. This means that each of us, every Pole and every guest from abroad, if he wishes to participate in the celebrations, will be able to be monitored. This record should be limited only to persons presenting a threat to security and public order. I can't believe the Holy Father would want to be in the title of a surveillance bill. The fact that the voivode will be responsible for preparing the medical security plan, for concluding a contract with the operators for the provision of services on the World Youth Day, for making the necessary purchases, does not raise any doubts. The problem is the absence of time limits within which the voivode should submit a medical security plan and conclude contracts for the provision of services with the entities referred to in Article. 15 laws. If we don't put deadlines in the bill, as we know life, everything will be moved to the last possible day. In the field of transport, the Act offers great opportunities to railway companies, regional railways. We have the possibility of introducing a timetable for trains, but it does not concern, in my view, the key problem which the Minister also referred to and which is in the justification of this law, I mean the rolling stock. Regional transport is not the only one that does not have enough rolling stock and regional companies do not have enough rolling stock. According to my knowledge, only in Małopolska do we need 150 significantly extended warehouses, and today's possibilities are at half that amount, so we will have a problem because there will be no necessary rolling stock. The Act imposes a number of obligations on road managers, but does not provide for the possibility of reimbursement of costs incurred. I would also like to point out that we would need a record that will authorise the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction to disable parts of the motorway on the section of Kraków - Wielicka - Szarów junction. In conclusion, I would like to express my regret that local governments are too often overlooked by the government in making decisions in this area, and I also want to consult on this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will remind you of last week's chaos related to changing the place of meeting with young people, failing to take into account the changes of local governments. I would like to appeal to what the Minister said, Pope Francis is not just coming to the PiS. He's coming to Poland. He's coming to meet young people from all over the world. Let us use these four months so that we can show them modern, open, smiling Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on this bill, and it is a government law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. In connection with the planned visit of Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Day - Kraków 2016, ensuring security and public order, securing medical care and creating all conditions guaranteeing the peaceful and proper course of the visit is one of the priority projects and tasks that lie not only on the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, but also on the whole parliament and local units. It is not necessary to stress that both events, as well as an efficient organisation of activities and adequate security will have a huge impact on the reception of Poland abroad, and that making every effort for the proper conduct of the visit of Pope Francis and the said World Youth Days will be essential for the image of our country. These issues are becoming extremely important, among others. not only because of the terrorist threats that we have been facing over the last few months, but also because of all the other threats associated with such a scale and gathering such a large number of visitors. In preparation for the visit mentioned above, a governmental draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 was sent to the Polish Parliament. principles of cooperation between public administrations, costs of carrying out specific tasks, transport organisation, medical care, etc. It envisages, among others, the possibility for the Minister of National Defence to provide support for the relevant organisation of infrastructure, logistics, transport, communications, security and public order, as well as for medical and sanitary protection. The proposed law provides for a number of specific arrangements, including the granting of additional police powers for the collection and processing of personal data about persons who pose a threat to security and public order, including those obtained and processed by other bodies and services, including as a result of the performance of operational and exploratory activities. Special powers will also be granted to the Railway Guards. These will be rights to search baggage or to record images and sound events in railway areas. However, all these specific powers are introduced temporarily until 31 August 2016 and, given the possible risks that could involve the organisation of such a large event, including the terrorist threats I mentioned, they should be considered appropriate. Of course, we have a few reservations, among others. in terms of a fairly broad concept of people who can be monitored or whose data will be collected and processed, namely that this will essentially apply to all participants of these World Youth Days. We believe, however, that this should be narrowed down in some way to people who may have some slight suspicions. Additional attention is also required for reservations concerning certain elements of the project, including, inter alia, lack of information on possible mechanisms for financing medical staff, here as if more detailed information, also mentioned by authorities, by some co-organizers, also by local authorities, the in practicality of models of medical records, the appropriateness of procedural simplifications also in the area of road infrastructure facilities or the lack of regulation on cycling and the provision of certain parking spaces for persons moving on this means of transport. To sum up, as a club very attached to civil liberties and freedoms, to ensure that society is as free as possible and as little surveillance as possible, we understand that the importance of the project, the weight of the events that await us this year in Krakow and Poland, requires such a response, not another response, so it also requires some restrictions that we have to accept in order to avoid a number of threats. In this context, Kukiz15 is in favour of referring this law to further work on the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Your voice is Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to present the position of the Modern Club to the government draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The possibility of hosting participants of World Youth Days in Małopolska is a great honour for all. I assume that harmonious cooperation between all institutions, both at central and local level, will make this a great challenge, and at the same time a spiritual and religious meeting, with the provision of all necessary standards for both the organisation, but above all the security of this meeting. I wanted to assure the Minister that the Modern Club will be actively involved in the preparation of this bill. We're aware that there's no time left. too much and it would be good for this law to be effective enough to launch very quickly those actions which are necessary to secure all matters relating to organisation, transport, medical assistance, but, of course, during the work of the committee we will submit our comments and amendments. Maybe right now I'm going to refer to three things that are quite important. I think it would be good to... Perhaps it will be an autocorrection by the applicants. The draft law does not specify whether medical staff, as regards other services, are defined, but does not specify whether the hospital's medical staff, who will provide health services to those participating in World Youth Day, will receive an additional remuneration for this. There is also no information on possible mechanisms for financing medical staff from medicinal entities that have not concluded an agreement with the Małopolska Voivodeship, but which will consequently provide, medical and health services for those participating in World Youth Day. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that if, as part of medical security, agreements are signed with the voivode in terms of volunteering, the various NGOs that will want to participate and help these days, it would be good to determine who will fund these people's insurance. It is in terms of insurance for these people in case something happens to them, but also in case these people, by providing assistance, i.e. being those who are doing this assistance, have also contributed to some unfortunate accidents - it is about civil liability insurance. Also for art. 14 we have some reservations, namely that there are models of medical records that are impractical in the case of securing such a large event. It is proposed to create a summary medical aid card, such as the model of which could be an annex to the Act, because indeed these existing legislation and this medical documentation seem to us too extensive and do not agree to this situation, and at such a large scale it seems to me that simplification of such procedures, simplification of documentation, as it seems, is most appropriate. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in Article. 25 a special act should exempt all contracts for both investment and services from the application of the Public Procurement Law, e.g. in the form of medical benefits and medical assistance. In the present form, the exemption only applies to an amount of 135 000. The euro and does not give the opportunity to implement all the necessary activities related to the organisation of World Youth Days. I participate in these medical security meetings in Krakow, and I would like to point out that, while the budget has been allocated for this security amount of PLN 15 million, in the opinion of the director of emergency services, who will coordinate all these activities, she thinks so. and such has prepared the budget, it will amount to about PLN 24 million. Therefore, these amounts are quite high and it would indeed be good to take this into account also in the absence of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. They're such comments. I guess we'll be able to discuss this at the committee's meeting so that this law really does. All the requirements and that we be ready to receive His Holiness as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u229	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u230	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ministers, In the history of our homeland there is a new, beautiful card, a new chapter. It is the visit of His Holiness the Holy Father Francis, as well as the World Youth Days, which will take place in Krakow from 25 July 2016 to 31 July 2016. It will not only be an event of great importance for us Poles, but also an event which, I believe, will mark us all, including guests who have already announced their presence on World Youth Days. Such moments do not happen often, hence the government of the Republic of Poland actually bears a heavy burden for such preparation for this visit, so that on the one hand it is worthy and lifting, and on the other hand you must be logistically secured. However, in order to achieve this goal, the Polish Parliament must create a specific tooling in the form of a statutory standard. The Marshal's staff was visited by a government bill dated 11 March 2016, on which we are proceeding in this Chamber today. Not only do we lean on the proposed solutions from its available part, but we also analyse the proposals submitted to the implementing act. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Human safety, and, in a global context, people, should not be the subject of disputes or polemics. Today's world is characterized not only by consumerism, but also by the progressive brutalisation of human behavior. Criminals equipped with state-of-the-art and intelligent means of combat do not go back to anything. The criminal world is always one step ahead of law enforcement. Our country and its power cannot afford to be lenient, to ignore possible dangers, or to show weakness. The time allowed to speak does not allow me to make a substantive reference to the individual solutions contained in the government submission. However, from this stand I assure you, on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, which I have the honour to represent, that we fully accept and support all the solutions contained in the bill, and even we are ready to support and accept other additional tightenings for which the government would request, and the necessity of which would ensure the safety of His Holiness Francis, the guests who have arrived and all those who will take part in such an important event. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u231	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the task of the question, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska has the floor. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today, in the first part of the session, we have heard of the numerous organisational failures made during the previous term in connection with the organisation of the NATO Summit. I fear that when the number of people gathered at the great event of the World Youth Day is huge, it is essential for the safety of these people to ensure health safety, although not only, but also tenders mean the need for an early announcement and this process is ongoing. I wanted to ask: Have ambulances been ordered in good time, which will be necessary in assembly places, in places of prayer, in places where meetings with the Holy Father Francis will be held? That is why my question to the Minister is: Has this been done in due time, or will it be necessary to organise these procedures under special conditions now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the World Youth Days involved in securing this huge event will be many different services, ranging from the police, through the fire department, railway, emergency and medical services. I have a question about that. Until now, during papal visits in our country, the events were also covered by trained rescue workers of the Mountain Volunteer Rescue Service. They were involved in first aid and rescue operations as highly qualified in this regard. The state budget secures funds for the organisation of World Youth Days. A large part of this expenditure will be spent on the work of the services during this event. GOPR rescuers were not allocated any additional money in this year's budget compared to previous years. Although there are 3 months left for World Youth Days, GOPR has no information yet as to whether rescuers will be involved in any action. I would therefore like to ask: Will the rescue services of GOPR and TOPR be in any [[♪ The bell ♪]] how involved in securing World Youth Days? If so, will the funds follow? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u235	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, there is a huge challenge ahead of us, but as a result of this challenge, we are giving additional powers to different institutions. They will also be obtained by the Railway Guard, which will have the right to look at the contents of the luggage between 18 July and 2 August. But there are other powers that go much further. The railway security service will have the right to record the image and sound of events in the railway area, trains and other railway vehicles where these activities are necessary to consolidate evidence of the offence or offence. Registered images or sounds are to be destroyed 30 days from the date of registration if they do not contain evidence of the offence. Unfortunately, we do not learn from the justification of this law why these additional powers for the Railway Guard regarding the possibility of recording passengers' conversations. And my question. I ask the Minister to state the reasons for the granting of these powers. Don't you think that such surveillance of the pilgrims and participants of the World Youth Days will be too far gone? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u237	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: It was me.]] I'm sorry. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The organization of World Youth Days connected with a visit to our country of His Holiness Pope Francis is undoubtedly a huge challenge for the services responsible for ensuring the safe conduct of the planned celebrations. Given the current terrorist threat and the expected number of participants, it is clear that the role of the authorities is to develop efficient and efficient procedures to ensure order and to respond adequately to possible violations of public order during World Youth Days. However, it should be noted that the draft law on special arrangements for the organisation of this event provides for the granting of exceptional and far-reaching powers to the police, which is to be temporarily authorised to obtain and use information, including personal data, to the categories indicated without the knowledge of the persons concerned themselves. While this regulation is intended primarily to concern people who pose a threat to security and public order, the inconspicuous and secluded nature of this condition poses a risk of extending the individual powers of the service to a closer unlimited circle of persons without any external control. I therefore ask the Minister to clarify the doubts surrounding the introduction of this regulation. Please also indicate what procedure will be a practical guarantee that the formal obligation to destroy the information acquired under the specific powers is met. [[♪ The bell ♪]] after expiry of the time limit laid down in the Act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, it is indeed a great event requiring special conditions for maintaining adequate security during these celebrations. Minister, we have a draft bill prepared, and there must have been a lot of people working on this project inter-ministerially. I wanted to ask you: To what extent did you consult this project, even with the main party of the organizer that you write about in the article. Three or four? What comments were made by the Church - the principal organizer of these celebrations, which you took into account in your project? How many comments were made about the government that is extremely active in this whole undertaking? Next question: How far does the interference of the voivodship in maintaining this security go? For, on the one hand, we say this: the Church is the organizer, and on the other we have security, which is connected not only with the celebration itself, but also outside the celebrations. After all, we know that - as you say - probably more than 2 million people will arrive in Poland at that time. What is the responsibility of the Małopolska Voivodeship? And the third question. In the course of these celebrations, natural persons give their land for preparation, for arrival, for this meeting with the pope. The state, on the one hand, is trying to refinance the local authorities' resources for the implementation of certain meliorations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but in turn in the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 you say these funds are refundable, right? Question: "Who will return?" Will it be those people, private owners who make this land available, or local governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I know very well how important and difficult this undertaking is, really very difficult, because I am from Częstochowa and in 1991, when we organized, as a city, the Church, Jasna Góra and of course the government, the 6th World Youth Days, it was an undertaking designed for the smallest detail. But it was mostly about the fact that between these three entities, because here these three entities are the most important, was full agreement. I remember, it wasn't an easy political period either, but all the disputes were suspended so that this undertaking could be executed perfectly. That's what happened. Today in the bill, which is very important - in general please understand that I do not deny it - there are some understatements. Because it's hard to imagine that only the Church is an organizational party. The Church can organize a religious event, while security should be provided by the government. But the third entity, extremely important, which should be included in the act, in the record, is the local government, because all tasks in the area of such a large local government as Kraków, Częstochowa and Oświęcim belong to this local government. And it is the voivode who is obliged to sign with the local government an agreement on the activities of the local government, i.e. [[♪ The bell ♪]] practically all actions. Another small question: Shouldn't the Silesian voivode under Częstochowa also be involved? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u243	Thank you. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The World Youth Days and the Holy Father's stay on our earth will be a unique event in the history of our country. The bill, which we are investigating today, aims to create the basis for developing plans to ensure the safety of visitors, but also to the inhabitants of Małopolska. The plan will include a plan to secure the medical pilgrims. The law describes in detail the way in which the medical protection is organised, indicates exactly the sources of the costs. While medical services are not subject to the Public Procurement Law and are not financed in this way, here it is possible to be calm about the choice of the providers of these benefits or their financing, while the purchase of medical equipment or ambulances is unfortunately already subject to these regulations. I therefore have a question: Is it still possible to amend these provisions in such a way that the necessary equipment can be purchased, especially ambulances, in such a way as to enable this purchase to be processed outside the Public Procurement Law, because the period until July can unfortunately make it impossible for us to purchase the necessary equipment using these provisions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u245	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u246	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law specifies that the main organizer is the archdiocese of Krakow, the Church, and at the same time the task of this main organizer is to develop a plan to ensure security during the World Youth Days. This is a bit of a weird shot. Maybe some of these points, which belong to this plan, do not surprise me as much as I am surprised by the point that says that this main organizer is to prepare and provide information, among others. Chief of Police, on anticipated security and public order threats. If it is so that the Church is to prepare this information, then I ask where are the services responsible for this security. I don't want to do anything here, of course, but maybe it's such a weird precaution that if God hadn't given up some difficult situation, unforeseen in this plan, then you'll say, "It's not us, it's the Church." Second thing. Who's the Church supposed to give this information to if the chief police officer isn't here? When's the chief gonna be here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And third thing, short. This has already been mentioned: the railroad security service. Will those people who have the authority to search, record, etc., be properly trained until then? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u247	Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First, I will refer to the one voice of the Messenger of Law and Justice. I want to tell you that it is not that the work on the World Youth Day organization was launched when the new government took over. Also in the previous year, a team was operating, operating and financial commitments were made. I had the opportunity as a marshal of the voivodship to participate in the work of this team. We made a decision in the local government of Małopolskie Voivodship for several tens of millions of PLN. The relevant decisions were made by Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, Minister Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. As a result, this organization, which is a great honor for us, is simply feasible. I have two more questions. On the basis of the number of questions, including Members of the Law and Justice, I assume that there will be a higher threshold for purchases without the application of the law, because that is why we are introducing rules to facilitate, if we cannot make purchases, it would be a record that would be dead. The Minister's reaction indicates that this will be the agreement. On the other hand, I would like to make one request. We are talking about installing additional installations in Krakow and in the Campus of Misericordiae. I would like to report that it is also extended to Częstochowa, Oświęcim, but above all to Kraków-Łagiewniki and Main Market Square, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because these people outside the celebrations will simply stay mostly in these places and it is worth to have these matters secured there as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u249	Thank you. Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u250	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Let me ask you a question in the context of the speeches that took place today in the Chamber during our discussion of the draft law. Well, it's Art. The 4th government project is really important with regard to security issues. I would like to ask you straight away: Does the Minister foresee any other editorial of this article, so that there is no doubt about who, in all these matters, is answering all the security issues? I think that would explain a lot of doubt. And the second issue, which is also extremely important, financial issues as regards the Public Procurement Act. Because we're spending public funds, we have to be in line with the bill. There is also concern, especially the financial services of the voivodship, and the question is directly whether the thresholds provided for in the Act will be abolished. And the question of deadlines, especially what my friend at the club asked me. It goes on for example. For the purchase of ambulances, because we're not hiding that we're going to exceed the sum of 130 grand when we buy ambulances. The euro, then, will it be possible. If we answer these questions, I think that many financial doubts would then also disappear from this discussion and make it easier to process, and at the moment it is necessary for it to run smoothly so that we can have a document ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u251	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new law related to World Youth Day and Pope Francis' visit to Poland is very necessary because the provisions on security of mass events do not apply to religious events. During such a large and important event, it is important to ensure the safety of participants, especially in the context of terrorist threats. Minister, I ask you to answer the question of how coordination will be linked to the safety of the participants of the World Youth Days and the Holy Father and whether this task will rest on the ecclesiastical side or also on the government side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u253	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Beata Kempa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u254	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the discussion. I am very pleased, perhaps, except for one little bit of malice, Mr Marshal, with an earlier voice, but we have a year of mercy, the slogan that the Holy Father and young people have chosen, I think that is that we can forgive each other and invite each other more to cooperate. I think, in that spirit, we'll be working on the committee soon. And full agreement on one thing: I would not, I would prefer, that around this law - I think that we all feel that way - there is a climate of work, great concern, responsibility above all, and not mutual movement. Politics doesn't really matter here. We were able to suspend these disputes whenever the Holy Father John Paul came II, and it has always translated only into good and very good impressions that we bring in our hearts - as he quoted here he is also Mr Sulphur - for many, many years. Let's keep it that way. Mr President, the Pope is coming to Poland, not to the PiS, the Civic Platform, the Modern Party or the Polish People's Party. I don't think we should have any argument about that. More on our side, above all on the side of the Sejm, this responsibility and in this spirit let us work, just ask for it. Let me say this: I am full of appreciation for cooperation and great concern on the part of the Church, on the part of the organizational committee, on the part of the Episcopate, on the part of all entities as a whole, but also on each of these individuals individually. There's been a question of consultation here. Yes, we are working on an ongoing basis, constantly meeting within the framework of both the government team and during various very working meetings, whether in Krakow or in Częstochowa, because such a meeting also took place, and also there will be another one because we have just received a confirmation on Saturday that these celebrations will have a larger dimension in Częstochowa, which is precisely this national mass. So we will intensify this cooperation here, but we will also look after it and have the task of watching the Małopolska voivodship. On this occasion, I would like to answer you about this question - some were actually very identical, universal, these things are the subject of your concern and I very much acknowledge it - the rules state clearly: the competent voivode, because we have the issue of voivodeship and Silesian, and Małopolska. The competent province is obliged because of the location of the event, and even already works and reports to us about all events. Yesterday, the first very large report was presented at the Government Security Centre and there will be more. Mr. Voivodeship has been obliged and individual services have been obliged to take further action. Our presence in Kraków or Częstochowa, which has already taken place, will now be intensified. All this is really dictated by not emails, not phone calls, but more on the job and making decisions that are very, very important. These problems actually appear sometimes, but, I think, we solve them together. As regards the comments made by you regarding Article. 4... I will perhaps come back to another point, not the title of malice, Mr President - I am always in favour of standing in the truth and basing myself on facts. Full agreement - you said that the previous government had set up a team, and here full agreement. Yes, he set up a team for World Youth Day Organizations, only that we found the situation that the team last met in July. And we actually had this information, this message that the World Youth Days were considered a local event. So we had to go much wider with our work, because it has an impact even now - the point is that young people will be in dioceses also before and some after. After all, we have another event, which the voivode draws attention to, and above all the Church: the next day after Sunday, i.e. on Monday, 250,000. pilgrims, neocatechumen - it will also be a big meeting, and the servants will be tasked with securing them very carefully. So it will also be increased service work in terms of diocese issues, throughout the country, and that is obvious. But the situation is developmental and I just wanted to put this point in order. Ladies and gentlemen! There were a lot of comments on the article. Four of this bill. It was also a question of whether we consulted this in this regard, especially with the church party. Yes. The organisational committee has also submitted comments to the Article. 4, except that these comments were received after the Council of Ministers' Permanent Committee, so in order to accurately re-examine them, we decided that we would take these comments into account to a large extent during the legislative process. I count very much on your fellow Members in this regard. And we're going to have our lines here, too, so we can meet them, because they're really the idea of art. 4 it was for the organizational committee to indicate places, to indicate certain elements, but, here full agreement, it must be in full cooperation and in agreement with the competent voivode. This is actually for a good cause, as far as practice is concerned, it is happening, but we will, of course, define it in the bill and hope that you will raise your hands behind it. So that it is not that all responsibility for this security will be transferred to the church site, because it is obvious that this cannot be the case. That's what they're here for. They're ready and they're on duty. These preliminary plans, which you sent to us yesterday and which we discussed at the Government Security Centre, indicate that practically the services are no longer asleep at the moment, but are working on how to secure all points of the Holy Father's visit, and especially the World Youth Days. You have also paid great attention to the issue of public procurement rules. Here, as part of the consultation, there was a conversation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in particular, where the elements related to these sufficient thresholds were pointed out. We will, however, accept, as if we are directly taking over a provision from the preamble to the European Parliament and Council Directive of March 2004, in order to show even more that when we have the purchase or subject matter of an order relating to the provision of public health, public health, life or human health, it is just such a provision taken over from the preamble, at this point in time we have such procedural security - that we can make these purchases. So that, I address it to all of you, especially doctors, nurses, we have such countries in our parliament who think about it, you deal with it every day - we understand that it can spend your sleep from the eyelids, and so we will clarify this further, taking this preamble straight away and in the justification of the question of this directive - the fact that we have this possibility, because the nature of this assembly, both of them and of another one, points to it. Once again, I would like to emphasise what I have said, what is contained in the explanatory memorandum and also in the records that the equipment purchased will be passed on to the Minister of Health. The equipment is always needed. Any equipment will be useful. This will not be an excessive expense, and in our situation this effort will also be made to help people in the coming years. It is here in a very responsible manner defined by the services and I must say that this first preliminary security plan, which was handed over yesterday by the medical services of your voivodeship, is also very good in my opinion, but of course we will all continue to work on it together so that all these elements are included. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek talked about the possible inclusion or asked a question about the possible inclusion of various other security actors. You specifically asked me a question about GOPR. There was also a question about volunteer firefighters. All these elements at the stage of the construction of a very detailed security point will be established with the voivodeship: in the case of World Youth Days with Mr Małopolska Voivodeship, in the case of Częstochowa events with Mr Śląskie Voivodeship. As far as I know, these actors will have very clear and precise tasks, but also from what I know, these actors - and the voluntary fire department, and GOPR - always in a really responsible way and willing even on their own to suggest how to improve all these activities that can serve security, and we certainly hope for that too, but all in good time will be passed on by your voivode in turn. The plan for such a security under the Act should be submitted by 15 May, so we are currently working on it and further services are being imposed on this plan and foreseen to do so. At the moment, all the most important safety points have been identified: points, sub-sections, elements, journeys, all that is needed for our young people and pilgrims to be safe. As far as measures are concerned, these measures are secured by a voivod. The bill, together with the budget law, sometimes is quite difficult to read - I myself had problems with it, today, after these 10 years, is a bit better - but I want to reassure you, especially your doctors: the medical security is fully secured, i.e. 24 million and 15 million in reserve, if the situation really required some additional security elements. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska asked a question about the Railway Guard. On this occasion, if you would allow me, because there was also a series, which, to be honest, I expected, although I think that here we should stand a wall behind this security... The message from our side is unambiguous and we will always send this message if we are sure that it is safe: welcome, it is safe in our country. But in view of the events in the international space that we are dealing with, especially the recent events in Turkey or the events in Paris, that is, the issue of terrorist threat... In short, here I am able to answer any charge that would be made on this bill. Why? For this simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you... Of course, set here we accept very much and there may be something missing - full agreement. When we were working on this project, first of all, we took into account the records that were... Remember how the Euro 2012 special was. Remember? Then we put in, colloquially speaking, art. 68a to the law on security of mass events. It was an art. 68a. He was also for the duration of this event, as were those records. This is an episode act, so it is clear that it has strict deadlines in this respect. Then in this article. 68a... I don't want to read it all here, unless you want it, but these records are almost, you can say, actually the same as what we took today in the special. So then there was this security concern, and all those solutions to those who pose a threat, when there's a reasonable assumption... We are also saying here that this is about those people who, in our view, can pose a threat in the assessment of the services, which is a very tight circle of people to whom these measures can be applied. Data obtained, processed by other authorities, services, institutions, including through the performance of operational and exploratory activities, obtained or processed by law enforcement authorities of other countries, including without the knowledge and consent of data subjects, to the extent referred to in Article. 68c - that's all we've been through. This is nothing new, nothing out of the ordinary, and please pay attention to it. And I ask that we also speak of this more in the context of this spirit of responsibility for this powerful crowd, which is to focus, one can say, at one point. So that's what I wanted to explain here to all the people who are talking about it. This time limit, which is set, is intended to address this potential threat effectively. These special privileges will apply - I repeat once again: this is written in the act - until 31 August, so only for the time of this event. I would like to say that some people, even a large part, such are declarations, stay in Poland, so they will still be there. After this time, the data must be destroyed and the procedure for data destruction is already a procedure in force for the service. This is a very strict procedure that will have to be followed when these actions are completed. It can also be controlled, even by the Supreme Board of Control, so there is no here, I think, there should be no doubt. On the issue of the Railway Guard, we also discussed this at the Council of Ministers Permanent Committee, so here it was, if I recall correctly, a proposal from the Minister of Infrastructure in this area. It is about recording the image and sound in a situation when it is absolutely - I think we are aware of it - a huge amount of people in this rail traffic. It's really easy to have events of all kinds here. Then such a recording of the sound or image, but mostly it is about the image, because such devices have, and the inclusion of this service in the manner that you speak about, which you postulate - it is about e.g. GOPR or the voluntary fire department - that is to say, including the Rail Guard in order to secure... This is a service that is very well prepared for this and very professional. Let us give them these powers for that time so that they can help the police to reduce or eliminate potential threats or - God forbid - I will, of course, knock on the platform here - if such situations happen, of course, to determine the perpetrators. I'm sure that'll help. That's another question. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej raised the issue of this destruction procedure. I think I've already explained that. These procedures, as well as earlier police, will apply to people - this circle, I say it again, is a narrow circle. - which, I repeat, in the evaluation of the services, will pose a potential threat to which this is suspected. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski asked how far we consulted these provisions with the Church. That's what I said. We anticipate the possibility of working on, once again, Article. 4, so that the Church no longer has any doubts. We're far from it. We are very impressed by the great work that has already been done by the Organisation Committee and by all the other actors involved. As far as self-government is concerned, here all responsibilities will rest primarily on the voivodeship, which the voivode is aware of. As far as other local governments are concerned, I have already met with President Częstochowa and although the political differences between us are actually very large, I must say that the security discussion was very high. I hope this element stays here. Of course, the President has sent letters to the Prime Minister on various issues, but these were mainly budgetary proposals. I think we're going to explain to the President here what we have to do with the voivodeship budgets, the resources that are in the individual departments' budgets, because we've already put them there, so we're definitely going to have to talk about it here. I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be as part of our study trips. Just one of the mayors, but maybe I won't... I don't want it to be any pain, but I still hope that this cooperation will be very good. He sends people or maybe once he sent people to replace him, although we really wanted to talk, because the case is absolutely important and crucial, but maybe everything is still ahead of us. I hope we have all the good things ahead of us. Of course, we are very open to these conversations, whether in the field or on site. My law firm, as far as local governments are concerned, is most open to conversations. As for the question of Mrs Halina Rozpondek from the Civic Platform, I would also like to stress here that: just the competent voivode, which is also the Silesian voivode, and full agreement to suspend any disputes in this matter. Mrs Rat-Jelly of Law and Justice... I think I've already explained the matter of equipment and the purchase of equipment, ambulances and possible doubts about the Public Procurement Act. Mr Józef Lassota also asked about the matter of the organizer's duties, i.e. the article. 4. We're gonna process it. He asked when the police chief would be called, the chief, I understand. I would like to say: full agreement, the main command is responsible for many issues, for all, but the main burden of responsibility, security, appropriate plans and decision-making is at the level of the voivodship command. I would like to assure you that this cooperation with the voivodship command is exemplary. Mr Marek Owa. I have responded, sir, I think, on this team. You asked about a very important matter. You asked me about a fundamental matter. I will even repeat here after Minister Streżyńska, who at the beginning, when we set up the team, said a thing that I personally liked very much, but I think it also fits very well into what young people think: sometimes they can endure various logistical inconveniences, but the Internet has to work. And indeed, such turbulence would be a stain on the image of our country. This is a very difficult undertaking, one of the most difficult alongside logistics security and security. From here we have relays, hence we have the issue of moving objects. We also anticipate some more flexible proposals in this area. And here the full agreement: limiting only to certain elements is too narrow, but that is because, sir, it is only since Saturday that we really know what the exact plan of the visit of the Holy Father is, but also for another reason. The work of the Minister of Digitization has moved forward and as if they could already be compatible with our law. So this is where we're gonna be working on this article. Mr Sulfur. Mr President, thank you for calling this atmosphere up, because it is very important. In fact, we are all already in this atmosphere, but very positive emotions certainly cannot obscure the key issues, namely security. In this situation, I would like to ask you as much as possible about the article. 4, so that the ecclesiastical side will be absolutely calm here, that we will share these technical, legal, logistical issues and all that ensures security. Mrs Kozanecka. Do we have coordination of the work of the Church - the government? I'll say it again: I'm impressed. At the moment, the meetings were intensified, including within the government team. Every such meeting is always held whenever there is a signal, whether the church party comes to Warsaw, whether we are in Cracow in particular or on Jasna Góra. I really think that if we all worked together the way this cooperation looks right now, I think we could do a lot more for our country. And these comments of the organizer in this area will be taken into account as much as possible. Our role here is absolutely a servant role. And I think that everything we've secured, these measures, these legal safeguards, should be enough, but we should all have eyes and ears, eyes very wide open. And I really think that our country is definitely being watched in this respect too, so it's worth giving a signal that nothing can break us apart, that the security issue of these just cool kids coming from all over the world is a priority for us, that on this issue we will be very professional, less political and more professional. And if we're going to rescind, which I'm very much asking, as soon as possible, this law, including those voices which you have also raised here today, which we also see, but for procedural reasons concerning the implementation of this law, we couldn't take into account at this stage, if we adopt this law very quickly, then I think we will already be able, and the organisational committee, and the government side, knowing what the plan of the visit is, run, go full steam. And there's really no money going to go to waste. On the contrary, there is a great deal of these needs, especially when it comes to medical protection. This will continue to serve people according to this idea, according to this message, which always serves us so that we can serve each other and help each other. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Membership! The servants are here with us, too. I have already done so, but there has been a chatter, you know, before the votes, but, finally, once again, I want to thank the services here very warmly for their great concern, every attention, every possible voice, for their really great responsibility and for the fact that you feel the burden of this powerful responsibility. And let us hope that we can all bear this responsibility together, that together we will cause this great spiritual experience to take place in an undisturbed way, that there will also be a great promotion of our country through the message of the young people. I hope that the message of young people through these modern media will be so undisturbed that modern evangelization, which will flow from Poland, will be possible mainly thanks to our consensus. I hope that on this occasion we will just speak with one voice, as I wish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u255	Thank you, Minister. [[Excuse me, can I have a word with you?]] Mr Owl in mode? [[Corrections.]] Mr Owl, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I volunteered to repeat it to the full again: the bill is needed, we want to work on it. We want to vote in favour of this law so that it makes it easier for us to use these four months and make the best possible preparations. On the other hand, some of the themes to which I referred were because you, when presenting the bill, did not say that, as a result of the announced plan of the visit of the Holy Father last Saturday, you would make changes. At the very beginning I said that we are doing this only for World Youth Days, or we are consistently updating it to the program of the visit that was. And a word about the meetings of the previous government. What I'm trying to say is that you were authorized by the governor, Jerzy Miller. I firmly believe that the report was also received by Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the end when he left the service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u257	Minister Beata Kempa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! There's absolutely no dispute. I met with Mr. Voivodeship Miller at the end of the day. In a very responsible way, we communicated various information that could be provided officially and unofficially. So I'm confirming it here. On the other hand, perhaps at the beginning, during the presentation of the bill I thought, I quoted the definition of World Youth Days from the article. 1 because later we use this definition during the entire bill. I told you what that definition looked like, but I also told you about the visit plan that was announced on Saturday. I don't think there's any dispute about this at all between us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u259	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on special arrangements related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016, contained in print No. 332, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 16 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u260	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, i.e. On 15 March 2016, together with other members of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, we conducted a field visit to the Białowieża Forest. As a result of a number of negligence, lack of proper decisions and, above all, harmful decisions, the state of the forest in the wilderness today is extremely tragic. The destruction of entire forest ecosystems has also begun. The scale of negligence and the consequences of the wrong decisions of environmental ministers in 2011 and 2015 is enormous. During this period, the principle of universal forest protection was not applied throughout the wilderness, especially in economic forests, contrary to the law, because pests are wreaking havoc, and the misguided plans of forest equipment approved by former environmental ministers prevent foresters from properly carrying out the tasks imposed on them by the law. Application of other existing rules, i.e. the continuity and sustainable use of all forest functions and the expansion of forest resources is completely neglected. The saddles are ruining themselves. The sustainability of forests in the forest is particularly disturbed, as there are no conditions for natural renewal in places where trees are dying and there are no artificial plantings compatible with the habitat types of the forest. The area without any care, especially in economic forests, should not exceed 2%. These environmental ministers, contrary to the rules in force, were subject to the pressure of a number of environments, including professors' environments, which drew wrong conclusions, narrowing their interest to very narrow issues. The forest ecosystem is not only a single species that one likes more, another less, but it is a whole series of populations of countless species of plants and animals, some of which are not yet discovered. The laws of nature do not depend on man. Man has the right to view nature, to be an integral part of nature, and to use it rationally. It is particularly dangerous that some, fortunately a small group of scientists, by examining the narrow scope of their work, present erroneous conclusions which are passed on, including through the media, and thus the public is misled. I suppose each of us wants to protect the forest, which is especially our good, which has taken care of dozens of generations, but there are periods in our history in which this work is destroyed. Such a bad time is the last years, in 2011, in which the decisions of the then environmental ministers approved the misguided plans of forest equipment for the forest, refused to protect the forest, was not allowed to fight forest pests, including mainly with the printer's barker. There is also a serious danger that the gene pool of spruce population that has been present here for centuries on boreal spruce. Material losses, taking into account the need for premature logging of stands, are well above PLN 1 billion. Without consequences for these particularly, exceptionally bad decisions cannot be said about responsibility in the future for subsequent decision-makers. For a man who has practical knowledge and experience and is closely associated with the forest, yesterday's view of the forest in the Białowieża Forest is terrifying. The most important task at the moment is to start saving the Białowieża Forest especially quickly by removing from the forest all inhabited spruce, and not only spruce, because other species of trees are also attacked here by these and other pests. The local population should be especially treated here, given priority, because it was its ancestors who left us the forest which was and should be the glory of us Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow at hours. 15 begins with another manifestation, another act of fighting the Vilnius Poles, Poles in Lithuania, about their rights, about education begins. Unfortunately, as a country, we have a big problem with our neighbour in the northeast. This problem has lasted for 25 years and is expressed, firstly, in the destruction of Polish education in Lithuania, secondly, in the reduction of spelling of names in Polish, the elimination of spelling names in Polish, third, in punishment for double names of streets, squares, towns, even where Poles constitute an overwhelming majority, fourthly, is expressed in the fact that the return of property plundered by the Lithuanian state during the period of communism takes place on scandalous principles which prefer ethnic Lithuanians and discriminate against Poles. This situation takes place for one fundamental reason - because the strategic objective of the Polish State is wrongly set against the Republic of Lithuania. The strategic objective of the Republic of Lithuania is to lituanise 250 thousand people - various estimates say so - the Polish minority in Lithuania. This is the purpose that the Lithuanian State set itself during the 20th interwar period, unfortunately this operation was successfully carried out, and this is the objective which the Lithuanian State, the Republic of Lithuania, sets itself after 1991 also as its primary, overarching objective towards the Polish minority in Lithuania. Those are the facts. And what is the strategic objective of the Polish state and, unfortunately, this principle has been in force for 25 years? This strategic objective is good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Lithuania. So if the Lithuanians for their strategic goal put the liquidation of the Polish minority in Lithuania and we set good relations with Lithuania as our strategic goal, then what does it mean? This means, the High Sejm, that the Republic of Lithuania has been gradually seeking to lituitate Poles in Lithuania for 25 years and Poland has not strongly responded to this. That's our biggest problem. When we are at meetings of the Communications Commission with Poles abroad, the Kres team, there is always a lamentation. The end activists, Poles from Vilnius, are lamented about the next ministers, MEPs - they all break their hands. There's nothing we can do. Why? That's why we're setting ourselves a strategic goal. The strategic objective of the Polish state towards the Republic of Lithuania must be to protect and support our minority in Vilnius. Another way of making a case means betraying Poles in Vilnius. This means that Poland - unfortunately so far for 25 years - puts the abstract - I will say why abstract - relations with the Lithuanian state rather than the good of Poles. Why are they abstract? This, of course, showed an example of Możek and a huge, giant Polish investment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Lithuanians do not respect this Polish outstretched hand in any way. Not only is the Lithuanian Republic continuing its lithuanization course towards our minority - from the dispersal of Polish local governments in the early 1990s to the current actions aimed at the liquidation and reduction of our education in Vilnius, but such gestures are powerful, very generous gestures, as Orlen's investment, is also for nothing. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for Lithuania, good relations with Poland are not a priority. For Lithuania, the priority is to lituitate our minority. And contrary to what is believed in Poland, which many unfortunately also in this Seym, also in the government thinks, Lithuanians have seen the so-called threat throughout the last hundred and dozen years as a greater threat. an internal Pole than, as some believe in Warsaw elites or most Warsaw elites, an external threat in the form of Russia. You have to be very aware of that. And there are consequences to it. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the government of the Republic of Poland, should put matters of Poles in Lithuania in a strict manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u263	Thank you very much, sir. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 18 hours 19 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We're continuing with the Members' statements. Please take the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Good news and bad news for the opposition. Good news for the opposition: God did not listen to Jarosław Kaczyński. Bad news for the opposition: God did not listen to Jarosław Kaczyński when he wished for Christmas and New Year for opposition politicians to wise up. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u265	Please take the floor of Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the statements and attempts of the merger - de facto liquidation - the Upper Silesian Museum in Bytom, referring to the statements of Henryk Mercik, a member of the Board of the Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship, a conservator of monuments, in the Wyborcza Gast, Radio Katowice and in the German Gast in the Republic of Poland, I would like to respond to public statements. They're not true. It seems to me to regret the ignorance of the official, a politician who should have full knowledge of the property entrusted to him in the form of the Upper Silesian Museum. However, the statements of a member of the Management Board of the Silesian Voivodeship are part of the current fashion for manipulation, disinformation of the reader, the listener of the media. Further ideas of the board member - using the Upper Silesian Museum as equivalent to the Copernicus Science Centre or to create a permanent exhibition dedicated to the expelled one - introduce chaos, confusion, media noise created to cover the difficult problems of Silesia, which the present authorities cannot deal with. Local authorities do not know and do not want to know anything about the resources of the museum in Bytom, and even worse, they treat the entrusted property as their own farm, they throw away, without an idea for the museum, charging, giving public opinion of their crazy dreams. When inventing uncircumcised things, the authorities forgot that the Museum in Bytom is doing well and should act as it has so far, and needs two things: the sacred peace of mind during research work and exhibition work and money, which the Marshal's office stings, subsidising one-off events or financing bubbles produced by itself and requiring continuous grants, the Silesian Stadium - the most expensive in the world - or equally expensive Silesian Railways. The Silesian region cannot afford to destroy museum resources, to squander the scientific achievements of generations and to reduce museum units, which are very few in the region compared to developed countries. There's no permission to do that. Attempts to destroy the assets in the form of historical and cultural facilities through the lack of grants or symbolic grants, removals of substantive employees indicate sabotage, intentional and conscious destruction of Silesia and its achievements. The claim of concern for Silesia is a facade behind which there is a desire to strip us of material goods of a trans-regional nature, to eradicate Silesians from ties with their homeland. Leaving cultural goods mentally and materially means a deliberate policy of pushing Silesians into the role of unconscious slaves having encoded work for Western corporations. Museums and galleries, in general culture is a difficult obstacle to achieving the ideal of the present authorities of the region, which is the creation of a modern, mindless and hardworking Silesian - a slave. These actions are difficult to regard as unconscious activities, which are companyed by educated people, among others by art historian. A more vivid example is difficult - an art historian who has been destroying one of the richest museums in the south of the country for years, rushing to destruction. There must be a different argument behind the fierceness in destroying the museum in Bytom than in public. Perhaps time will show what the creators of the deliberate destruction of Silesia's cultural heritage were driven by, certainly not caring for its well-being, and already between fairy tales one should put a fatal economic situation. Just look at the budget planned for culture in the Silesian Voivodship in 2016. The conclusions are clear and come to light on their own. Ladies and gentlemen! I express my great appreciation to the Minister of Culture, who cares for a facility that does not destroy what our ancestors have built. I hope that this attack on our goods will eventually end and that institution, which is the Upper Silesian Museum, will be managed by a person who has both education and is well prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u267	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year is the 35th anniversary of Bydgoszcz events. On March 19, 1981, events took place in the Voivodeship National Council building in Bydgoszcz, which shocked public opinion in our country and alarmed many countries of the world with the possibility of Soviet intervention in Poland. Dramaturgy related to the beating of trade union activists has obscured, in the public opinion, a deeper background and causes of the events of that time. Their origin is due to coordinated protest actions by farmers demanding registration of their own trade union, consisting in arriving under the offices of tractors and cars. They needed support from the NSZZ.Solidarity, because they had limited scope for choosing forms of protest. From a severe and effective form of protest of halting the supply of agricultural products, they could not and would not benefit because it would turn against them. They would have suffered financial losses and aroused dislike and dissatisfaction from the city's inhabitants. Authorities would be eager to take advantage of the opportunity to blame them for their insufficient supply of food and conflicting villages with the city, the destruction in the bud of solidarity between them. Blocking the roads and offices of agricultural tractors was not an option because of the high fines imposed by the militia. The NSZZ Individual Farmers (Solidarity) set up a voivodeship strike committee with President Piotr Bartoszcze, murdered in February 1984 by the so-called. The unfamiliar culprits. Blocking the creation of new economic and professional organisations led farmers to declare an occupation strike at the headquarters of the Provincial Committee of the United People's Party and to establish the National Strike Committee of the NSZZ Individual Farmers' Association of Solidarity. The choice of place was very eloquent and very annoying for the authorities. He revealed the total servitude of this supposed political representation of the Polish village, hiding its head in the sand, which is an outbuilding of PZPR. This happened just three days before the announced session of the Voivodeship National Council, at which the delegation of the NSZZ NSZZ.Solidarity had permission to present its position on the creation of farmers' trade unions and agricultural and food problems. On 19 March two objectives were to be met firmly and to the end. Firstly, by interrupting the WRN session and refusing to allow the union delegation to appear, it was intended to show that "Solidarity will have nothing to say in public matters reserved for the communist authorities, which do not intend to share the power to the least extent. Secondly, at night it was planned to pacify the strikers in the occupied building of ZSL farmers. It was supposed to be the end of a dream about political changes in the Polish village. These goals were not achieved by the authorities of the Polish People's Republic due to the determination, courage and determination of the activists of both unions, mutual support and broad and decisive support of the majority of Polish society. Self - discipline and responsibility have been preserved. As a result, the authorities had to step down and register the NSZZ Individual Farmers Solvency. Recalling these important historical events, it is worth noting how valuable national solidarity was at the time for society and how important it was for independent and local trade unions. It is also worth looking for answers to the question of why today we have such a different situation and what needs to be done to increase national solidarity, so that the interests of the general public and the dignity of people at work are better and more effectively protected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year, the 686th anniversary of this city's allocation is celebrated in Tarnów. I am honored to be able to look with you at the beautiful history of this city when I hold the seat of a Member of the Polish Parliament. The first written mention of Tarnów dates back to 1105. It was mentioned as a village belonging to the Benedictine Abbey in Tyniec. On 7 March 1330, King Władysław Łokietka's royal law firm issued a document to the voivode of Kraków by which he could locate the city of Tarnów. The city was laid on a hill. Tarnow's location became his advantage, because it was here that trade routes crossed from east to west, from north to south. At the end of the 15th century. Tarnów was visited by fires that consumed much of the city's buildings. The then owner of the town Jan Amor Tarnowski rebuilt it by expanding the collegiate church. It was during Jan Tarnowski's time that the city was flourishing, he was an excellent host and organizer. From 1567 to 1787, i.e. over 220 years, numerous fires, pestilences, then wars, and above all the greed of owners ruined the prosperity of the city. Once again, the city began to develop only since the end of the 18th century. In 1782. Tarnów became the seat of the circus, in 1783, 1786 the capital of the diocese, and in 1787, the seat of the court. 1856 was one of the breakthroughs in the history of the city. This year the construction of the railway line running through Tarnów ended. This event has caused a very violent development of the city. Tarnów became an industrial city. There's been a big increase in the population. When World War I broke out, the Polish Shooting Teams, the Shooter and the Falcon took off from Tarnów. At the end of October 1918 Tarnów was the first city in Poland to regain his freedom. At the beginning of 1927 the construction of the State Plant of Nitrogen Unions in the village of Świerczków near Tarnow, named after Mościce, was started since 1929, incorporated into Tarnow. This one of the biggest industrial investments of interwar Poland contributed significantly to the development of the city, which became an industrial city. On August 28, 1939, a time bomb left by a German diversion broke out at the railway station in Tarnów, resulting in 20 deaths. This event preceded the outbreak of World War II. On June 14, 1940, the first transport of prisoners to the Auschwitz extermination camp created by the Germans began from Tarnów. Tarnów prisoners, in the number 728, became the first victims of this extermination camp. At the beginning of September 1943, the Tarnów ghetto was destroyed. During World War II Tarnów was a major underground and guerrilla centre in southern Poland. The liberation from the Nazi occupation took place on 18 January 1945. Today Tarnów is an important cultural, economic and communication centre of the Małopolska voivodship. The 686th anniversary of Tarnow's allocation is not only a celebration of the city, but above all a celebration of all its inhabitants, because it is they who create history, multiculturalism and richness of the city. It was in Tarnów that the greats of this world were born, among others. General Józef Bem, Fr. Professor Michael Heller and Jan Szczepanik. On the occasion of my birthday, I would like to present to the local authorities Tarnowo and all its residents the wishes of the next successful years of development. May every decision made best serve the city. I wish you only exceptional days, and the anniversary will be an inspiration to the next unique challenges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 17 March this year. We will celebrate the 98th anniversary of the birth of Józef Franczak nicknamed Dolls, Sergeant of the Polish Army, participant in the Polish defence war in 1939, later connected with the structures of the ZWZ-AK, the last soldier of the Polish underground anti-communist and independence, who had no chance to take a normal life. When the war ended, he was 27. For the next 18 years, he was hiding in a country for which freedom was fought. Józef Franczak was born in 1918. He was from a poor peasant family. He had five siblings. As a 17-year-old, he joined the Polish Army. When he graduated from the Petty Officer's School at the Police Training Center in Grudziądz, he was assigned to a platoon of MPs in equality. After the outbreak of World War II and the aggression of the Soviet Union against Poland, he was arrested by Soviets. He managed to escape from slavery. In 1940 he joined the OGM and later worked in the Home Army. In 1944, Józef Franczak was forced to become officers until 2. The Polish Army Army. A year later, when he witnessed the passing and execution of death sentences on acakes, he decided to desert and therefore had to hide from power. In the beginning he stayed for several months, among others. in Łódź and Sopot, but soon returned home. Dalek was involved in a number of attacks on the so-called. fixers of folk power - militiamen and soldiers of security formation. He was wounded several times, and once, in 1946, arrested. In 1947, Franczak led several patrols in the Freedom and Independence Unit led by Captain Zdzisław Bronski, Uskok. The following year, a patrolman named "Doll" was ambushed by the Security Office. Only Franczak escaped with his life. On February 10, 1953, together with Wiktor and Zbigniew Pielach, Felk, they carried out an expropriation action of the Commune's co-operative in Sands to obtain funds to survive the winter. The action didn't work. The teller had time to call the police. Stanisław Kuchciewicz, the last commander of Franczak, was killed in a confrontation with the militia. His fate was shared earlier by Jeronim Dekutowski, Zdzisław Uskok Bronski and many others. For the next 10 years, he was hiding. He did not appear during the amnesty in April 1956. He was sentenced to banishment and outlawed by the authorities of that time. He was one of the most wanted people in the country. On October 21, 1963, a group of SB officers and 35 zombies surrounded the buildings of Wacław Becia, where Franczak was staying. There's been a shooting. Dalek tried to run away. Unfortunately, he was wounded to death. The same day at night, the doll's body was transported to the Medical Academy in Lublin. A nameless burial, as in the case of his comrades in arms, was carried out secretly at the cemetery at ul. Unicka. Four days later, his family dug up his naked, headless body and made a worthy burial. As of 2007 the Commission IPN conducted an investigation that led to her discovery at the Medical University of Lublin. The third burial of the doll took place in the assistance of the Garrison Command Warsaw. In 2008 in recognition of the merits of Franczak in the fight for independent Poland, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński awarded him posthumously with the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. In Cracow's Jordan Park, among the well-deserved Poles eight years later, the bust of Józef Franczak, ps. Dolls. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to speak on the 105th anniversary of Stefan Kisielewski's birth, which took place on 7 March. Stefan Kisielewski is a very important figure for Members of Freedom. He is one of the founding fathers of the freedom movement, modern freedom movement, conservative-liberal movement in Poland. He is famous, he was famous because he is already dead, composer, publicist, writer, man of culture, art, but also a man with expressive philosophical, economic views, a man of renaissance that no longer exists. Stefan Kisielewski was also the founder of a wide conservative-liberal movement. It is exchanged with Mr Mirosław Dzielski as the father of the founder of the movement, from which they originate among others. our fellow Members of freedom. This anniversary is very important to us, because so far the views and what Stefan Kisielewski left behind are our clue, our signpost, our credo, through which we exist in politics. Without Stefan Kisielewski, this freedom movement, the conservative-liberal movement would certainly not take the form it is now taking. The Kisiel Prize, which is such a remnant of the most famous remains of Stefan Kisielewski, also deserves attention. The award is given to outstanding figures every year. Her chapter, of course, was changing. It's already... There is no longer as much liberal conservativeism as there was in the beginning, but it should be mentioned, because it is also a legacy of Stefan Kisielewski. The majority of Members of Freedom, not only of Freedom, many Members of the Right originate from a widely understood conservative-liberal, conservative trend in moral matters, liberal in economic, economic matters. Stefan Kisielewski's views on these matters were known and undisputed even in times of deep communism. Stefan Kisielewski's words entered the Polish language, the Polish language canon. The famous saying that tea does not become sweeter than mixing - among other things. that saying came out of Stefan Kisielewski's mouth. With this statement, I wanted to pay tribute and expressions of remembrance to this outstanding Pole and to show you that there are outstanding, respected figures in our free movement that we should remember and that we should have deep respect for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u275	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u276	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! My statement will also apply to an outstanding character - a character, which on 6 March this year. She was celebrating her 90th birthday. This is Mr Andrzej Wajda. Mr Andrzej Wajda celebrated his 90th anniversary in Krakow. There was a beautiful concert of film music from his films, then a meeting. To those who may not remember - although it is widely known - I will remind you of Wikipedia, a free encyclopedia, who Andrzej Wajda is. Andrzej Witold Wajda, born on 6 March 1926 in Suwałki - Polish film and theatre director, in 1989.1991 Senator First term, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle. His popularity was brought to him by the so-called movies. Polish film school: Kanal and Ash and Diamond in which he settled against the time of World War II. He has made filming of many literary works, such as Ashes, Birchwood, Wedding, Promised Land, Virgin of Wolf and Lord of Tadeusz. He co-created the cinema of moral unrest, within which they were founded in social subjects, exposing the pathologies of the communist system in Poland images: the marble man and his continuation of the Iron Man, awarded with the Golden Palm in Cannes. Among the contemporary works of Andrzej Wajda are: the Martyrological film Katyń and the experimental film Tatarak. The director also initiated the creation of the film band X, the Championship School of Film Directory set up in 2001 and the original film studio. His theatrical activities included the exhibition of art in Gdańsk, Warsaw and Kraków theatres, as well as in the course of the years, over the course of days, as well as abroad. The creativity of Andrzej Wajda refers to Polish symbolism and romanticism, it is an attempt to settle with the myths of Polish national consciousness. For his merits for the development of filmmaking, Wajda was awarded many times, among others. In 2000, he received the Oscar Academy Award for his entire work. So much for Wikipedia. Why did I let myself read it? Well, at this ceremony in Krakow, there was no signal, no trace of the state authorities, so that the Minister of Culture or the Prime Minister, not to mention the President, would offer congratulations, wishes. I would ask your marshal to tell the Minister of Culture, the Deputy Prime Minister, that Andrzej Wajda celebrated his 90th anniversary so that if the Minister had not yet done so, he would have behaved as the Minister of Culture should have behaved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u277	Thank you. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u278	Today and for a long time the parliamentary opposition, mainly PO, PSL and Modern, is trying to introduce chaos, disorganization, destabilisation in the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through the notorious raising of supposedly legitimate requests for cancellation of the Minister of the Ministry. The proposal consequently leads to the disorganization of service work in an extremely important preparatory period for several major political, social and religious events which are due to take place in Poland in the near future (NOTA, Congress of Gniezno, WYD). In recent meetings of the ASW Commission, ministers presented plans for action of the Ministry for the coming time, during which we learned both short-term and long-term plans, in different areas and areas of operation of the Ministry. The proposal was based on a number of speculations and misconceptions, such as the assumption that the INS. May had the opportunity (which he probably did) to muffle in his case, and suppose that police uniforms in the absence of a commandant They don't work well enough, which would indicate that the other cops are ignorant and people who don't know what to do on duty. The proposal is extremely patchwork, because the authors glued various threads, mixing them clearly, introducing few substantive elements, while the color of the narrative is successfully dramatized. Among the charges are also those which are particularly surprising. I am talking about the situation in which Minister Błaszczak remains in close cooperation and agreement with Minister Kaminski. The alternative to this plea is the improbable suggestion that it would be better if we were together. They didn't cooperate - then there would probably be a counterclaim that they weren't cooperating. The Minister makes decisions based on a set of data that achieves their best quality. In a situation of changing contexts and new facts, there is a natural need to correct the decision - what has been done. Finally, the final sequence, which is of a character that broadens the perspective. We will remain a total opposition - says the leader of the PO and the practical dimension I have here. Many interlocutors use WYD's argument. The minister's trouble is that he can't speculate and satisfy the public with security clichés. He's got to work, so he's doing it. The question is obvious: Are we to deal with self-regulatory ministers who are able to make decisions, or are they better able to be assailant, anxious, just waiting out a problem, not solving it? The answer is clear. The United Right gave her proof by defending her minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-16-sejm-14-1.u279	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 17 March 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 53]]
