ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other hand, drawn up at Astana on 21 December 2015. Welcome to the Senate meeting of the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Mr Altai Abbulayev; very warmly welcome. [[Applause]] The text of the Act is contained in print No 297 and the report of the Commission In print No 297 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Grzegorz Napieralski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Ambassador! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 6 October 2016 is to give Parliament the agreement to ratify the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other. This year, in August, there was a visit from the President of Kazakhstan, Mr Nazarbayev. This visit, in my opinion, was also a demonstration of willingness and willingness to cooperate bilaterally between Poland and Kazakhstan. The law we are adopting today is a very important act, because Kazakhstan, as the leader of the region, has a strong desire to cooperate with the European Union, as well as with its countries, and especially with Poland. For us Kazakhstan can be a very good partner and economic and political, but we can also learn a lot from each other. This law shows that we can work together on many levels. Economic and scientific and new technologies and solutions, but also, what is important for Poland, raw materials. Kazakhstan, as the leader of the region, is very active in seeking cooperation with the European Union. At the committee meeting, we discussed the role of Kazakhstan in the region, what really is the role of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Poland, what we can do together in these relations for the European Union and for us as a country, what we can do to influence what is happening in the region where Kazakhstan is a natural leader today. And this is in a difficult region, because it has 2 powerful neighbours, on the one hand China and Russia on the other. And yet very skillfully and very consistently it is developing, it is becoming a modern state, a state that aspires to be a state that really fits the whole world. I would like to use the presence of the ambassador today to ask the High House to accept this bill, to support it. That's our committee's recommendation. But I would like this bill to be adopted unanimously, by acclamation, because it requires... [[Because of the acclamation? That's not gonna happen. There isn't.]] [[Unanimously.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know, Mr. Marshal. [[We're voting. There isn't. You can't talk us into what's impossible.]] I know, Mr. Marshal. It was a phrase, Mr. Marshal, very polite and... [[Figuratively.]] Figuratively, of course. ...because there is an ambassador of Kazakhstan here, which is very important to us, I think, and also shows what the value of this agreement is for Kazakhstan itself. I recommend you accept this bill. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Renata Jęch. Minister, do you wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. But there may be questions for the Minister. I'm asking right now... Minister, you're welcome, because the senator wants to ask you a question. You're welcome. I'd like to invite the Minister to the pulpit. Okay? Sorry, we have a habit. And when the Minister comes, Senator Jackowski will ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question: how many Member States have already ratified this agreement and which country is Poland? Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u6	At the moment, we have such information that it has already been ratified by 11 countries of the European Union. We're the next one, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u7	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed with the vote. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendment. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Wait a minute.]] We'll wait a little longer. [[Because it doesn't work.]] [[It's working, it's working.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: It's working.]] It's working. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you, it is working. Everyone's here, right? Please report the results. 70 senators voted, 69 votes against, one abstention from the vote. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the other hand, drawn up at Astana on 21 December 2015. I ask the ambassador to approach me. I'll give you the Senate resolution. [[Applause]] [[The European flag would be useful.]] There he is, Mr. Senator. There he is, you're welcome. If you haven't seen it, then... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] There it is, there it is. Very good. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's been a long time. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: second reading... [[Voice from the room: 8th.]] Well, I've got nine. Excuse me, this is a mistake... Oh, I'd miss the eighth, sorry. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Władysław Biański. I would remind you that this project was brought in by Senator Waldemar Kraska. The draft is contained in print No 165 and the report can be found in print No 165 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, a draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Władysław Jaczyański. At its meeting on 12 October this year, the Commission examined at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and asked the Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. Allow me to read to you the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of Władysław Jaczyański. On January 29, 1917 Władysław Biański, a prominent physician, researcher, etiquette, died. After his studies in Warsaw, Berlin and Prague, Dr Władysław Biański settled in 1883 in Częstochowa, including the head of the Hospital of the name of the Blessed Virgin Mary and the position of the city doctor and doctor of the Warsaw-Vienna Railway. He made a small provincial hospital in Częstochowa a science center Władysław Biański, during 35 years of work in Częstochowa, announced 132 works in the field of medicine and philosophy. He was the forerunner of several fields of medicine, including neurology, cardiology, orthopedics. He wrote several medical textbooks and philosophical works on logic, ethics and knowledge theory. The socialist founded the Częstochowa Medical Society, the Częstochowa branch of the Polish Nationalistic Society, the Beneficial Society for Christians and the Częstochowa Hygienic Museum. He popularized sanitary education, especially hygiene rules, with numerous readings. Władysław Biański is one of the most prominent representatives of the Polish school of philosophy and medicine. He has had a significant impact on the development of Polish medicine, ethics and logic. He also contributed to the development of Czestochowa The city where he worked. He was elected by the inhabitants of his city to the Czestochowain of the Century. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes the year 2017 with the Year of Władysław Poleńska, to pay tribute to the well-deserved doctor who devoted his life to the common good. The Senate of the Republic of Poland asks medical universities and professional self-government to popularize the figure of Władysław Biędzański The doctor's model posture: humanist, researcher, social worker. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Allow me, in a few more words, to introduce the figure of Dr. Władysław Jaczyński, a character who is not really known, but, I think, very outstanding and much significant in terms of Polish medicine. Dr. Władysław Biański, a great doctor, scientist, philosopher, ethicist, educator and social worker, lived at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. It was a period of partitions of Poland and police terror. The possessors oppressed all forms of patriotism and progress. The end of Dr. Pole's life was during World War I. In 1901 he founded the Medical Society of Częstochowa and became its first president. The company established by Dr. Biański works until today, retains its historical name and is currently a branch of the Polish Medical Society. Dr Władysław Biański settled permanently in Częstochowa, where he worked and created his works, significant for many medical specialties, pioneering in the field of medical knowledge methodology and medical logic. He was the basis of modern medical deontology. Analyzing the life and achievements of Dr. Władysław Piałański, one should ask himself why his name has been so little known in Poland and the world over the years. The answer to this question is one and actually very simple: because he was born in a small town in the Duchy of Poznań and spent the rest of his life in a small provincial town of Częstochowa My colleagues at the committee meeting resented calling Częstochowa a provincial city, but it must be said that at that time Częstochowa was such a city. As a result, he worked far away from scientific and cultural centres, during the partitions of Poland and during World War I. So, in such conditions, could he have worked and created modern medicine, philosophy and logic? Turns out, yeah. He was born in 1857 in a small town of Grabów on the Prosna River in the Duchy of Poznań. He grew up in a large family, graduated from high school in Piotrków Trybunalski. Ever since he was a kid, he's had extraordinary intellectual abilities, he's had phenomenal memories, he's been interested in history and philosophy. His mother and sister, who taught younger siblings as well as outstanding men's junior high school teachers in Piotrków Trybunalski, had a significant influence on the development of these qualities of his personality. In 1875 he joined the Faculty of Medicine of the Imperial University of Warsaw. During his studies, he was interested in philosophy and attended lectures in this field. In 1880 he received a doctor's degree. A year later, he accepted an earthly doctor's position in the village of Kcynia in the Kałuska province in Russia, where he worked for 2 years. In 1882, he leaves for Berlin and Prague to complete his education and learn about progress in medical sciences. He attends lectures of well-known professors: Frerichs, Enoch, Westphal, Virchów. His studies in Berlin aroused a passion for scientific work. A year later he returns to the Kingdom of Poland and settles in Częstochowa, a city then neglected, provincial. Even Jasna Góra was then occupied by a Russian garrison. In 1885. He marries Mieczysława Rozenfeld, a beautiful, very hardworking and educated woman who is the first proofreader and reviewer of his work. Dr. Władysław Biański was a titan of work. On arrival in Częstochowa he took charge of the hospital. The Blessed Virgin Mary accepted the position of the city doctor and doctor of the Warsaw-Vienna Railway. He was also a factory doctor and worked in outpatients of the Jute Bag factory in Błeszno and in Motte textile plants. He also conducted private medical practice. They're in the hospital. The Blessed Virgin Mary of the design of Henryk Marconi, a well-known Italian architect, despite the beautiful external classicistic form inside was in a deplorable state. He will quote Dr. Charles Rozenfeld's opinion from that time: it was an old, miserable and filthy shithole that seemed to mock the basic principles of hygiene. At that time, the hospital had 20 beds and led 2 branches of the fever squad and a branch for venereal and scabies. When the hospital doctor's position includes Władysław Biański, the hospital begins to change. The Poles form further hospital units, organizing, among others. First surgical unit in town. During this time there is a rapid industrial development of the city of Częstochowa. Textile factories employ many workers, so the number of accidents at work is increasing, as well as the number of surgical accidents. He's organizing a lab. He's buying the first microscope. He spent many days trying to color the threads of Koch, introducing principles of aseptics and antiseptics. The hospital becomes a place of meetings, studies, consultations, consilies for doctors from the city and region. This activity resulted in publications full of interesting and original clinical observations. After some time, the provincial hospital Częstochowa becomes a scientific centre, a small clinic, whose achievements were compared with the achievements of university centres. As Dr. Charles Rosenfeld described it, the hospital was a temple in which doctors drew not only love of knowledge, enthusiasm and inspiration for work, but also faith and confidence in their own strength. In 1896, Dr. Jajański passed on the hospital management to Prof. Wrześniowski and will devote themselves to scientific work. Despite absorbing occupations and social activity during 35 years of work in Częstochowa, he published 132 works in the field of medicine and philosophy. It can be said that in many fields of medicine it was the forerunner, co-created the basics of only the fields of medicine: neurology, cardiology, internal diseases, infectious diseases, surgery and orthopedics. He wrote many textbooks such as:: Diagnostics of internal diseases, lectures on acute infectious diseases, general issues from medical science theory. He spent a lot of time promoting hygiene. He led a wide range of sanitary education, fighting infectious diseases, creating factory outpatients, fighting alcoholism, and promoting physical culture. In 1917 the city library was established. In modern times, he was called a professor without a cathedral because he wrote his forerunner's works away from university centers. In 1914, the Jagiellonian University offered Władysław Bianyański to take over the cathedral of logic, but due to the poor health of Dr. He died of angina on 23 January 1917. He is buried in the cemetery of Kula in Częstochowa. High Senate, Mr Marshal, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, I ask for this resolution to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[But wait, wait...]] Oh, welcome to the meeting of the president of the Medical Society of Czestochowa, Dr. Beata Zawadowicz. Hello, ma'am. [[Senator Klich has signed up for the vote.]] Welcome to the President of the District Medical Council in Częstochowa, Dr. Zbigniew Brzezin. [[Mr. Klich signed up, and the senator raised his hand first.]] All right. The senator wants to be the first to sign up first, so... [[There you go.]] [[I'll resign to the senator as necessary.]] But order must be. [[But take it easy.]] Senator Klich is the first on the list of speakers. You're welcome. And you, Mr. Senator, should speak up. [[I volunteered.]] It doesn't raise your hand, it just comes in or somehow communicates with the secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Indeed, I signed up for the discussion in order to express on behalf of the Civic Platform Club the concerns associated with the devaluation of the resolutions we are taking. We have the impression that the legislative chamber is turning into a resolution chamber. And it's not about the characters we're going to celebrate today, it's about the number of commemorative, patronage resolutions we're taking. Of course, we are aware that the rules allow us to adopt up to 5 patrons for a given year, but we would like to draw the attention of the entire House to the fact that inflation of this type of draft resolutions... This reduces the profile of individual decisions and it would be worth avoiding for the future. As you can see, Mr. Marshal, this is a general statement not only concerning this resolution which we are currently considering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u11	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable guests! I was gonna talk about something else at first, but Mr. Senator. The cliché provoked me to some polemics. It was a good thing that he was the first to speak, because I can relate to that statement. Well, I would like to point out one thing: that unfortunately, after the traumatic period of the Polish People's Republic and after mistakes, thick lines and other concepts that were implemented after 1989, we have not developed the right attitude towards our national past. We keep working on it, and there's still a need to remind us of characters that for different reasons. Whether in the period of the Polish People's Republic or later, after 1989. They didn't find the place they deserved in our collective memory. And that's the answer to the question of why so many resolutions. I mean, when are you guys gonna be okay? I refer here to the senators of the Civic Platform, having a majority in the Senate, you could also undertake a glorious work of commemorating outstanding figures from our history, outstanding scientists, writers, politicians, generals and commanders, Poles, thanks to which Poland could survive for generations. Dr. Władysław Biański is a representative of the generation... of this generation of Poles, who was raised in the trauma of the January Uprising. He was born and as a little boy... Those huge events took place at the time, tragic for many families. And that's why this generation of Poles was raised in some post-positive ethos, ethos of organic work, work in the fields of culture, science and in many other areas that were socially very important. Dr. Jaczyański is such a classic example of the representative of this generation, a generation that brought into Polish history, to the Polish scientific, cultural and social heritage of a very valuable achievement. And I would like to draw attention to one figure of Dr. Jakanski, which is sort of universalizing this figure, which in fact may not be a figure generally known in the arena of Poland, but is a very important figure. I will mention here this lynx, mentioned by Senator Kraska, namely the literary activity or philosophical activity of Dr. Jaczyański. Well, it should be emphasized that literary work was such a special field of activity, not just as a prominent doctor, scientist, pioneer, or co-pier of many important fields in medicine. He announced 132 work in the field of medicine and philosophy. And according to specialists, a work that did not lose anything in its actuality is a collection of, Thoughts and Aphorisms about medical ethics, from 1889, i.e. more than 120 years ago. Interestingly, Prof. Jerzy Woy-Wojciechowski, a well-known representative of the medical world, at the conference held at the end of the Year of Władysław Piałański, in 2007... Because at that time there was a round anniversary of his birth. And, among other things, in 2008 in Częstochowa a bench and a monument was erected to commemorate Dr. Prof. Woy-Wojciechowski said at the conference mentioned in November 2007: "I was laughed at in my hospital that at every briefing, for nearly 30 years, I was quoting the thoughts of the Pole doctor that I tormented them. But I wanted them to know what a sick person means, respect for a sick person, what it means to have a heart for someone who's being treated. Which means trust in a doctor. All of this gave us the teachings of the Poles. On the other hand, Dr. Beata Zawadowicz, author of the book on Drze Władysławie Poleńska, claims that Dr. Poleński can be called a co-creator of medical deontology. Moreover, in many fields of medicine it was a precursor, co-founded the foundations of the emerging fields of neurology, cardiology, internal diseases, surgery and orthopedics. I think that his contribution to our national intellectual, cultural, scientific heritage is a sufficient reason to adopt this resolution and establish 2017 also the year of Dr. Władysław Biatański. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Senator Richard Majer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Dr. Bianyański is, Dear Sire, Częstochowanien by choice, and hence my short speech, in which I would like to thank you for the fact that today we are adopting Dr. Władysław Bianyański in 2017. Senator Jackowski spoke about the outstanding character of the doctor, and I will say this: we are still looking for identity; the construction of the Polish identity must be based on the figures that created Poland, which built Polishness in various aspects of it. One such character and a role model is Dr. Piałański. Because it was, ladies and gentlemen, a doctor, a philosopher of medicine. His teachings were rightly invoked by my predecessors. He was the author, among others. such words that I would like to quote: "Let us remember that medicine was born of misery, and her godparents were mercy and compassion. Without a philanthropic element, medicine would be the most common, or maybe even a disgusting instrument. This is, my dear fellow country, the message in which the Pole shows a certain attitude of a doctor, a doctor whose attitude we need so much today. It was, ladies and gentlemen, a role model, an ethic. But speaking of the Pole's Dress, it must be said and that in an outstanding way it has contributed to the development of Częstochowa's identity as such. Częstochowa is one of 12 large cities in Poland today, it is a vibrant centre, but at the basis of its functioning there were figures such as Dr. Władysław Jadziański. Therefore, my dear fellow Members, I am proud to be representing the city of Częstochowa in front of you today. The great admirer of this year's adoption, alongside the Health Committee, was Senator Artur Warzocha, who also contributed to the fact that today we are adopting this year. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking for, constantly looking for patterns. History shows us these patterns. It's worth it, ladies and gentlemen, to see it. And I think this room is the kind of place where we should see these patterns and keep our heads low in front of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, too, would like to add my three cents to this debate, also rather touched by the words of Senator Klich. In fact, my previous speaker, Senator Major, said the most important thing, so it's really only gonna be three cents. But as part of what can be emphasized, it is necessary to remind and repeat constantly that the Polish state conducts historical policy regardless of whether it is aware of it or not. It's worse when you don't have that awareness. Thus, the institutions of the state, including us as Senate of the Republic of Poland, conduct historical policy regardless of whether it is understood by us or not. It's even worse if she's misunderstood by ourselves. Therefore, in order not to make such mistakes, we considered as the Senate that we would be actively, with meaning, i.e. understanding things to get involved in this sphere, which concerns reminding about Polish history, of course, so that we would try to use this Polish history to understand our role in the national community, i.e. in the Polish community. And as part of this task, which we have set ourselves up as the Senate, there is a tool which is, of course, one of the fundamentals of the annual resolutions. And we're looking for good keys as part of that tool. I would like to use this statement to remind you of this, and maybe to suggest a reflection on how much these various keys should be called, so that we can make a meaningful use of this tool, which we should consciously apply to influence the historical policy of the Polish state. Well, the figure of Dr. Japanski shows us one of the keys that we've already used. The example is the Chochołowskie Uprising, which was honoured with a special resolution. Today we have a chance to raise, also to the rank of the year, this key. And the key is that we live in a variety of environments, but they all have certain tasks to fulfill within the national community. There is nothing to hide that today the medical community, the wider health community, is one of those environments that needs to be rebuilt from the point of view of the value system that should function in this environment. And that includes the role of the Senate. It's an educational thing. And the character of Dr. Polenski is so interesting and amazing that he combines such two keys in a crazy way. Here we are raising from existence a figure that was known de facto only somewhere in the environments, either regional or professional, to the rank of a certain symbol of life, a symbol of the challenges that the generation had at that time. And he himself, and which challenges today can prove to be insanely close to us also to contemporary dramas experienced by Polish families, Polish women. The evidence is the whole discussion which is taking place in the Polish nation, concerning the border set by the possibility, the ability And these are not the synonymous words of man's influence on the functioning of the surrounding world. And, of course, the key here isn't just the key to building a value system through history. Although this key is of course extremely important. You will see in the following cases, all of which have been examined in the Legislative Commission, that each of these forms There are 6 of them, but unfortunately we'll only have to choose 5, and in advance I say that I very much regret that we can't take all six into account. It gives us the opportunity to consciously put a given person or event on such a scale and in such a horizon that we can positively influence the state of consciousness of the Polish people as positively as possible. On the one hand, the Senate also builds its own authority because it influences the historical policy of Poles, and at the same time, on the other hand, it raises the important events and important figures of them, which were very often forgotten. And the last sentence. Namely for me personally as a historian a very important key and a challenge is And, I hope, it will also be for all of you in the Senate. It's about creating a balance. That's what Senator Jackowski said. This means for many decades Polish society was deprived of the chance to recognize its own national history and in the framework of very often only propaganda plan some people were allowed to be present on a public scale, and other characters, even the whole environment, were, of course, excluded from it. And one of the most important tasks of the Polish Senate for today is to restore this balance. In short, although I do not want it to sound too unambiguous in the sense of dividing the ideological scene, undoubtedly the key, which is very important today, what needs to be understood is the following key: we need to raise today to the rank of symbols and events of characters leading in Polish history, all those who came from widely understood environments based on the foundation of Christianity, because it was precisely this foundation that was omitted during the period of the Polish People's Republic in a special way. Let's not be surprised. Let's not have anyone. for trying to raise this foundation to the rank of the most important in Polish history. I very much appeal to all who are strangers to this foundation so that they have enough tolerance in themselves to allow their possible polemists to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u17	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely speak, but in this particular case I feel so empowered to do so that I was born in Czestochowa, where I graduated from high school and I have to say that the character of Dr. Polenski was the character that was mentioned. It's been said in families, it's said in school. The name of Dr.Japan is called the largest square on the road leading towards Jasna Góra and every pilgrimage heading towards Jasna Góra passes through this square. It is a wonderful figure, worth remembering, above all, I think, in these days, when we talk so much about health care and often regret the health care condition and quality of care for the sick. Dr. Bianyański, as rarely as anyone, has entered into history, you might say, the ethics of doctors, making beautiful rules regarding the relationship between the doctor and the patient. This could be summarised in general in this way, emphasising what my previous speaker, the Senator of Częstochowa, said that in these relations a philanthropic element, an element of mercy, is very important. He tells us today that the condition of health care and care for the sick largely depends on these personal relationships. You can't be a good doctor if you're not a good person. Besides, this applies to many situations, when we talk not so much about the profession, but about calling, situations where direct contact with man and knowledge are important, the mastery itself in a particular profession does not make master yet, does not make virtuoso in this profession, in this vocation. Dr. Biański pointed out that if in the pursuit of the profession of a doctor treated as a vocation to eliminate this element of mercy, a philanthropic element, we would be dealing with a fairly cruel profession, which would consist only in finding sources of living in a situation of quite crisis for the patient, when he is weak, when he is given the will of a doctor, when he is taken care of, when all his fate is entrusted to the doctor. It is worth remembering this nowadays, because very often, in these various mental processes, health care is being reduced to the provision of health care and not talking about the patient, but it is almost said that the subject of medical care is not mentioned statistically, nor is the doctor mentioned, but very often different types of health care teams, different types of companies are spoken of. And the most important thing is a man, the most important is a doctor. That is why I am always amazed at the various kinds of solutions, which unfortunately more and more often occur, that it refers to the existence of different types of limited liability company. I always ask myself if I want to be a patient of a doctor who works with limited liability or a client of a lawyer who works with limited liability. Well, I'm sure none of us would want to use the help of such professionals. They are indeed fulfilling their calling, not merely pursuing their profession. This does not, of course, justify what has been going on so far and what sometimes happens, that you underestimate doctors, that you underestimate health care. The whole dimension of mercy, which should be shown by a doctor, is obvious, but it is the duty of the State to ensure that this doctor has the right working conditions, in terms of technical equipment, all administrative services and decent remuneration. With all this in mind, we must bear in mind what you have just emphasized, Dr. Biański, that the most important is the personal relationship between the doctor and the patient. Dr. Polen's contribution to medical deontology is actually incalculable. This is a person who really deserves this resolution, so I sign under it with both hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out after consideration of all draft resolutions after a block of resolutions concerning the patrons of 2017. Thank you very much. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. Print No 176 and report No 176 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Mark Pęk, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. I will also begin my report by referring to Senator Klich's speech. Too bad he's not in the gym right now, 'cause I think he'd be satisfied this time. Tadeusz Kościuszko is such a character, such a format that the whole report could actually be summarised in one sentence: "The great Pole was and the whole discussion would be closed." There are few such great figures, so famous, so recognized for centuries not only in Poland, but also in Europe and the world. He is undoubtedly a hero of many nations, certainly of the Polish people and of the American people, highly respected also in France. I am particularly honored to be the rapporteur of this resolution. I was her initiator, too. I am a Krakowian, and Krakow is a city especially marked by the presence of this great person. I would like to remind you that it was at the Kraków Market on 24 March 1794 that the famous oath took place, after which Tadeusz Kościuszko took command, became the chief of the insurrection, later called the insurrection of Kościuszko. Also near Krakow, within my senator district, in the district of Miechów, is the village of Racławice, where on April 4, 1794 the famous victorious battle took place in the framework of the Kościuszko insurrection. The remains of Tadeusz Kościuszko rest on Wawel, and there is also his beautiful monument, which dominates the Wawel Hill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, you can't talk about such an important character because there's noise.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because it doesn't matter.]] And I think that, already at the committee meeting, the majority of the members of the committee sitting had just such a belief that this is a figure that there is no doubt that it deserves to be remembered by such a resolution, especially since the warden's death in 2017. The Senate must not fail to participate in celebrations that will be of global, international rank. It just so happened that probably two years ago, UNESCO officially announced that it was the 200th anniversary of Tadeusz Kościuszko's death. So, for example, the anniversary itself entitles us to make such a resolution. But, of course, the basic reason is the character's rank. I am not a historian, nor is it my job to present here some very detailed biographer of Tadeusz Kościuszko. He is well described, very widely in both historical, professional and popular science literature. I would like to draw attention above all to universal values, commonly recognized values, which Tadeusz Kościuszko represents and which is a symbol. After all, his figure is primarily a symbolic figure, which gave many generations to come, especially Poles fighting for freedom, for independence. I think there would be no idea of the Polish Legions if it weren't for Tadeusz Kościuszko's earlier thought. I think it is particularly important to stress here that it was not only a great commander, general, strategist, fortifier, i.e. such a typical soldier, but also a visionary, because in our geographical or cultural circle the first raised the issue of including the entire nation in the fight for the freedom of the state so strongly and understood at that time, with which his fellow countrymen had not yet agreed, that without the inclusion of the broad masses of society we neither will win the war with the Tsar Russia nor will we regain independence later. So surely the echo of this thought sounded later in efforts to regain independence by Poland. It certainly sounded also in the hearts of Polish soldiers fighting during World War II for our freedom and yours on the fronts of the whole world. Tadeusz Kościuszko is commemorated not only in Poland. It is also remembered abroad: in France, Switzerland, the United States. To my heart something particularly speaks this commemoration in a very exotic world for us, namely calling the highest mountain of Australia the mountain of Tadeusz Kościuszko. It is also such an elevation of his ideals, his thoughts symbolically very high. At the committee's meeting, we were basically working out this resolution on the stylistic, linguistic side. Here the senators made a very creative and good contribution. I think this resolution has finally been refined. Maybe I can finally read the contents. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. On 15 October 1817 in Solura, Tadeusz Kościuszko, Chief Insurrection Officer of 1794, Polish and American general, participated in the fight for independence of the United States of America, honorary citizen of the French Republic. It is particularly important to recall that Tadeusz Kościuszko was the defender of the Constitution on 3 May in the war of 1792 with Russia. He was awarded the Golden Order of Virtuti Militari by King Stanisław August Poniatowski for his participation. When the Rzeczpospolita, after the second partition, bowed to disaster, he fought for freedom, allness and independence. As the Supreme Chief of the National Armed Forces during the Uprising in 1794 he was de facto the leader of both the nation and the whole state, especially since he was the first to include Polish peasants in the work of fighting for the Independent, promising them freedom from servitude. Insurrection 1794 against the violence of hostile neighbours fell, but saved the dignity and honor of the nation, and her patriotic and social slogans marked a path to independence in Polish history. The ideals and achievements of Tadeusz Kościuszko bring honor not only to the Polish nation, but also to all humanity, because he contributed to the independence of the United States, for which he received the American Order of Cincinnati from Jerzy Washington and to this day is honored by the American people. The size and historical merits of Kościuszko were appreciated by the UNESCO General Conference, which adopted a resolution in November 2015 on the basis of which the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the death of Kościuszko will take place under the auspices of UNESCO. The Senate of the Republic of Poland establishes 2017 as the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko, so that the Polish people pay due tribute to the memory of their hero, the hero of world fame, and also to indicate to young generations an example of service and dedication to the Homeland and thus strengthen the spiritual condition of the nation. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites the military authorities, educational communities, social organizations, Kościuszko, scouts, cultural institutions and media to organize and support anniversary celebrations, and the general public, especially young people A great deal of participation in these celebrations. I ask the High House to support this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Mark Pak to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Anthony Szymanski, please speak... [[Voice from the room: No, no, now Grzegorz Napieralski.]] Excuse me, Mr. Grzegorz Napieralski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the senator for his very interesting voice, for his good presentation of the great Pole. I mean, who doesn't know this man? In primary school, in high school, in college, wherever we encountered education and science, we learned about great Poles, among others. About the Bones. It was also a good speech because it showed what a character it was and how it was written in history not only of Poland, but also of the whole world. The mention of the highest summit in Australia, which was presented by the senator, was very interesting and showed that the names of the great Poles are actually known all over the world. But I'm also on this floor because I was inspired by the senator's statement about... it's what President Bogdan Klich said. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of appreciating the great people in Poland, but it is necessary to do It is wise, so that anyone who succeeded, who gave his life for his homeland, who helped the poor, the weaker, the injured, who wrote down an important card in the history of Poland, would be appreciated and respected, especially since there were years in which we did not respect these people, we underestimated them. Listening to President Bogdan Klich today, I looked at our agenda. What he said is true. Look at this: in point 8 of our order we have the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Władysław Piałański; in point 9 of our order we have the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of Władysław Piałański. The second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko; at the tenth point... Etc., 11th point, 12th point and 13th point. So whose year is 2017? Does such a wholesale resolution increase the rank of Tadeusz Kościuszko, who was just mentioned by Senator Pęk? Is this great Pole who undoubtedly deserves recognition of the Senate and the Sejm, all Poles and Poles and people in the world... Each of these resolutions is important, each of these resolutions important, but let's try... It is already on our agenda, so that we do not spoil this order, but in the future let us try to make my appeal following Senator Klich's words. To look for such a way that this commemoration is to pay tribute to the great Poles and to the great events that took place in our history, it has been done in a thoughtful way and one that will be worthy of all who deserve it. I do not know whether the wholesale adoption of resolutions has happened once in the Polish Parliament. This is the way, the way to commemorate important events and great people. I have great doubts about this. Thank you very much. [[The session is chaired by Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. I now ask the President of Sagatovska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here in the Senate, the name of this great figure is particularly important. In a few words I would like to draw attention to the Polish aspect of the fate of the great Poles, who for various reasons emigrated, were outside the borders of our country. It is a bright figure for the next Polish emigrants, a wonderful example of how to bloom where... how Poles can beautifully present our nation where they live. On the part of the rapporteur there were beautiful words about the role of Kościuszko in the United States, in France, about the vivid memory of him in Swiss Solura, where there is a museum dedicated to his memory. I think that many generations of Polish immigrants have this form in their hearts and souls. The memory of it always allows them to behave dignifiedly, wonderfully and decently beyond the borders of the state, from Australia to Kazakhstan, from America... on all continents, in all cities, places where Poles come to live. I am very grateful to the Legislative Commission, the initiators of this resolution, that here in the Senate today this name may sound. As the rapporteur said, the Church could be said in one sentence: it was great. He reached where the sight did not reach; he broke what reason would not break, as poet Mickiewicz said. That's what Kosciuszko was like. This is an example to follow for young people, for all of us. The words that came out here today should all be taken to heart. There's so much about the Bones... She recently came to me, to my office, the principal of one of the schools in my territory, who... Professor Żaryn, as she mentioned, had her, so to speak, in her patronage, as she wrote her doctoral thesis on Kościuszka. And this is such a huge volume describing the achievements, the great achievements of one man. This is proof of what a man can do, how a man can rise to such heights as the Mountains of Kościuszko in Australia or other... Of course, it may fall, but we should draw... how to ascend, how to fly above these levels. At this point I would like to pay tribute to Kościuszka as one of the greatest ambassadors of Polishness in the world, because he set the standards of our behavior, our work, work for the Polish people abroad... As thousands do now, millions of Poles in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr... Senator Fedorovich. [[You've made a mistake before, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u26	Fedor's the only one who's right. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly enough, because everything has been said about this great warden and the famous, wonderful Pole. Once, when there was martial law, I did a program about Kościuszka, e.g. in Połańc there are also the street of Kościuszki, and the street of the warden, and the school of Tadeusz Kościuszki. I would like to add an anecdote to this resolution using the fact that I am a senator. Real event: I played at the Old Kościuszka Theatre, and Trela played Poniatowski, but it's not that important, although it was Miciński's play... I had a car, Fiat 127, and I wanted to make myself a wheel, because then, remember, there was a wheel, so I went to the town of Bibice. The man who produced this wheel says, "Mr. Jurk, but I don't have those circles." And I say, "Well, I have to have a wheel, 'cause my car's gonna fall apart." And he said, "Okay, I'll do it to you on purpose." And when I came to pay, he says, "Honey doesn't pay me." It's so unusual to respect and love the warden. I'm giving it as an anecdote, because in fact, in my martial law I had a wheel, and thanks to the Bones, I didn't have to pay for it. Isn't that a little bit of a speech, Mr. Marshal? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There it is.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Bang. [[Cell phone signal]] [[Oh! And they're calling.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voters are calling.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u28	Mr. Marshal, I... [[Voice from the hall: All of Poland.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Fedorowicz took the figure of Tadeusz Kościuszko from the monument for a moment, and I must give it to you, in fairness, that Mr Senator as a Senator from Krakow also at the meeting of the committee, even though he himself is an applicant of one of the commemorative resolutions, at the very beginning he emphasized that Tadeusz Kościuszko is kind of out of competition. I appreciate that, and thank you for that. I would like to say, last but not least, that by reading a little bit about Tadeusz Kościuszka, preparing for this discussion, for this debate, I found an interesting passage showing that there is a certain romanticism in this form so appreciated by us. This is an interesting story about how Tadeusz Kościuszko found himself in the United States, where his great career began. Well, when he was a young man in love with Ludwika Sosnowska, the daughter of the Smolensk voivode and later the chief of the Lithuanian field... Of course, Ludwika's father refused such a mesalian and did everything he could to prevent this marriage from happening. Therefore, the young ones agreed to a kidnapping. Tadeusz Kościuszko tried to kidnap his fiancée, with her consent, but of course it was a crime then and threatened him with the death penalty. However, his future father - in - law was merciful enough to allow him to flee the ocean. Tadeusz Kościuszko took this opportunity to take a cruise to the United States with great adventures, because his ship was crashed. Bones miraculously saved himself from this disaster. Well, so began his great career, the career of the great American-Polish commander. So that it's so much easier to end... But of course this is the form of the greatest format. That's what Senator Sagatovsky was talking about. Thank you for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, you've started a storm. Speaking of anecdotes, I'm... It may not be an anecdote, but I want to say that I happened to be in Australia more than 10 years ago, I went there after my beloved discipline, there was a world championship on a slag, at a beautiful stadium in Sydney. But also to take advantage of this trip to Australia, which lasted for a very long, more than 20 hours, and since I still had a lot of free time, I wanted to visit Australia. And one of the points... When I met different people, if the word 'Poland' was written, it was 'Tadeusz Kościuszko'. And I want to show you that I went to Mount Kościuszko, we ran into her, it's beautiful... [[But on those dross bikes?]] Not on motorcycles, Mr. Senator, we're in line. This is the highest peak in Australia. But it's also wonderfully described, it's shown Kosciuszko, his story... So that, as everyone here said, it is one of those Poles who makes our homeland famous. I was also lucky to finish elementary school just by the name of Tadeusz Kościuszko. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. For the record, Senator Antoni Szymański made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out after consideration of all draft resolutions. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of General Józef Haller. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Jan Żaryn and is included in print No 198, and the report is published in print No 198 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Leszek Piechota, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of General Józef Haller. The Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 to the Legislative Commission on 9 June 2016 with the Year of General Józef Haller to consider this project at first reading. At its meeting on 12 October this year, the Commission examined at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and asked the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the entire text of this resolution here, because I think that this character is worthy of it, and the reproduction of this story is very important to all of us. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of General Józef Haller. General Józef Haller (1873 and 1960) was one of the most outstanding Polish commanders and politicians associated with the national and Christian-democratic camp. His biography involves many extraordinary events, which we celebrate in 2017. 150 years ago, in 1867, the first nest of the Gymnastic Society was created in Austria, in Lviv, a well-deserved Polish youth, patriotic, sport and paramilitary organization, from which Polish scouting and a generation of Polish legionaries grew. General Józef Haller has been one of the creators of subsequent sockets since the beginning of the 20th century, and since 1913 he has been a member of the command of the Falcon and his instructor. During World War I he commanded the Eastern Legion, then one of the Polish Legions' brigades, which included the pupils of the Falcon. 100 years ago in France, at the initiative of the Polish National Committee, the Blue Army was established, led by General Józef Haller since 1918. The Polish soldier was among the winners of World War I. In the same year, the states of the Entents wrote for the purposes of the war a request for the reconstruction of independent Poland with free access to the sea. As Commander of the Volunteer Army, General Haller fought in the prefields of Warsaw in the summer of 1920. In the reborn Poland, he headed the Polish Scouts Association in 1920 and then the Haller Association in 1923. In 1936, this union was one of the initiators of the Morges Front, bringing together a large part of the opposition communities to sanation, united around democratic values. In 1937, on the initiative of the Front, the Labour Party was formed, a Christian-democratic party which played an important role during World War II as the nearest political background of the Prime Minister of the Polish Government and Chief Leader General Władysław E. Sikorski. General Haller was one of the close leaders of this party and was one of the closest associates, also as Minister, General Sikorski. In 2017, we will celebrate the 80th anniversary of the establishment of the Labour Party, representing one of the most important trends of Polish socio-political thought. Since his youth General Józef Haller was a worshiper of Our Lady, entrusted his life to her care. After World War II, General Haller remained, like many others, in exile. At the end of his life, he was going to come to Poland using the water moisturizes to pilgrimage to Jasna Góra. However, Haller was not allowed into his homeland on May 3, 1957. Announcement of the year 2017 General Józef Haller will allow not only the character of the general himself and his loved ones (Stanisław Haller and Caesar Haller, also officers of the Polish Army), but also to focus the attention of Poles on important events and unique organizations, deserved in the history of Poland, known for promoting Polishness and patriotic spirit. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would also like to add information which is not here, about the significant support of Haller's army, the Blue Army, for the defenders of Lviv, in Western Galicia. We all remember the Lviv Eagle, which was also an important card in the history of the Blue Army. I would like to add that my grandfather, Stefan Infante, was an aide to General Haller. Once again, on behalf of the Legislative Commission, I would like to ask the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution attached to it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u33	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. May I remind you that the applicant is Senator Jan Żaryn. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Żaryn signed up for the vote first. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the person who requested to commemorate both General Józef Haller and his numerous works, I take the floor and, of course, want to emphasize not only the uniqueness of this character. This figure is widely and widely known in Poland, therefore there is no reason to prove the importance of his life, his life story, his biography, but I would like to stress once again and to point out that the year of General Haller for us in 2017 will be a great excuse to learn many different works that were caused by the Polish people, which still could not wait for the due memory. In a resolution that you read to Senator Infantry. And you can see that he also read it with personal emotions, for which I thank him very much. It is spoken, among others. about the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon. I'm sure you all know the history of this company very well. The fact is that next year, in 2017, is the one hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the establishment of the first nest of society Lviv nests in Galicia. And so it happens, because that is the Polish history, that so far this great Polish organization has never been able to celebrate its anniversaries. Remember when the century and the 50th anniversary of this organization took place. Every time it was not a time of freedom for Poland. Now's the first chance. This hundred and fiftyth anniversary of the founding of the Gymnastic Society in the ranks of Polish legionaries. But the tradition of the Falcon is, as we know, connected not only with the beautiful cards of the past First of all, the Greater Poland Uprising, because many of its members fought for the integration of this part of the Polish western lands into the reborn independent land. It is the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon that lasts today. And I hope that thanks to the fact that young people continue to go there and want to participate in this tradition, the Falcon will also be able in 2017 to encourage Polish youth to enter into such structures and to read their youth, their sense of functioning in this bloodstream of public life. Of course, General Haller will remain in our memory first of all as commander of the Blue Army, and the Blue Army will remain in our memory as the one who found herself in the right place and time, found herself in France, and therefore found herself part of the armed forces of the ententa who won the war. It is a phenomenon in Polish history that we were not only, as in World War II, on the right side, i.e. the winners, not the winners, but yet, in addition, we were able to use this fact of the existence of the Blue Army with the French, American and British armed forces politically We have become an independent, victorious World War I state, without having yet a territory as a Polish state. It is a phenomenon on the scale of over a thousand years of Polish presence on maps of Europe. And it is worth looking at people who have led to such political success as we deserved after 123 years of captivity. So it is also a kind of lesson of political pragmatism, how to fight, but not to be conquered, how to overcome politically as well. What we failed after World War II, we succeeded just then, among others. Thanks to General Józef Haller. Finally, one more aspect of his activity. As you know, it has evolved in its views. On the one hand, he was very closely associated with the national camp and undoubtedly was identified with this national camp, but he himself very clearly evolved towards this heritage, which seems to be particularly important to us today, the Christian-democratic heritage, the one based on the great papal encyclicals Leon XIII of 1891 and Pius XI of the Polish Pope... Of course, we know that John Paul was not the Pole. II. In any case, it was Achille Ratti, who was called this because he was very close to Poland and Poles because he was the first apostolic nuncio in the reborn Poland. The same Pius XI in 1931 announced the fundamental social encyclical, the Quadragesimo anno encyclical, which became the basis for political, ideal thinking for many, many Europeans, who later became, as you well know, the founders of the European Union. It is these Europeans, de Gasperi, Schuman and many others, with Pope Pius XII as the most important authority for this group of politicians, that generation and these politicians have de facto become founders of the European Communities. General Józef Haller is a figure to which we can appeal in 2017 as a figure which also includes Poland and Poles in this European heritage, how important to us, but provided that it is exactly what de Gasperi, Schuman, Pope Pius XII, developed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Madam President Sagatowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! General Haller is another great immigrant. After the war he chose emigration, we also know why, but we are glad that his ashes rested in the garrison church in Krakow in 1993, when Poland was free. I take the floor, Mr. Senator, Professor Żaryn, because I will allow myself to be polemics, I will not agree with a certain statement, except that there is no need to remind me of a resume here, etc., because it is a well-known figure in Poland. I must say, unfortunately, I regret to say that I do not. This may be the case in the circles of Boy Scouts, the Falcon, etc., but in general in society it is known only by password. If you ask someone closer about this character, General Haller, it is regrettable to say that it is not known. The authorities, enslaved Poland, contributed to this. The rulers worked hard to erase this figure, to erase it from our memory, from our hearts, from our souls. I think that by adopting this resolution, announcing next year also the year of such a great figure, such a great emigrant, we will contribute to the increase of knowledge about the achievements of a great Pole, about such a luminous figure, without the rest of devoted Poland, God, homeland, values. And about these qualities of the spirit of such a great person, we all, including others, will have the opportunity and opportunity to speak at various conferences. I think it's also in the Senate. I would like to say that the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad will also in some way devote the next year to the head of Kościuszka and General Haller. We will think about how to bring these great expats, Polish singers, fighting for the good name of Poland and our nation in some way closer to us, even ourselves. Let's all bow our heads. I, too, humbly bow my head, for I certainly do not know this character as well as the professor, who as a historian, He's doing it professionally. But I think if we all did today so they hit their chest, it would turn out that we have a great task ahead of us, also for ourselves: to get interested in this character, to get closer to her, to get acquainted with her life, to get closer to her creativity. And it will be our great homage, even when alone... Because in order to be strong in someone else, you have to be strong first. And I think we'll be working on it as senators, including. with initiatives and resolutions like today's. I think we will unanimously take it and declare next year also General Haller's Year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u37	Thank you very much. Senator Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before World War I, Galic poverty banished many people from the mountains in search of bread. Many of these people went to North America, the United States and Canada. When World War I brought a change of fronts when it came to political coalitions in Europe, much of the highlanders supported the legions of Piłsudski and joined them. On the other hand, a significant percentage of those who went after bread and found themselves in the United States and Canada responded to Ignacy Paderewski's appeal, which, driving around North America, encouraged the Polish people, Poles, to join the army created in France by General Haller, the so-called. The Blue Army, as it was said here. Because here there are also some personal, private aspects that I would say are related to General Haller, I would like to say that I am also a descendant of the Haller. My grandfather responded to Paderewski's appeal from the United States, reached France and joined Haller's army. By fighting alongside General Haller, he served as a sergeant; he participated in campaigns in which Haller's army participated. In 1939, as a petty officer, he was mobilized to the army over San. He was captured, found in VIII-B Stalag, today's Łambinowice in Opole region. From which the stalagus never came back. I would like to say that regardless of political beliefs, whether it be Piłsudski or Haller Poles, including the Highlanders, they have always engaged in the fight for independence of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u39	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I am very pleased and congratulate the initiators here on the resolution on establishing 2017 as the Year of General Józef Haller. It is an outstanding figure, but for reasons, let's call it political, although it had undoubted merits, unfortunately a little overlooked, both in the interwar period and in the interwar period. For obvious reasons In the period of the Polish People's Republic. I am very pleased that we are restoring the memory of this great and outstanding Pole The notabene came from a very interesting socialized family, which introduced many outstanding representatives into our social, scientific, cultural life, and the man who had also had an extraordinary moment in his life, which was the creation of the Blue Army. And yet the hallers are known for their uniforms in such a blue color. They were one of the important or very important elements of building the Armed Forces of the Republic especially at the tragic moment of the fatal threat of the Bolshevik attack of 1920. But it must also be said that at a later time, the general was not a man who could fully accomplish himself in social life or in military life. As you know, today's town Władysławowo was a well-known resting place called Hallerowo. No one else, like the senator of many terms, Mr.Senator Patron Łukasz Piotr Andrzejewski, comes from a family that has been connected to the Coast since the pre-war period and had close ties with General Haller's family. And here the memory of this character was particularly nurtured. It is also worth adding that General Haller lived in Hallerów. And here I'm gonna allow this family digression. My mother, as a little girl in the 1920s, visited a general in Hallerow with her father, my grandfather. In family memories, he remained as an older gentleman in a simple uniform, but without any general snakes and stars. That's how he met with those who wanted to see him. As we remember, the name Hallerowo was changed in the times of the Polish People's Republic to Władysławowo, in reference to King Władysław IV and his fleet, which he built around this settlement. Or was it the home port of King Władysław's fleet? It was such a clever change, because it is difficult to compare or put on one scale the merits of King Władysław, and on the other the merits of General Haller. However, it was some kind of embezzlement of memory, a conviction to be erased from the memory of an outstanding Pole, an outstanding commander, an outstanding organizer and certainly one of the most famous people in the interwar period, i.e. in the time of the Second Republic, when there was indeed political multi-durture and multi-election. Because these Poles who formed the Second Republic came from 3 partitions, and therefore had some different administrative traditions as well as various experiences, there were also different political traditions and political trends, from which they simply originated, but they had one superior goal, which was to rebuild the most bright, independent Republic of Poland. And in this way, the Senate, taking such a resolution And I am convinced that we will take it, I hope, unanimously, and establishing the year 2017 General Józef Haller will add his brick to the building of our collective memory. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u41	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Szymański made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out after consideration of all draft resolutions. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of the Coronation of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of the Polish Crown on the 300th anniversary of this event. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 221, and the report is published in print No 221 S. Welcome to the Senate meeting: Prior of the Pauline Fathers Monastery on Jasna Góra, Father Marian Waligóra... [[applause]] ...definitor general, father of Mariusz Tabulski... [[applause]] ... the secretary-general, Paweł Przygodki's father and the Prior of the Pauline Fathers Monastery in Warsaw, Father Marek Tomczyk. [[Applause]] Welcome to the other guests, too. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to submit a report of the draft resolution to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u42	High Izbo! Father General! Father Prior! Dear guests! I have the honour to submit a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Częstochowa... [[Voice from the room: This is corrected.]] ...Queen of the Polish Crown on the 300th anniversary of this event Print No 221. On 30 June 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission for consideration. At its meeting on 12 October this year, the Commission examined at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants. She has made amendments to it, for which I thank you by the way, and requests that the Senate adopt the attached uniform draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 as the Year of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of Poland on the 300th anniversary of this event. I would like to briefly remind you of some of the cases taken during the meeting of the Legislative Commission, in which, in addition to the senators, the vice-generate of the Paulin Order, Father Mariusz Tabulski, took part as a guest. First of all, I would like to stress that the senators, the members of the committee, unanimously supported this resolution, pointing out the importance of this event 300 years ago, which was not only religious or ecclesiastical, but also social. It was recalled during the committee's deliberations that ceremonial acts of commitment and vows of the Polish people "Whether it be Christ, whether it be Our Lady, whether it be the holy patrons." They are a very important element of the Catholic faith and belong to Polish history and culture. [[Cell phone signal]] [[Excuse me, please shut up your phones.]] [[I don't know what happened here.]] [[There's a silent switch on the phone, Mr. Senator.]] [[I'm sorry, but I don't know who's calling me.]] [[Then I'm gonna ask you to mute the phone. We're in the plenary room.]] [[Okay, I'm sorry.]] Such acts were referred to in circumstances of particular importance in order to preserve the sovereignty of the state and the identity of the nation. Very often this was how the cry to the heavens for salvation was expressed, and in many cases also how grateful it was for the miraculous salvation. In such situations, too, there have always been promises of moral and social obligations based on the Christian system of values. The most emphatically and officially reigning of Mary was confirmed during the vows of King John Casimir, made in connection with the victorious defense of Jasna Góra, which took place on 1 April 1656 in Lviv against the graces of the famous painting of Our Lady of Grace. King John Kazimierz had previously thanked Our Lady for his victory at Beresteczek, and on the day mentioned in the presence of the papal nuncio Pietro Vidoni and his entire court, including chivalry, senators and clergy, he made royal vows, giving his country to Our Lady in power. At the conclusion of the vows, the apostolic nuncio Pietro Vidoni three times incited the call of Regina Regni Poloniae, the Queen of the Kingdom of Poland, to pray for us. This vow can be considered the official establishment of Mary Queen of Poland. The Royal Marriage Act, as I mentioned earlier, was not only religious but also legal-public. Witold Sawicki Not only an excellent historian, but also a lawyer. In the hearing entitled "Regina Poloniae." The Act of 1 IV 1656 in the light of the law of the Polish state proved that Jan Kazimierz's vows were of a systemic and legal nature. I quote: "It was the actual election of the Blessed Virgin for the monarch, the King-woman. The Act was made legally by representatives of the Republic of Poland: the king, the Senate, all states. Formally, the ordinary election had its legal requirements, such as the convocational sejm, the act of choice in the Warsaw Wola, with the participation of the Primate and the Senate, and the coronation sejm combined with the royal sacrament. In exceptional cases and circumstances, however, the choice of the King-Mary was legal, the more that the king's duties were to save and defend the Republic in a manner which he considered appropriate and effective. It's a noteworthy thing. None of the monarchs of Poland, no president or Sejm of the Republic of Poland have so far questioned or revoked this act on 1 April 1656. Therefore, the Blessed Virgin has real authority in our country by free choice of the king and representativeship of the nation. This is the choice of Our Lady as Queen confirmed the act of coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Jasna Góra on September 8, 1717. And here's a surprising association. Poland fell, but the cult of Our Lady grew, as this coronation proves. I will remind you that this coronation was attended by a king, senators, MEPs, bishops and 200 thousand pilgrims who did not fit within the monastery walls. On the day of the coronation, on the feast of Our Lady the miraculous painting was moved from the chapel to the basilica, where among the sounds of cannon gunshots and singing of the hymn, the archbishop Krzysztof Szembek put the crown first on the Blessed Mother, then the Child. During the Holy Mass, the sermon was delivered by the father of Athanasia Kiersnicki, a Jesuit, a royal minister, calling Mary Jasna Góra the Polish Monarchy. The preacher expressed his hope that under the reign of the Brightest Regent the tears of the clouds, the lamentations would cease, and the salty eyes of the streams would dry. Another preacher, Father Tomasz Srebnicki, Rector of the Cracow Jesuit College, reminded us that Poland had been waiting for this coronation since 1382. In a discreet way he pointed out that Mary should be a model for every ruler, for it can first be said that she was your maidservant and then the queen. Both the royal vows and the act of coronation of the Jasna Góra painting have become a foundation and a model for subsequent similar acts so important to the Church in Poland. John Paul II in the encyclical Redemptoris Mater, writing about the role of Our Lady in the mystery of the Church and the Polish nation, emphasizes her active presence in the lives of individuals, families, as well as entire nations and countries. Following the papal thought, it is impossible to imagine the history of the nation and the Church in Poland without this Marian sign from Jasna Góra, without crowned with papal crowns of the miraculous image of Our Lady with the Child. Paulinini's fathers for the jubilee year connected with the anniversary of the coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Jasna Góra, which started on September 8, this year, planned many celebrations and various initiatives. Among them is the action called the Life Crown of Mary, which consists in taking a specific spiritual commitment and typing it on the back of its photograph. It will then become a diamond in the Jubilee crown of Our Lady. A special application for a smartphone titled "Diamond from the Crown" has also been prepared. By downloading it, you can receive daily Marian thought prepared by various people, priests and laymen, which will allow you to have a deeper relationship with Our Lady. Among many other initiatives... I'll trade you a few. And so on December 8th, the exhibition "Queen of Poland with many faces" will be opened in the Knight's Hall on Jasna Góra. Next year, on May 2nd, the exhibition will be opened in Jasna Góra's Arsenale entitled "Regina Mundi," Regina Poloniae. The Regalia of Our Lady. On May 3rd, the 70th anniversary of the Great Novena will begin before 1966... That is, the 70th anniversary of the 70th anniversary of the 1966 Great Novena. He will be accompanied by a musical event, the International Festival of Sacred Music, the Gaude Mater. August 26th will be the main celebrations of the 300th anniversary Coronation of the Miraculous Picture of Our Lady of Jasna Góra, as well as the 70th anniversary of the beginning of visitation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa after parishes in Poland. Next: September 6th to 8th will take place the Third National Congress of the Holy Rosary, and September 8th will end the anniversary of the 300th anniversary. Coronation of the Wonderful Picture of Our Lady of Jasna Góra. In addition, there will be a conference at the Royal Castle in Warsaw with the participation of the President of the Republic of Poland. In Catholic schools a competition was planned on the topic of the Queen of the Polish Crown 300 years of coronation of the miraculous image of Our Lady. The exhibition catalogue of Our Lady's Regalia, as well as the restoration of other books and information folders about the Jubilee, including the edition of the 1717 coronation reprint. The New Crown of Our Lady's Glory. The National Bank of Poland, Mint Poland, prepares the issue of an anniversary coin or the issue of a 300-year banknote The coronation of a miraculous painting. There will also be an anniversary medal of the 300th anniversary coronation of the miraculous painting, as well as the commemorative stamp of the Polish Post. The patronage of the Jubilee, together with Jasna Góra, will be held by the National Centre for Culture. High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, at the end let me read the text of the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland establishing the year 2017 by the Year of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Częstochowa, Queen of the Polish Crown on the 300th anniversary of this event. 8 September 2017 marks the 300th anniversary of the coronation of Jasna Góra's painting of Our Lady, Queen of the Polish Crown. Archbishop Krzysztof Szembek performed the ceremony of the papal coronation with the crowns of the Holy Father Clement XI on Jasna Góra. This solemn ceremony was similar to the coronation of the kings of Poland, in fact he completed the act of King John Kazimierz, who, after the miraculous defense of Jasna Góra in 1655 during the Swedish Flood on 1 April 1656 in the Lviv Cathedral, elected the Most Holy Virgin Queen and Patron of the Kingdom of Poland. We had to wait until 1717 for the royal vow to be fulfilled. This decision of the Holy See allowed the coronation, for the first time outside Rome, of the image of the papal tiaras and the use of the title of the Queen of the Polish Crown. According to historical sources, the ceremony united in the preparation and coronation of King Augustus II, Members and Senators of the Republic, clergy and nobles; it was a national manifestation of faith. The coronation of the painting became an opportunity for the great thanksgiving of Our Lady of Jasna Góra for her care of the Polish nation, she entered into a series of unprecedented events related to the worship of Our Lady in the Republic of Poland. This state act, recognizing Mary as Queen of Poland, was a reference point for national uprisings, the formation of the idea of freedom and independence in the 19th and 20th centuries. The Jasna Góra Sanctuary is unique among numerous places of religious worship in Poland, and the role of this place for the whole universal Church and for all Catholics is remarkable. The image of the God-parent, honored for more than six hundred years on Jasna Gora, is one of the most important material national treasures in our Homeland. John Paul II spoke about this on Jasna Góra: "It is possible to write the history of Poland in various ways, especially in recent centuries, and can be interpreted according to a multiple key. However, if we want to find out how this happens in the hearts of Poles, we have to come here. You have to put an ear to this place. You must hear the echo of the entire life of the Nation in the Heart of His Mother and Queen! The experiences of the past teach us where to look for support, who is the greatest ally of the Church and of the Nation. What happened between Our Lady, Mother of the Church, Queen of Poland and the Church and Nation in Poland is a kind of covenant. The Jasna Góra Sanctuary is one of the most important places on the map of our country for both Poles and for numerous arrivals of pilgrims and tourists from all over the world. This place is a kind of ambassador of Polishness, bearing a great message today. The monastery-sanctuary complex is also a treasure of national tradition and culture, and staying in it, apart from a strictly religious goal, is always a lesson of history and patriotism. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is convinced that recalling the historical event of 1717 and establishing on this occasion 2017 the Year of Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of the Crown of Poland, will be a significant contribution to promoting the patriotic and religious tradition of the Republic of Poland, will be a lesson of Polish heritage in particular for the young generation. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u43	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Czesław Ryszka to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no calls. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka was the first to speak. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Fathers Paulini! I will not discover anything new, saying that in our country the cult of Our Lady was so closely connected with the life of the nation that Jasna Góra often became a source of salvation and renewal of the state. I will recall John Paul's words here. II, that Mary in her Miraculous Image was as if she had been given to defend the Polish people, while the nation was somehow forced internally to worship her. He mentioned this care of Our Lady over our nation Pope Pius XII, when in his letter of 1 September 1951 to the Polish bishops he comforted the Catholic people abused by the Communists with the words: "Return your eyes to the Mount, from which you will be helped at the right time, to the Mount which your fathers called "Jasna" to the Mount, where the God-parent of the Virgin will come. Your Queen has pitched her tent and where the praying crowd smiles in motherly Her painting. The Holy Father Pius XII, writing about the tent of our Queen, reminded in this letter that in the past centuries the Chapel of Jasna Góra was called the Chamber of the Queen of Poland, in which God-parent, the Queen of Poland, sits as if on the throne, in the hands of an insignia of royal authority, royal dignity, and as if giving an audience to its subjects. Pope Pius XII may have known the text of the sermon by Primate Stefan Wyszyński, who, as a Lublin bishop, said on September 8, 1946 at Jasna Góra, on the day of the consecration of the Polish nation to the Immaculate Heart of Mary: "And the Lord through Mary has shamed our enemies so many times! The history of the Nation has written down a number of general victories for its cause: Grunwald, Orsza, Kircholm, Kłuszyn, Chocim, Beresteczekko, Jasna Góra and Trembowl, Vienna and Parkana in accord with their voice cry out: "The Lord has blessed you in his power that through you he has destroyed our enemies." It was not by their own power that the kings and captains of the Millennial Primate overcame. But by the power of God who raised in their hearts a living honor to Mary; soldiers' hearts of Chodkiewicz and Koniecpolski, Batori and Sobieski, Żółkiewski, Czarniecki, Kordecki They were the hearts that worshipped Mary. I will recall another statement, a little earlier, of the Polish archbishop of Lviv, Józef Bilczewski, who said that God's Providence has placed Our Lady on the historic path of Poles as the guiding and caring star, the victorious queen. In short, the Archbishop Bilczewski wrote that this presence of Our Lady in the history of the Polish nation was rooted in us as nowhere else, because, with the Catholic faith, Her honor entered the core of the nation, became part of the Polish soul, she squeezed her mark on our customs and customs. The most significant vows in the history of our nation, also in the history of the church in Poland, were addressed to the Mark of God. Their fruits are most prominent in the titles given to Our Lady of Jasna Góra. And so John Długosz wrote in the 15th century: "Lord of the world and ours." Grzegorz of Sambora in the poem "Czestochowa" in the middle of the 16th century called Mary Czestochowa the Queen. In the 17th century, the title of the Victory of Hetmanka was commonly coined. But, of course, Our Lady was also given various regional titles, such as "The Nativity of the Podhale" about Our Lady of Humanity, or later "Mrs. Warmia and Mazur" about Our Lady of God, Gietrzwałdzka. The mentioned Grzegorz of Sambora in the 16th century called for Mary Częstochowa to pay a tribute similar to the honor shown to the earthly queen of Poland. Even the Silesian poet Andrzej Schoneus called Mary the Sarmat Patron It's the end of the 16th century. Szymon Starowolski referred to the Blessed Virgin Mary as the Queen of the Kingdom of Sarmatów, combining this title with the image of Our Lady of Czestochowa. However, the most significant title is the title of the Queen of the Polish Crown, and the most important act confirming this title was the royal vows of Jan Kazimierz in Lviv, 1 April 1656. They were not only religious but also socio-systemic. Speaking of reforms of the system, it should be remembered that the king promised in these royal vows, among others. relaxing the country, reforming the Sejm, abolishing the liberum veto. As we know, these reforms have failed, the reform has been thwarted by Members who have been subjected to the intrigues of neighbouring countries. The collapse of these reforms was also decided by the civil war, Rokosz Lubomirski. In a word, the royal gratitude to the simple people expressed in the royal vows in Lviv for their help in defending their homeland during the Swedish Flood, well, it was not fulfilled. It can be said that John Kazimierz died four years later with conflicting feelings, alone in his pursuits, abdicated in 1668, went to France and died bitterly lost. However, it is a fact that the royal vows of Jan Kazimierz gave us for more than 100 years the survival of statehood, and then during the period of the loss of independence, reference was made to the Marian reign of the Queen of Poland, which allowed us to survive the dark night of partitions. Returning to the event of September 8, 1717, the coronation of the image of Our Lady of Jasna Góra, and at the same time to our resolution establishing the year 2017 the 300th anniversary of the coronation of the image of Our Lady of Jasna Góra, I would like to stress that this was the first coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Rome. The wonderful Częstochowa icon has been... [[Mr. Senator...]] ... adorned with crowns sent by Pope Clement XI. [[Mr. Senator...]] We needed this victorious coronation very much, because the times of the collapse of the Republic of Poland, the loss of independent existence, were coming. But even at this tragic time, Our Lady did not cease to reign. Although she was then the queen of people without their homeland, she appeared on the banners of the insurgents, on the gutters and on the medals of those sentenced to prison, sentry or homelessness. Our Lady of Jasna Góra was then the queen of the time of fighting, breaking shackles, returning to faith. She officially recognised this fact by the Holy See, allowing 14 January 1920 to include in the dioceses the title of Our Lady of Poland in the Loreta litany. On 12 October 1923, he received a special liturgical feast and, since 1930, his own mass and his own office. This was an important confirmation by the Holy See of the importance of Jasna Góra as the most expensive place for the hearts of Poles. It should be emphasized with all the power that it is impossible to understand Polish today without this place of special worship of Our Lady. It is also impossible to build a future without having a serious look at our Christian past. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Major.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable guests! There is no Polishness, there is no Poland without Jasna Góra. These are, ladies and gentlemen, statements that support each other and co-exist. Jasna Góra was a very important element of our past, witnessed our independence, freedom and was a place where Poles were always free. Jasna Góra is very important as a place and today, because there each of us can follow, can confide in his problems, with his concerns. And Jasna Góra will be such a place in the future, because it is, Dear Lords, a kind of status quo of our reality, our being. This is the basis and element of patriotism and national identity. I'll be very brief. Venerable Fathers, as a Pole, as a Senator of the Republic of Poland, thank you for Jasna Góra in Częstochowa, thank you for your presence in Poland, thank you for your presence in our hearts! I recommend your kind prayer the work of this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Fathers Paulini! Indeed, this is an important resolution, especially since 2017 will be very rich in various important events The events that are usually cited. I will remind you that it will be the year of the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, it will be the year of the first Masonic lodge in London in 1717, it is also the year of the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, but it is also the year of the Fatima apparitions in 1917. So we see that the various anniversaries are in this pantheon of 2017. At the moment, we are leaning on a resolution that actually concerns the quintessence of Polishness. Why am I saying this? Senator Czesław Ryszka very carefully presented here the development of the cult of the Queen of the Polish Crown, which developed very consistently. I will remind you that the oldest Polish national anthem is a God-father. This is a song dedicated to the Virgin Mary. So this Marian tradition in Poland For which the Catholic Church in Poland is criticized... Because there was a moment when it was thought that it was such, well, folk Catholicism, that kind of formulation appeared. But today we see what is the official teaching of the Church, the doctrine of the Church, the position of the Church and the consequence of the Church as regards recognition of the ceremony of the Queen of Poland Which celebration is celebrated not by chance on 3 May as a central feast. This is the crowning of the entire chain of historical-religious events that have caused us to be at this point in our lives. I would like to draw attention to the character today a little forgotten, namely the figure of Archbishop Bilczewski, Archbishop of Lviv, St. Archbishop Bilczewski. He was one of the postulators of the cult of the Queen of the Polish Crown, he was also the initiator of the fact that a special stained glass was placed in the Lviv cathedral. We had an opportunity with senators who visit the Lions, watch it. At the moment, the restaurant works are underway in the Lviv Cathedral. This is where this wonderful image is, before which King John Kazimierz made his famous vows on April 1, 1656. The decision of Archbishop Bilczewski's window in the Presbytery of the Lviv Cathedral was developed and one of them was dedicated to the Queen of the Polish Crown. It was some kind of personal attention by the great St. Bilczewski in the character of the Blessed Virgin Mary. After all, it was not by chance on 29 November 1908, the Holy Father Pius X, also the Holy Catholic Church, allowed the constant call of the Queen of the Polish Crown for the Diocese of Lviv and Przemysl to be entered into the Loreta litany. In turn the second such admirer of the cult of the Queen of the Polish Crown was St. Józef Sebastian Pelczar, the bishop of Przemysl, who was probably not yet a Przemysl bishop, but was the rector of the Jagiellonian University. In any case, work on expanding the cult of the Queen of the Polish Crown was also ongoing in Krakow. And this whole sequence of events has led us to believe that we are at the moment we are working on this resolution. It is also worth recalling the words of another great figure of the Church in Poland, the universal Church, also a great Pole, a great patriot, here I think of the great son of Silesian land, Cardinal August Hlond, who, while dying, spoke famous words and died in 1948, so during the black night of the communist occupation in Poland, when it seemed that the situation of the Church, faith, tradition, Polishness is deadly threatened. Then Cardinal Hlond spoke his famous prophetic words, he said it in Latin, I will say it in Polish: "Don't lose hope." Don't lose hope. But victory if it comes It will be the victory of the Blessed Virgin Mary. These words, interestingly enough, were also often quoted by another great man, the hierarch of the Church and the great Pole, the Primate of the Millennium, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the author of the weddings of 1956, which, if I remember correctly, I think in Komańczyk they were edited during his internment. He quoted them during the great event which initiated the novena before the anniversary of the millennium of Poland's baptism, he often quoted them. Also the Holy Father John Paul II often quoted Cardinal Hlond's words as these profesional words... Those who don't believe, who have distance, can get out of this... They've got a distance right now. But there are mysteries that we just can't say much about. Those words were also quoted. It is also worth to say that on 1 April 2005, the day before the Father's departure, on the eve of his death, another great man of the Church, a great Pole, the greatest of all Poles, St. John Paul II sacrificed and sacrificed new gold crowns for the image of Our Lady of the Queen of Poland. I think these are the signs of time, which must also be remembered in public space. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable, Great Fathers Paulini! We had already had an opportunity to listen to many wonderful speeches by my predecessors, starting with the speech of the rapporteur, Mr Czesław Ryszka, who brought us closer to the idea of adopting this extremely important one, I think it is important not only for us Poles living in the country, but also for Poles living outside his borders, a resolution. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reminded us of an important historical feature. It is also very important to have a message that follows from Senator Richard Majer's speech, as I have often been, as well as a man who, like most Czestochowanie, treats Jasna Góra as his own church, can be said as his second church. And so it is in Czestochowa. Practically every occasion when you visit the chapel of Our Lady of Czestochowa or when you are on Jasna Góra, no matter how many pilgrims are presently in Częstochowa and on Jasna Góra, you can always meet your friends there. This is especially the case when Sunday evening Mass is celebrated before the Jasna Góra roll call. These are always very nice meetings. And every one of us, every citizen of Czestochowa, is accompanied by such reflection that it is here that we are truly free, that we are there together, that we are representatives who live there, in Czestochowa, this great national community, which are both Poles living in the country and scattered around the world. I would like to share with you a few reflections about those Poles who live outside the country. Because I work as a senator in the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad, led by Senator Janina Sagatowska, I often visit our compatriots who form different Polish communities outside Poland. Always during these meetings, during visits in these communities, in Polonia groups, one element is inseparable, always lasting and always recurring The image of Our Lady of Częstochowa, which is presented in the wonderful icon of the Jasna Góra painting. I have already had the opportunity to share many times with our fellow countrymen, whom we visit abroad, a reflection that accompanies me always on this occasion. Namely, being among Poles on a foreign land, looking at them, talking to them, staying among them, when they share their problems, joys, and often also show me the success of their Polish organizations, I always feel at home, because, first, I am among them, and secondly, there is always the present image of Our Lady Częstochowa. I think that apart from the fact that it is an element of our Catholic faith, which dominates in Poland, which has a special position in Poland and which is so important to all of us, this image, this icon of Our Lady of Jasna Góra is permanently inscribed in our cultural code, accompanying Poles for centuries. And that's beautiful. And that's great. It is also something that unites us as a nation, can integrate us, and which often has a very positive effect, tones up various unnecessary conflicts and disputes, in one sentence, it accords us as a nation, reminds us of important matters, of imponderabilies, of things not only temporal, but also of those that have a metaphysical dimension. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the initiators for adopting this resolution. I am not only addressing your senators who worked in committee meetings, because I would also like to thank you with all my heart for this initiative. As Senator Majer said, both as a Pole and as a Czestochowan, as a senator representing the city of Częstochowa in the Senate Paulins' fathers. I believe that many initiatives will remind us of this during the 2017 celebration. This will help to strengthen morally and bring about a great spiritual renewal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable guests! We know, of course, that Jasna Góra is the spiritual capital of Poland. We exchange it whenever we talk about Polish capitals: Gniezno, Płock, Kraków and Warsaw. Jasna Góra is located in this long series of Polish capitals, because it is, was and will be the spiritual capital of Poland. I will return to this topic in a moment, but it is also worth knowing and remembering that... I was lucky to have read the chronicle of Jasna Góra, in which for some decades after the war, more paulini fathers recorded important events from the current Peerellian reality. It is worth noting that Jasna Góra is the spiritual capital of Poland, but also one of the most important places associated with Polishness, both in the universal Church and around the world. If we are looking for symbols and signs, Jasna Góra is one of the most important places that define our Polishness. It can be said that it defines this Polishness inwardly, i.e. in our national community, but also outwardly. We Poles are perceived by Jasna Góra prisms. I was lucky to be in Rome recently. As you know, in front of St. Peter's Square, there is a pilgrimage centre in Pius XII Square. It is a pilgrimage centre which includes all the most important shrines of the universal Church, and the invitation to this center is 3 words: These are the most important Marian shrines in the universal Church which define the identity of the universal Church. And we as Poles are also included in this identity of the universal Church. This is the great spiritual capital of Poland, which we all, especially the senators, should see against the background of Polish history, a story marked by two very important signs. One sign is our patriotism, our patriotism very strongly embedded in the insurance tradition, which is one of the most important constituent elements... Insurgent patriotism is closely related to Jasna Góra. As historians, we associate it with a series of events that begin with the bar confederation of 1768 and end in the times of Our Lady Częstochowa, as the spiritual guardian of our national needs, accompanied all the most important events from this entire great period of Poland's history, because without Our Lady we would not survive this period and these struggles. And all those Poles who took on this struggle knew about it, and thanks to their determination, they won thanks to patriotism. So Kazimierz Pułaski, who will lead the confederates of Barski... The Bar Confederation will become We can read about it in beautiful Polish songs The beginning of the shed blood, which will oblige generations to continue to shed blood so that Poland regains its independence. It is there on Jasna Góra that is an obligation to Poland, which is to regain sovereignty first and then become a country again, that has been undertaken. This is a commitment that while we are Poles, we will fight for this Poland. Jasna Góra, ladies and gentlemen, is the spiritual capital of Poland also in the context of viewing us as a national community, which in fact never ceases to be, in colloquially speaking, under construction. I mean, there isn't a point where we can tell ourselves that creation, building, the existence of a nation is a finite work. This is a process in which we function from generation to generation. Of course today we see this especially because we have the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. In this regard, today we are particularly reminded of... When we can walk away from this present reality and afford a moment of reflection, we realize how many of our generations owe to Our Lady in the image of the Black Madonna on Jasna Góra and how strongly we are inscribed in this image, without which in Polish lands, but also in the whole world, there would be no Poland and Poles today. I am referring, of course, to this short memory, not to the one connected with the 1050, but to the memory of the 50th anniversary, the period of the Great Novena and the Millennium of 1966. This time of study of Primate Stefan Wyszyński is a time on the one hand culminating in a decades of tradition of enlisting a modern nation in the image of Jasna Góra and Black Madonna. Since the end of the 19th century, this great process of building a modern Polish nation has been underway, and part of this process is the great presence of Poles on Jasna Góra. Although Warsaw's hiking pilgrimages are time since the beginning of the 18th century, it can be said that they set this march, this great march of subsequent generations of Poles on Jasna Góra After all, these are the ones that have occurred especially since the end of the 19th century and then throughout the 20th century, pilgrimages of the state and profession, where every state, every Polish profession... Therefore, every service of Poles in public space was carried out by Our Lady of Częstochowa, because every state, every Polish profession wanted to find itself there through its representatives. Of course, during the Great Novena period especially, but let us remember that also during the twentieth anniversary of the interwar period there were wonderful pilgrimages of husbands, wonderful pilgrimages of women, wonderful pilgrimages of priests. There was a wonderful pilgrimage from 1936... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. ...who are the young people then, in 1939, will fight. So this tradition of building a Polish nation, which is very clear in us, the tradition of the constant process of forming from generation to generation of Poles... Thanks to Black Madonna, thanks to this image we are Poles. And if we focus on this long-term life of Our Lady of Częstochowa in Polish tradition, these celebrations in 2017 will also be a historic act that is part of this great process of building a modern Polish nation. Poland's modernity is Marianity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to add to this interesting speech by Professor Żarin, who has, as always, brought us beautifully into historical matters, that in 1980 the Augusta Pen Agreement, on which the image of Our Lady was represented, signed Lech Wałęsa, and in the Senate of the United States next to... [[John Paul. There was an image of John Paul on the pen.]] Well, if I'm wrong, I'm sorry, but he's always got the Mother of God in his lap. And it is important that we speak of this at the same time, because this love for Our Lady... Lech Wałęsa always refers to Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of the Polish Crown... [[He had the Mother of God in his lap.]] ...and I think it would be good if he heard today that we thanked him for it. [[He didn't listen to the Church's teachings.]] There's room on the platform, you can tell.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I also inform you that Senator Kaminski made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In fact, the Senate could already proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out after consideration of all draft resolutions. We proceed to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the announcement of the year 2017 with the Year of Bolesław Leśmian. I would like to remind you that this project was submitted by the Committee on Culture and Media and is included in print No 237 and the report "In print No 237 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I once had the privilege of introducing the Year of Wyspiański. I was a young envoy then. It's not age, it's internship. It was 2006. I'll try to do it the way I did. Twelve brothers, believing in dreams, examined the wall from the dream side, And outside the wall, the voice cried, the girl's voice was lost. And they loved the voice of the sound and the eager conjecture of the Girl, And they guessed the shape of their mouths after the singing of grief dies... They were talking about her: "Luka, so there it is!" And they didn't say anything else, ♪ And they've driven the whole world away ♪ And the world was puzzled at the moment... They kidnapped the hammers in the hard hand and took them into the walls to smash with a tickle! And she didn't know a blind night who was a man and who was a hammer? O, let's repent of the cold rock before the death of the rust girl! Yeah, hitting the wall, 12th brother to eleven other things. But it was futile of their efforts, the futile arms of the coupling, and he seduced! They gave their bodies to the breeze of the dream, which tempted them. The breasts break, the bone cracks, the hands rot, the faces fade... And they all had one day and one night for ever! But the shadows of the dead, my God! They didn't let the hammers out of their hands! ♪ And only another time goes by ♪ And only a hammer calls differently... And it's ringing in front! And it's backwards! And above every reverberating sound! And she didn't know a blind night, who's a shadow and who's a hammer? O, let's repent of the cold rock before the death of the rust girl! Yeah, hitting the wall, 12th shadow to eleven other things. Yeah, hitting the wall, 12th shadow to eleven other things. But the shadows suddenly run out of strength, and the shadow does not resist the darkness! And they died again because you never die enough... And never enough, and never as much as the one who dies!... And the contents vanished. And the trail went missing. And the novel about them is over! But brave hammers Oh, my God! They didn't give in to grief! And by themselves they fought against the wall, roaring bronze in themselves! They roared into the darkness, glowed in the glow and dripping out of the human race! And she didn't know a blind night what a hammer was when it wasn't a hammer? O, let's repent of the cold rock before the death of the rust girl! Yeah, hitting the wall, the 12th hammer to eleven other things. And the wall fell, a thousand echoes shaking hills and valleys! But beyond the wall, nothing and nothing! Not a soul, not a girl! No one's eyes, no lips! And no one in the flowers of fate! ♪ 'Cause it was a voice ♪ ♪ And it was just ♪ The voice, and there was nothing, except the voice! Nothing but crying and grief and darkness and ignorance and loss! That's the world! Bad world! Why is there no other world? In the face of lying dreams, in the face of the lost wonders. Powerful hammers fell into the government as a sign of meticulous hardships. And there was a terror of sudden silence! And there was a vacuum all over the sky! [[Why are you mocking me when this vacuum isn't mocking you?]] Why are you mocking me when this vacuum isn't mocking you? Thank you, Senator Borowski. Look, this poem has been with us, my generation since we were young. Of course, that's the subject of the theater school lesson. Someone wrote so beautifully: this poem always gives me the creeps, I don't know why, but it's brilliant, just like that. The point is that when we celebrate a historical event or worship a character, it's usually in the resolutions that we prepare, it's about some artist, some great poet... This time the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution on 7 July to the Legislative Commission on the announcement of 2017 with the Year of Bolesław Leśmian. At its meeting on 12 October 2016, the Commission examined at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants and requested that it be adopted without amendments. I'll read it. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the announcement of the year 2017 with the Year of Bolesław Leśmian. Bolesław Leśmian is one of the greatest poets, not only in the 20th century, but in the history of Polish literature. His creation derived from symbolism is an original, separate and recognizable poetic world. The poet was born on 22 January 1877 in Warsaw, where he also died on 5 November 1937. He came from a assimilated Jewish family, graduated from law studies in Kiev, was also associated with Iłża, Hrubieszow and Zamość. From 1933 he was a member of the Polish Academy of Literature. His work was not fully appreciated until the 1960's. Leśmian was the author of four important poetic volumes (a separation court, a Łąka, a shadow drink, a forest plot), poetry dramas and prose, including literary fairy tales. His works were translated, among other things, into Russian, English and Hebrew, although the unique poetic language with its boldness to create neologys is not easily translated. Part of Lesmian's work (such as Sesame Klechdy and Sinbad Sailor's Adventures) is addressed to the child's audience and thanks to the new theatrical editions and adaptations it speaks to today. The poetry of Leśmian contains what in human pursuits is the most selfless desire to know and create widely understood. This poetry affects the final issues, it talks about the essence of humanity, and finally about the most basic and intimate relationship between people, which is love. In connection with the 80th anniversary of the death of Bolesław Leśmian and the 140th anniversary of his birth, the Senate of the Republic of Poland announces the year 2017 as the Year of Bolesław Leśmian. Let his poetry full of questions about the most important issues accompany us in everyday life, stimulates imagination and be a cause for pride in Polish culture. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to add at the end of my speech that I watched a beautiful performance based on the adventures of Sinbad Sailor Bolesław Leśmian in Opole Theatre, where six stage designers for each individual painting created their work. These were outstanding stage designers, among them was my wife, Elizabeth Krywsza, as well as Janek Polewka, Małgosia Treutler, de Ines, etc. In my theater, of course, we have also prepared a performance of Leśmian for children. In conclusion, I would like to thank Professor Czabanowski-Wróbel, who is a professor of Jagiellonian University, Polish Studies, and who wrote books about Leśmian. I thank her very much for helping me prepare this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may report for a maximum of one minute to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out after consideration of all draft resolutions. [[The senator here quotes Leśmian, so I'm counting on him to vote for Leśmian.]] We begin to consider item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Władysław Raczkiewicz. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 279, and the report is published in print No 279 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission of 12 October 2016 considered at first reading the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, including myself, and introduced an amendment to this proposal, for which I thank you very warmly. The Commission proposes that the Senate adopt this uniform draft resolution annexed to the report. I will read you this draft resolution in a moment, but of course I will go ahead with this brief, hopefully, commentary. Namely Władysław Raczkiewicz, President of the Republic of Poland in exile... In 2017, specifically in June, the 70th anniversary of his death will pass. Without a doubt, he is a character who specially involves us, the Senate and the senators, because Władysław Raczkiewicz himself was also a senator in the Second Republic, a marshal of the upper chamber of the Senate. It was the highest function he had before the war. And it was this authority that possessed as a marshal of the Senate that caused it in a very difficult The most difficult period of our history in the 20th century has been appointed President of the Republic of Poland in exile. It was the moment when we lost the war of 1939, the moment when the authorities of the Republic were de facto interned in Romania. President Mościcki had to appoint his successor in accordance with the 1935 Constitution, called the April Constitution. It wasn't his first choice. The first election was General Bolesław Wieniawa-Długoszowski, but due to his failure to accept that verdict by the Polish elite on exile, the second candidate, namely Władysław Raczkiewicz, was appointed the successor of Mościcki and served as President of the Republic in these very difficult times, in 1939 and 1947. Władysław Raczkiewicz is a very important figure for us as senators. He is also a very important figure because of one of our most important prerogatives, but also responsibility. I am referring to the prerogative which involves our Senate, the special mission of connecting Poles in the country with Poles located outside our borders in the east and in the west. Władysław Raczkiewicz was the President of the Republic of Poland, remained in exile and continued to represent the government in exile with his highest office, but also, as you know, before the war he was the President of Worldpol, that is, the institution which was established by the pre-war government of Poland to represent the interests of Poland, but also to connect Polonia with the country, with the Polish reborn. If we want to refer somewhere to the relationship between the independent state and Polonia scattered around the world, then our thoughts and some kind of suggestions on how to solve difficult problems, often concerning the relationship of the country Władysław Raczkiewicz may be for us... He was an important person who tried to represent the Polish state in relations with Polonia and at the same time tried to make this Polonia very diverse As it is today, so and then From the so-called: Economical after Polonia, which returned, like the soldiers of Haller's Army mentioned today, to the United States, because there was their second homeland... The idea was to tie all these people to the Polish reborn. Today we are also trying to connect with Poland reborn all those Poles who are outside our borders, hence it seems that the Senate is, in a special way, obliged to celebrate Władysław Raczkiewicz and to make 2017 his year. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll read this resolution. It's short enough, I hope I can fit in my 10 minutes. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the year 2017 by Władysław Raczkiewicz. On 6 June 2017, the death of Władysław Raczkiewicz (1885 and 1947), Polish politician, in 1939 and 1947 of the President of the Republic of Poland in exile, took place seventy years after the death of Władysław Raczkiewicz. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, wishing to honor this one of the most important figures in the Polish politics of the first half of the 20th century, establishes 2017 as the Year of Władysław Raczkiewicz. Władysław Raczkiewicz, a lawyer, a participant in World War I and war 1920 with Bolsheviks, held many important political and social functions in the interwar period: voivodeship, Minister of Interior, Marshal of the Senate, President of the World Union of Poles from abroad. He was seen as a stateman. However, the most important office, the President of the Republic of Poland in exile, came to him in the tragic period of World War II for Poland and the first years after the war. One of the reasons why he was nominated as President was his very good contacts with Polonia, which began during the term of the Marshal of the Senate, the House of Parliament taking care of Polonia. Thanks to his resignation in the so-called Paris Agreement, part of the President's powers for Prime Minister Władysław Sikorski were made possible by difficult cooperation between the so-called footballers and the Morges Front and the credibility of the government towards Western allies of the Republic. He tried to alleviate conflicts between Polish power centers in the West. He appealed to Pope Pius XII for interest in the fate of Poles and Jews, victims of German repression, as well as to Western Allies for support of the Warsaw Uprising. He witnessed tragic events for Poland, such as the death of Władysław Sikorski in the Gibraltar disaster, the withdrawal after the Yalta conference by the great powers of recognition of the government of the Republic of Poland in exile or the creation of folk power in Poland. During this difficult period he was a symbol of Polish statehood for Poles in Poland and abroad. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites universities, schools, social organizations and media to popularize the figure of this stateman in the Year of Władysław Raczkiewicz, a policy of difficult times. Let his steadfast work for Poland during the period of peace and war, his ability to take on the greatest challenges become a model for future and present officials and politicians and all those working for the common good. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I would like to conclude by thanking the former Member of Law and Justice, historian, Dr Zbigniew Girzyński, who has been very supportive and helpful not so much in the editorial work but in the work on the content of this draft resolution. I would also like to thank the authorities of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, which have already been very much involved in the celebration of the Year of Władysław Raczkiewicz. I'm sure there'll be a lot of events related to this character. They will take place everywhere in Poland, because this character really deserves it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. [[No one signed up.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be carried out after a short break. I'm declaring a recess until 1:10 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 53 to 13 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u60	I'm reopening the session. Welcome, Minister. We are about to vote on the draft resolutions of commemorative resolutions on the establishment of 2017 of a person or event. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 Rules of Procedure of the Senate may adopt no more than 5 such resolutions. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Władysław Biański. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 165 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted against, 67 against, 7 against, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Władysław Jaczyański. I would like to invite the president of the Medical Society of Czestochowa, Dr. Beata Zawadowicz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u61	Thank you very much to the senators and invite you to the celebrations in Częstochowa, which will take place on 6 and 8 April 2017. We will be very pleased to welcome you. Thank you for this wonderful sealing of this noble anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the death of Dr. Władysław Poleński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u62	We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by Tadeusz Kościuszko. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 176 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 in the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of General Józef Haller. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform draft resolution in print No 198 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 78 votes against, 3 against and 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of General Józef Haller. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of the Coronation of Our Lady of Częstochowa, the Queen of the Polish Crown on the 300th anniversary of this event. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 221 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 86 senators, 74 votes against, 5 against, 7 abstentions. [[Applause]] [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has passed a resolution... [[Masons, Masonry.]] ...to establish the year 2017 as the Year of the Coronation of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of the Polish Crown on the 300th anniversary of this event. [[Masoneria's nothing to worry about.]] I would like to invite the Prior of the Paulin Father's Monastery at Jasna Góra, Father Marian Waligóra, and the Prior of the Paulin Father's Monastery in Warsaw, Father Marek Tomczyk. You're welcome. [[Everybody up.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u63	I would like to thank you very warmly for recognising the role of Our Lady, but also Jasna Góra, in the history of Poland Both the spiritual one and the secular one. I believe that this year will also contribute to the spiritual growth of Poles, and to the revival of national and patriotic consciousness. God bless you. We promise to pray for the Senate on Jasna Gora. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u64	We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the announcement of the year 2017 with the Year of Bolesław Leśmian. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 237 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 43 against, 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's not right.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not adopted a resolution and will therefore terminate the proceedings in this matter. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Władysław Raczkiewicz. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. [[Discussions about the room]] Mr. Marshal, please be quiet. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 279 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 85 senators voted, 70 for, 3 against, 12 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2017 with the Year of Władysław Raczkiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare... Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u65	The Joint Meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health on the examination of the Law on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u66	I'm announcing a 3:00 p.m. break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 21 to 15 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u67	I'm extending the recess until 4:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 01 to 16 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[There's an objection.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to the fact that, as of now, in exceptional proceedings over this law, a nomen omen with the title "For Life." It is a strange situation in which laws are processed in such a short time, and it is really connected with the lives of Polish citizens. Deeper Reason This was the result of the joint work of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health The fact is that the law has not been consulted in any way. Moreover, the government announced, and he was supported by the esteemed Senator Rooster, that not only will there be no consultation, but perhaps in the future there will be no discussion at all. [[Lie!]] That was the atmosphere, that was the feeling, I'm sorry... [[I didn't say anything about the future.]] Then, Mr. Marshal... [[Provocation!]] ...it is recommended, however, that the law, which speaks of life and is intended to work for life, be subject to a wider consultation than in what it has imposed upon us so-called. Senator group. Thank you very much. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is this group?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u70	I'll tell you from the start. I propose that Mr. Rulewski speak for himself because there is no word that there will be no consultation in the future. Let him remember earlier 8-year-old governments and what decisions were made at that time. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[What are you talking about?]] And today, when you make decisions that are good for families, it's all criticized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. We are voting on my proposal. [[But what is it?]] [[There's an objection.]] [[Yeah, there's an objection.]] There is opposition and therefore we are voting. Who's in favour? [[But for what?]] [[For what?]] For the proposal I've made... [[What's she like?]] ...in favour of completing the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 68 senators voted, 44 against, 24 against. [[Voting No 9]] I find the Senate has accepted my offer. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families. The text of the Act is contained in print No 315 and the committee's report In print No 315 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur, the joint Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Joint Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the subject of which was the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families. Dear Sejm has passed a law on the support of pregnant families and families. The primary objective of this law is to support families and women with children who are born with disabilities. The Act sets out the powers of pregnant women and families to support access to healthcare services and policies for the benefit of the family. What is most important, Dear State, this support is provided by providing access to information on support solutions for families and pregnant women, providing access to prenatal diagnosis for pregnant women, providing adequate healthcare for pregnant women, childbirth and childbirth, with particular emphasis on complicated pregnant women and in the event of maternity failure. Support also includes access to guidance on family support solutions, to single birth benefit for a child who has been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disabilities or... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...an incurable life-threatening disease that occurred during prenatal periods or during childbirth. It provides the equivalent of child care services, with particular regard to the child who has been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that occurred during the prenatal development of the child. It also provides access to coordination and rehabilitation services, with particular emphasis on a child who has been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that occurred during the prenatal period of the child's development or during childbirth. Provides the possibility of giving birth in a hospital with a level III reference. This also applies to other family support and foster care benefits. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, the Act also guarantees In the case of the birth of a child from such a pregnancy Material support in the amount of PLN 4 000. The joint committees discussed the draft submitted. The Senators have recognized And they agreed that it was part of building a family policy system that specifically supports families with disabled children. It is recalled that under one of the elements of family policies, 500+ has been awarded benefits for families with children with disabilities of 225 000 this year. In 2017, the government plans to spend PLN 35 billion on family policy, which seems to be a large amount. During the discussion, the senators raised the issue of the deficit of measures for families with disabled children. And this is where everyone agreed that the law is really starting some work on this direction. This is borne out by the point that the senators and ministers referred to during the discussion. It's an art. 12, which says that the Council of Ministers will develop a programme of comprehensive support for the family by 31 December 2016, which is really still this year. It will be developed on the basis of separate provisions, but it will also be, ladies and gentlemen, a detailed and development of the actions which this Act signals. In the course of the discussion, it was considered that the law deserves support. Most of the votes are recommended to you, the High Senate, to adopt this act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u74	Dear Senator, I have a question about whether you've talked about this until this general, comprehensive programme is not about this one-off payment. It's going to be developed. Is there a term known? [[December 31st.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u75	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Senator! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 12 defined this term. This provision states that by 31 December of this year the Council of Ministers will adopt a programme of comprehensive support for the families of This year, this year... So in the next two months.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u77	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[I have a question.]] You're welcome, Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u78	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! During the meeting of the committee, the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy reported how recently, in the last year, the situation has changed with regard to benefits for family policy This program, this law is in this Among the European countries. Could you give me the data, please? I must say, I was surprised myself that this change is so huge. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u79	Thank you so much for that question. Dear Members, according to the Minister, it appears that the pro-family policy in Poland has been implemented so far... In terms of the amount of budgetary expenditure for this policy, we are on 16th or 17th place It was that level. But the planned expenses will make us move to position four. Did I remember correctly? The Minister nods his head so I remember well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask for clarification, because I don't know if I heard the senator right. Is this comprehensive programme to be in Parliament by the end of the year in the form of a statutory or government-accepted programme? Because there's a big difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u82	It will be a resolution of the Council of Ministers, a government program. Programme developed by the Council of Ministers and adopted by the Council of Ministers. [[And is he gonna take on statutory shapes later, or is it just gonna be...]] It's supposed to be the program, the formula of the program. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u83	Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Senator rapporteur what happened to the recipients over the age of eighteen. I mean, we all know that there's not much change... For most of these children, the situation is the same as for those children up to the age of eighteen and after the age of eighteen require the same care. Did the committee do that? Would you mind telling us what's going to happen to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u85	Senator, this wasn't discussed in today's sitting, that's not the question. I suggest you ask the ministers how the ministers will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u86	Thank you. Senator Rotnicka again? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u87	I'm sorry to ask you this, but it's only now that I've been given this bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 it is stated that a one-off benefit shall be granted if the woman has remained in medical care no later than 10 weeks of gestation until delivery. There may be women who do not meet this condition, and a random event will be such that the child will be born disabled. Is that a good record? Don't you think that this shouldn't be defined, written, that from the tenth, or that there should be another special record that would order any pregnant woman to do prenatal tests or be under medical care? That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u88	Thank you so much for asking. The details of this article were not discussed at the meeting of the Joint Committee. The requirement for a woman to be in medical care from the 10th week of pregnancy to the day of childbirth is that we want to maximise the interests of the child who is born. This is how we want to cheer up the women who are going to have the baby... Very similar is the provision in the Family Benefits Act. It states that the condition for family benefits is that a woman is taken care of by a doctor, medical care no later than ten weeks of pregnancy. This article was, as it were, repeated here. [[Can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u90	The point is that the bill is to enter into force on 1 January. There are women who are already pregnant, and maybe this is just the tenth week, or maybe even earlier... It's inconclusive or some kind of... Can she bring in something that'll make it better?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u91	I understand the senator's intentions, but the legislator must make such a requirement that there should be proper health care for women who are pregnant. And as I say, this principle is also applied to women who are granted a family benefit. Usually women who get pregnant, as if they're aware that they should be taken care of by a doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u92	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. Thank you very much, senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to speak because I would like to stress very strongly that for the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło this law is a very important act, and it is also an opening of the whole process of action, in the case of disabled people, families with disabled children, persons with disabilities. One of the senators asked who this bill would cover. Of course, the bill talks mainly about support for pregnant women and families, and families are no less important than pregnant women, because actually often this difficult situation is experienced by a woman, and her family, and the support belongs to both. On the other hand, of course, we do not want to overlook anyone with disabilities, with children with disabilities, any child, so the programme we are preparing, this comprehensive programme, which is to be adopted by 31 December of this year, is discussed in the article. 12, there we also define its scope. And I'll mention it because I think it's important... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 it is said that the program can also be addressed to families... Previously, specific cases are mentioned, and in the paragraph. 3 is shown in general: The programme may also be aimed at families with a child who has a valid disability judgment or a judgment in the case of children between the ages of 1 and 16 years of age, without determining the degree of disability, it is decided that they are disabled, because of the fact that, due to the development of a child, it is difficult to determine how this disability in adult life will look light or moderate or significant disability as defined in the provisions on occupational and social rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities from 16 years of age and there is no ceiling for disabled persons, i.e. how the child ceases to benefit from this earlier definition, we apply this definition of disability, in the case of children from 16 years of age already having a disability status, and this applies also to adults and to children and young people with an adequate opinion on the need for early support to the development of the child, a judgment on the need for special education or a judgment on the need for re-education activities referred to in the provisions of the Education Act and their families. In the case of children, mainly with intellectual disabilities, disability is also ruled by psychological and pedagogical counsellors, children are directed to special teaching, to special centres, or to home teaching, in any case, so as not to abandon any disabled child, no disabled person, this definition is very broad. And this definition guarantees that no child, no disabled person, who will be able to benefit from this support or need this support, will be left out. I would like to stress very strongly that we are talking about the whole spectrum of disability. We are also talking about adults because when a disabled child becomes an adult, he does not cease to be a person who requires support, care, assistance and the burden of responsibility for this person at all. That is why we also include disabled adults, families with disabled adults. We believe that the state should also provide support and care for them. I would very much like to stress that the allegations of rapid proceding are very important, but it is just as important that people with disabilities get this help as soon as possible. We want this law to enter into force on 1 January 2017. At the same time, we promise, the government is committed to preparing a comprehensive programme by 31 December 2016. This law was dealt with separately because the Prime Minister promised the law, she promised the programme, but she also promised a change in the budget, which will provide funding for the implementation of this law and this programme. The Seym is under investigation over this bill right now. Only in parallel with the work on the budget, the adoption of this law gives the chance that we will be able to change the budget, make an amendment to the budget, which will ensure that the right to support for people with disabilities which are adopted, which is important for the environment, can be implemented. Of course, the Act refers to an obligation which rests on us, on the state, on public authority. I'll remind you of the article. 68, and Art. 71 constitutions which make it very clear that it is the duty of the State to support motherhood, support pregnant women, support people with disabilities and families with disabled children in a special way or with a disabled person. For the last, let's say, 26 years in a situation where a woman found out that her child would be disabled, she would have health problems, she would need special care, or when she was born disabled, she often remained alone, often didn't know where to look for help, she had to run, search for a rehabilitator, a specialist, information whether this child could be helped and how to help. We believe that this law should be adopted as soon as possible and that this programme should be launched as soon as possible because for a child, time for a disabled child is very important. Only early intervention, early diagnosis, early rehabilitation, medical intervention or treatment help to eliminate disability, often avoid disability. After all, we are already able to perform surgeries in children during fetal life, often heart defects are treated, and other identified problems are solved during fetal life. Therefore, I would very much like to ask the High House that this law come into force as soon as possible so that we are able to provide funding for its implementation so that we can prepare this programme that we promised to start working with life, not just discuss whether we should have respect for life or not. I believe that the proposal made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the Seym is very important. I believe that the environment of people with disabilities, that people with disabilities deserve a serious debate, deserves not only to talk about their problems, but also to start practically implementing support. If the state is to support someone, to remember someone, then such a group are people with disabilities, families with children with disabilities. It's a duty of the state. It is our duty to remember them, to support them, and to be with these mothers, with those families who have taken care of, the difficulty of raising a disabled child. I ask the High House, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, that you take a positive look at this bill and give us a chance to prepare a program that will comprehensively support people with disabilities. I would also like to stress very strongly that this law, this programme, is just the beginning of what the government intends to do when it comes to solving the problems of people with disabilities. During the process, we had many meetings with the environments of people with disabilities and with organisations that run centres to support children with disabilities. We were also at a meeting with perinatal hospices that were created from the bottom up. They are currently operating without any budget support from the National Health Fund and are doing a huge job in supporting families who find out that their child has a fatal defect and can be born dead or die at birth. This bill gives us a chance to make those hospices happen. Supported to have contracts. If we finance them, they will provide care to those mothers and families who are in the most difficult situation because they have been informed that their child is at risk of death. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please vote for this bill, for life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u95	I know everyone's in a hurry, but it's very important, so I'm gonna let you ask me three questions quickly. [[We're not in a hurry.]] My point is that this allowance of PLN 4,000 will be granted for the birth of a living child. Tell me what's really different about a child who's still living in the womb, and he's gonna die in a moment, right after she's born, from that child who... how did you weigh it, since you're giving those people 4,000 zlotys and this? No? If the baby lives three minutes longer, the mother gets the money, and if she died a moment earlier, she doesn't. And what does this kind of pregnancy involve, I think we all know. Second question. The costs are to be PLN 150 million. Such data was circulating in the press. I would like to ask you how you calculated these costs. Whether there are also issues of assistants, issues of hospice construction, etc., etc.? Please tell us what ingredients are in those 150 million zlotys. And the third question is that a one-off benefit is granted when a woman has remained in medical care from at least 10 weeks of pregnancy to childbirth. Tell me, if she's taken care of later than ten weeks, will she not get that benefit? Tell me if you're familiar with such cases... Have you consulted doctors that women sometimes don't know they're pregnant? These things happen, too. Do I understand that if a young girl doesn't know she's pregnant by ten weeks, she'll only find out later, she won't get that benefit? I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u96	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u97	Senator! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Of course, these questions are very important. I do not hide that... Well, we are committed to the fact that what you will report in the discussion will be very carefully considered, especially as regards this programme that we are preparing, because we believe that it should be our common duty to prepare good solutions for these people. As far as the benefit is concerned, we are talking about the benefit which is part of the whole package of different family benefits. Among these family benefits, of course, each benefit has a different role. There is a care provision, which at the moment amounts to PLN 1,300 for carers, for mothers, for parents who resign to take care of their disabled child. From 1 January 2017, this care service will amount to PLN 1 thousand 406 and will be refunded. There are birth benefits, it's called birth benefits. besmic I do not know if you remember, it came into force in 2006. A child's birth benefit granted regardless of the income criterion. Of course, the above-mentioned law on family benefits and the amendment of this law were proceded in the Senate. So I understand that these solutions that are, we take... we believe that they are co-responsible for the Sejm and the Senate that once passed them. There is a child's birth allowance The income criterion is there for a change. It's 500+. And, as the Senator rapporteur said here, as part of the 500+ benefit... In the last year 225 000 children with disabilities benefited from this benefit. Every month these children receive 500 PLN, an additional 500 PLN. And when the senator talked about the fact that the current government could be proud of family policy, he was talking about something that... now, recently, there has been this qualification of European countries when it comes to family policy. We've moved 16 places to fourth place. In 2017 we will spend PLN 35 billion on family policy. And that made us move 16 places in the ranking of European countries when it comes to spending on family policy. Of course, this one-off allowance for the birth of a disabled child is one of the many benefits that a given family will receive. And each of these benefits is really about something else. This supplement, which we are talking about here, concerns a situation when a woman has a baby and learns that this child is hard, chronically ill, with a fatal defect or with a disability. And of course, each such mother must act. In comments from parents of disabled children... One of the mothers, having a disabled child, said The second one with three children with disabilities repeated this at a committee meeting in the Sejm. For them, what we're talking about here is a lifeline. It gives them a chance to take action quickly, to pay for a taxi to get a kid to rehab, get to a specialist, get to a clinic, get to a room. Because every mother, preparing for the birth of a child, prepares a room, but when a child has a disabled child, it often turns out that this equipment is insufficient. Thus, of course, this benefit has a specific purpose and purpose. However, different other benefits also apply. As far as costs are concerned, I'm already looking... Of course, in the-- I'm telling you, Senator-- We estimate that in the section on increasing healthcare expenditure, this law requires... It's gonna cost 50 million zlotys. As regards the policy instruments for the family, including this one-off benefit and the funding of the tasks of family assistants, this will be the sum of PLN 122 million. As for the program we want to prepare, this program will cost PLN 300 million. When it comes to funding for family assistants... Since this is the task of the municipalities, and we will impose new tasks on them, we want to finance it with the amount of PLN 70 million. As far as the tenth week of pregnancy is concerned, I would like to stress once again that we are operating in a specific legal system. We take these provisions into account, those laws that have been passed before. It has already been mentioned here that the regulations for the 10th week of pregnancy were introduced as the Sejm, as the Senate on the occasion of the benet and maternity allowance. Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska, who was then Minister, Deputy Minister, involved in family affairs, felt that this had to be written in order to motivate women to receive specialized care during pregnancy. She has convinced Members and Senators, and this is part of the benefits that are currently in force. We want to review family benefits at the beginning of the year, and we want to lean on it because I agree with the senator that this tenth week should... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] This record should be an incentive, but it cannot be rigidly defined, because it may turn out to be to the detriment of the mother, who for some reason, often objective, could not go to the gynecologist during the tenth week of pregnancy, for example. She was abroad. Right? There may be a lot of these objective cases, and at the meeting of the Sejm Committee we promised that in the context of the review of family benefits we would try to make this right in all three cases. The point is that these rules should be uniform, so that it is not that with one witness it is, and with the other it is not. And I agree with the senator that this rigid record of the 10th week is a little too... maybe not motivating, but certainly a hurtful solution. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome, Senator. [[I think I'll hold off until the debate is over, because I want to make one amendment. It's gonna be a short speech.]] Good. Thank you, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 23 years ago, a law was passed on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion, a law that is based on the protection of the conceived child. This law obliges the state and local authorities to provide pregnant women, especially pregnant women, with all possible assistance. Would you agree with my statement that during these 23 years, despite changing governments, there has been no programme that is so extensive, so rich in solutions, but also in the financial resources that the Minister has mentioned, that this is the first such extensive programme that is implementing what is an obligation of the state and local authorities in this law adopted in 1993? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because such a noise in the Chamber is disturbing both you and the State who are asking questions, and the Minister in response. I would also ask you to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u101	Minister, it is extremely important that here in the plenary room we have heard in committee. There is no lack of such comments that this law, in a political sense, is intended to weaken the negative perception of the intention to tighten up the abortion bill. You denied it. I wish I could. I think we'd all like to. To hear here such a declaration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u102	And Senator Jan Rulewski wants to ask you a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. After this question, I'll ask the Minister for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u103	Minister... I don't have a card. I need a microphone. [[Voice from the room: Insert the card.]] It's working. Sorry for the fuss. Thank you. Minister, this is a law on the support of pregnant women and families. Are only cases of difficult pregnancies I mean, are all these situations related to Down's syndrome or are they even worse for both this law and other laws? But I also have a question: are many more cases of premature pregnancies in fact the growing problem of this programme? Because I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u104	I ask the Minister to answer the senator's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u105	Dear Mr. Senator, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Izbo! As regards Senator Szymański's question, I agree that the entire political class is responsible for the fact that the 1993 Act, which also included a very strong commitment by the public authorities to create a support system for women and families with disabled children, has not actually been implemented. I think that the whole political class should feel responsible for this, and quickly. I believe that what we are currently discussing is an important element to build a system of support for women, families, children and people with disabilities, because it is these environments This is natural; it is obvious that public authorities should first benefit from the support of the public authorities. As far as Senator Augustine's question is concerned, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's speech was about something else. We believe that there is no point in conducting ideological discussions. The government's task is to prepare good solutions that will practically implement the idea of supporting life, i.e. create a support system for children who need special care and for families who take care of such children. I would also like to say very clearly that I personally believe that life must be adopted, but it must always be an individual decision. And I also think empathy is what we should be guided by. Women who choose to give birth to a child with a defect, with a disability, require only respect, recognition, and in statements that appear around this law and around this problem, often lack this respect. I think it's worth remembering that we're discussing in a closed room, but we're often read and watched by the people we're discussing. And it is also worth remembering that we should take care of their sensitivity, their feelings, and respectfully speak about these women, those families who choose to have a child who is known to be disabled, that he needs special care and that his coming into the world will make this family have to make an extra effort. As far as Senator Rulewski's question is concerned, Minister Pinkas is with us precisely because this law also has a very large medical component. Of course, the Minister would say that we also take into account these early pregnancies, those children who are born with insufficient weight. We take into account support for all families, not just for families with difficult pregnancies. These difficult pregnancies are mentioned in this law only in those provisions that talk about medical services, about medical support, because they require additional specialized support. As far as the other instruments are concerned, they are addressed to all families with disabled children, to all children and people with disabilities, among others. coordination carried out by family assistants, as well as guidance, including psychological or legal. All those instruments that will make a woman feel safe are available. And we want them available to everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u107	Thank you very much. Minister, my questions are somewhat due to the fact that I did not have time to read the law in more detail. Please... You have already mentioned this in general, but I ask you kindly to say at some short points, whether and how the situation of pregnant women is improving at all. I'm abstracting here from difficult pregnancies, so let's call it. That's the first question. Second: does the limitation on the need to start medical care for pregnant women up to the 10th week apply only to this single provision of money or to other forms of support, including those already born? Would you kindly explain that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u108	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Alicia the Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u109	Minister, we are discussing here as if there were many cases of pregnancy at risk or premature births or children born with certain defects, diseases. That's why I'd like to ask you about statistics. How many cases are there in relation to the number of children born healthy? I'm lucky to be the grandmother of three grandchildren, and I thank you every day for being healthy, but I also know families like this. And I often help them. In which there are such problematic cases. And I really don't like the term "hard pregnancy." There is a pregnancy pathology department to which all these mothers need help, and I think that this medical package also includes help directed at such branches. To equip these branches to allow early, more thorough examination of the foetuses, to respond sufficiently early and to what the Minister said, namely to tell the mother at the appropriate time that this is the case. 'Cause I know these cases when a mother's having a crippled child, she found out about it. Even though she's been seeing a doctor since the 10th or maybe since the fifth week she's been pregnant. Only at the time of birth. And that's actually when this horrible shock occurs, because she was carrying a child that she thought was going to be born healthy. So how many kids are there? And is this additional package already included in this helping to focus on branches that deal with pregnant women? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u110	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u111	I'll start with the senator's question. Of course, this tenth week is, as I said earlier, related to family benefits. Such an element currently exists in the case of those benefits which relate to the birth of the child. And here it will also be, only that it will be associated with this one-time witnessing. And this one-off benefit is such an additional expedition for the first costs that occur in such a situation. But of course, all the other benefits they receive will continue to benefit. So let's remember that we're not talking about a single financial support system here. There's a lot of support right now. About what's specifically in the bill... There's a little bit of that in the bill that sounds a little vague, but it's very important. The Minister of Health is here with us, there is the Deputy Minister of Health, who has also worked on this bill... And I'm gonna say that it was very inspiring for me to have something that was tried to introduce here, and I'm sure it'll be possible to introduce it into the program. This is coordinated healthcare. Because, in fact, we are increasingly using the advice of a doctor who looks at us clipping. And the point is that someone actually looks at the whole thing, evaluates what is really needed, looks at this process from diagnosis, through treatment, to rehabilitation as a single process, so that it is not so that we go separately for research, separately to the doctor, and then we look separately for a rehabilitationist. This is particularly important for children, but also in other cases of support. As far as family assistants are concerned, we also want them to assess each situation individually and adjust the package of benefits, services, support that is needed. We also want them to be able to act before and on behalf of different bodies or institutions in a situation where their mother is struggling. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we mention a few things that I think They're the answer to the senator's questions. The project provides for coordination of support for pregnant women and families with children with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening disease that arose during the prenatal development of the child or during childbirth, carried out by the assistant of the family. The same is stated: the introduction of a single birth benefit for a child with severe and irreversible disability, a life-threatening illness that occurred during the prenatal development of the child or during childbirth. That, too, I would like to stress very strongly that we are not just talking about the period of pregnancy, because many of the damage that later causes various kinds of trouble for the child is due to the birth itself. Another issue is the introduction of mechanisms to increase and facilitate access to healthcare services, including: priority in access to doctors, pharmaceutical services, increased access to medical devices, appropriate standards of medical services. That also raised questions. I mentioned earlier to you that, in fact, a child who is born with a certain disease, disability, needs diagnosis and intervention quickly. That's what it's all about, putting the service out of order, that's what it's all about. This baby can't wait two, three or four months to get to a specialist. It needs a diagnosis immediately, so that the necessary measures can be taken as soon as possible. Preparing and making available a comprehensive informant on solutions for pregnant women and families with a child with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness that arose during the prenatal period of development of the child or during childbirth is also a very important issue that seems obvious to those involved in the field. However, if someone had no need to be interested in what the benefits are, services for disabled children, if someone had no reason to be interested in what the State offers in the field of child benefits, and now these reasons have, if someone is looking for help and there are more and more rare diseases They are rare because they affect a small part of the population, a small number of people, really there are more and more of them. This information is really important to start with. I believe that it is important for these women, and for these families, that we oblige family and health ministers to prepare such informants and update them on an ongoing basis. Another issue is access to free legal assistance for pregnant women. This access to free legal assistance has, of course, different dimensions, including when a woman wants to leave this child, give them up for adoption, she wants someone else to take care of him. And the last thing that seems most important to me here, and certainly is the most important thing in terms of the urgency of this law and the separate way of proceeding, is an obligation for the Council of Ministers to adopt by 31 December 2016 a comprehensive programme of support for families. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have some questions left, Senator Hare. Senator Hare is asking very specific questions. Of course, I would like to answer that question, but I think the answer will be more complete if your marshal would allow Minister Pinkas to give it to her, who worked with me on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] Would Minister Pinkas like to answer that question? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We have an analysis from the National Health Fund and it seems that they are quite full. At the moment we have about 13,000 difficult pregnancies, and of course the degree of disability is different... [[A year?]] A year, of course, a year. In total, children with disabilities are about 200 thousand, with 80,000 children these are actually very important disabilities, mainly genetic bands. About 6,000 children These are children with really very severe genetic defects. At the moment, thanks to this programme, we are able to provide important medical support to all children, and the most important thing is that from 1 January 2017 all children will have significant health benefits, medical benefits. Especially important is that there will be coordination of medical benefits, it will be based on the institution of the family doctor, the environmental and family midwife, who will know how to direct the child, will know that there will be no queues for these children and that there will be no limit. This is very important that we are lifting limits to certain limits, of course, we will coordinate this with regard to technical measures, aids used in child care. I think the amount of health benefits is unimaginable, and I want to say clearly that it certainly exceeds many times... Only what I was talking about right now... Because the media only talks about those 4,000 zlotys. This is a relatively insignificant thing in terms of the scale of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. Thank you, ministers, for answering my questions. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Jan Rulewski to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the Parliament of the Republic was forced, in extraordinary mode, to deal with the project notified this time, which is indeed a surprise, by the government of you... by the government of the PiS. There is talk of separate mode, although it is worth mentioning that this means that a new practice of proceding is being introduced, after 24 projects have so far been proceded, important projects, only 3 were government. Finally, we have the fourth in separate mode. Only that all these actions have one thing in common: a lack of conversation, a divorce with the public, turning away from the public, and it is in matters ranging from small to most important. I think that the matter of life is important, although, as the Minister pointed out, it is not the most important thing, because during the year he dies, he dies, also because of illness, much more people who would also receive such care. By going to the bill, I will say that it cannot be defined as anything other than as a legislative bastard, which resulted from bad cooperation between the pro-life environments and the government, between organisations which aim to protect themselves and the government, which defends itself with all means against the loss of power or rather against the loss of face. The worst part isn't the argument, it's just... I don't know how much the pro-life moves have earned and how much the government will benefit from social support. Whether they beat him up with those black umbrellas or not, it's none of my business. Surely, as I said, we have been put against the wall, before a very difficult choice: how much to respect the non-parliamental practices, the non-parlamentary actions of the government, so as not to inflict anything that results from the need to save lives? I think the Platform is my view It will not enter into this dispute, but it will also not turn away in a simple way, in a totally different way from any initiatives... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] The proof of this is that she had already tabled amendments during the procedure in the Sejm and therefore supported this initiative. These were substantive amendments, amendments that emerged from consultations that were not carried out by the government. I think that my colleagues and I will maintain this line, and at this Senate meeting we will make amendments, proposals to refine this bill. Why is this a kind of assassination... a violation of good customs in parliament? Because the bill is processed quickly. That is because there are no clearly identified measures to guarantee its success. Next: it is incidental and the only thing in it is certain, or rather least certain... She refers to the future, to the fact that such a program will be constructed. This, of course, makes it difficult for us to take a position so that we can achieve the right balance between our relationship to these, say, the specific actions of the government of Mrs Szydło, and the desire for us to preserve our identity, this identity, which is indicated by the fact that the Platform has been dealing with disability issues for years, not only children's disability, including unborn children. Proof of this is the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and another proof is, in this language, very populist, that in Poland the number of births is decreasing, which... The number of children born is reduced... The number of births of the dead is decreasing. The whole database for treatment is growing, new hospitals are being created, etc. I wish, Minister, that this program should include... that the Children's Health Center should never stand because of the lack of funds for care. I wouldn't want us to be surprised at the same situation at the mother's health center. I am talking about this because I would like our Poland, this Poland created by us here, to be better than this left-wing, communist one. [[What an intimacy...]] We know there's not much time. The time we've been left is short or almost zero. There's something else I'd like to draw attention to. The state has to admit that other governments, too. They pay close attention to the child being conceived and born, even those who have a difficult birth, whose chances of existence are very limited, whose existence will be difficult. Such children require almost Samaritan presence of carers, especially mothers and fathers. In contrast, responsible parents know that birth is usually short, pregnancy is longer, and parenting is longer... Well, he's going to be taken care of, which PiS forgets, at least up to the age of nineteen, how long the school's obligation lasts, and in fact up to the age of twenty-five or twenty-first, if he's a disabled child. That's what you forget about in this bill. There's talk of children with disabilities and support from ten weeks to conception, and then you forget... [[To be born.]] For birth, I'm sorry. Thank you, Senator. To be born. And then you forget about them, then you forget about the help... I appeal to Minister Radziwill here. It is forgotten that it is then the most necessary doctor and medicine. My amendment, rejected by Mrs Rafalska, is about to... It is about the answer to this question, which I have already put on the occasion of the drug law, but also when the 500+ initiative appeared. Even then you had to think that 500+ could not only include born children. Notabene only up to 18 years old, although you are a child even a little longer Only from the moment they are started. But Mrs Rafalska rejected this project, in which it was necessary to support women who were pregnant with some kind of help, above all, of course, regarding medicines. My amendment aims to ensure that both the pregnant woman who is giving birth and those children who later, unfortunately, will have to benefit from rehabilitation, and, above all, from medicines, from these costs, even less as if it were a disciplinary government policy. As I said further, this bill... the Minister said it had to be passed quickly. Come on, come on, come on, come There's a saying that rush is needed when catching flies. And here's what I'm going to say, the elements of catching flies... [[Voice from the room: Flea.]] Fleas or flies... Yeah, fleas. There's an element here because that's where... [[There's a flap on the fly.]] [[But the Senate isn't a cabaret.]] Okay. Okay, because in this bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] There's a cabaret solution in this bill, which is that when there's no money, where does it come from? It's from a neighbor, the Labor Fund. The Labour Fund, and especially the coordination of these activities, notabene needed... He's not here to take anything. He serves the unemployed. Perhaps they are unemployed who have dependent children with disabilities or are themselves disabled. I'm sure they're like that. Senator Augustine said how big the needs are when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. What makes you say that, catch-up? It's coming from here that there's a lot of money out there for a while. But let's reverse the question: what happens when unemployment rises again, don't let God? How are we gonna catch these fleas? What fund? Maybe 500+, which I don't believe in? So it's kind of like a catch. I am personally addicting my support to this initiative... Because this initiative has a load of sensitivity, you can see a certain openness to problems. It is not like the Minister said that no one does it, because every Minister of Health, I suspect, in every democratic government, has done it. However, I am addicting support to whether this bill can be improved so that it is our common work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u116	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we should meet here in a few months, when this whole package is ready, because then we can tell if it really is a comprehensive help for the family. Today we do not really believe this and we think that this is a cyclical solution, connected, first, with the discussion on the anti-abortion law introduced in the Sejm, and secondly, with the protests of women concerning the admissibility of abortion in Poland. This bill is related to this. It's supposed to be an alibi. I agree with my leader here. This law is intended to constitute an alibi for future measures limiting the possibility of abortion. That's how I read it. Especially since we hear that children should be born to be baptized... [[To live.]] ...to be named. And I guess that's why I asked you about a baby that's born dead. And I didn't hear an answer from the Minister. Because we see here that a child who will live, for example. Three minutes, it's already worth a lot more than that. And that is my question: is that why this law is called "For Life"? And yet, we believe that the child that is in the womb is a living child. That's what you say... [[Yes, sir.]] ...in his speeches. So I don't understand why a mother who spends many months getting ready to give birth buys a crib, paints a room, etc., not only is she affected by the death of her child at the time of birth, she's not even gonna get that $4,000 from the state. I'd like to say And this is where you should agree with me... I do not deny nor do my colleagues deny, I think, that no one denies good intentions when it comes to this bill. I mean. such intentions that she's definitely there to help. But let us not hide: states in the current situation cannot afford to help all families who will raise disabled children, just as these families would deserve it. The 4,000 zlotys said that some of those who had such children were insulting, abusive, and some attempt to underestimate the effort that all families and single parents are making. I'm talking about single mothers raising a child, because I'm reminding you that this is mostly a woman's problem. Studies show that 80% Husbands leave a woman with a disabled child, just because of... They leave their families and leave. And a woman stays with a child like that. And now we hear... I have no doubt, Minister, in your good intentions. But you mentioned, and the bill lists issues such as hospice to arise for children who will have to use hospices. After all, not all of these children will be able to be at home because they will require constant and very specialized medical care. So that you promise a hospice, you promise mothers who are pregnant that they will have access and priority when it comes to surgery during pregnancy. We know how expensive these surgeries are. We know well that some children in Poland, already born, several years old, have been waiting for many years for treatments, for surgeries, for medicines for which there is no money. You promise, as the Minister mentioned, adoptions. You mentioned adoption. I remind you, there's such a big deal, I think there's a two-year-old boy at the Children's Health Center with a big disability waiting for adoption and he's looking forward to it. It is not that... In Poland so far most of the adoptions that took place when it comes to disabled children were adopted by people from abroad. There is no queue waiting for such children in Poland. I pay attention to the fact that these children are adopted. And I also draw attention to the fact that when you encourage and promise that you will really give something, that for these 2 or 3 months, by the end of December, we will have a bill that will improve access, which will give any medicine that opens up, this is fiction, this is cheating these families. It's giving hope that we can't fulfill. For example, because we are not able to provide decent care for children or elderly persons at the moment, because we cannot afford it. Yes, sir. Thank you very much, Minister, for listing all the things that have been introduced, especially in the last 8 years. I am very grateful for this because we know that raising these benefits is some concrete help, and that 4,000 zlotys, although important and certainly useful... It looks like giving, promising at the same time very many... And we have these promises, Mr. Minister, I look at our fellow senator. We won't be able to fulfill it. We're not gonna build hospices, and we're not gonna give every family... Where's the money for rehab? We're talking about rehabilitating these kids. These kids need rehab their whole life. It's very big money, it's huge benefits. You're talking about 150 and 300 million, and really to fulfill all these promises in the bill, and to be fulfilled by the end of this year... You will never fulfill them, this is a complete fiction. What I'm trying to say is that I've been thinking about how I'm going to vote, because even 4,000 zlotys is some kind of help to the family. Right? I may even vote for this bill, but I wonder why do something like this when it's not comprehensive, if it doesn't exhaust... doesn't show that we really embrace such a person, such a child, such a mother, such a family, full care. You have given nothing but a one-time guarantee of PLN 4,000, which does not solve anything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u118	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to make a clear reaction to this draft law. Its sources are the events that took place a month ago, two months ago, related to the Act on the admissibility of abortion. And as long as this bill that we're investigating today is not in exchange for a bill that at the moment treats the admissibility of abortion, as long as I'm in favour of this bill. There can't be one instead of the other. For those who confess... who are Christians who stand on the side of life, the decision whether a disabled child will be born should be consistent with their conscience, but you cannot force everyone to do so. I would like to focus on some issues that could possibly improve this law a little bit. There is certainly a lack of a whole program that would involve helping newborn children with a certain disability syndrome, for their families, mainly for mothers. Because, for a good cause, we do not know how far and how widely this support program will go, because, as Senator Zdrojewska said, it certainly requires a very large amount of funding. And here's the question. Will this programme apply only to children who will be born after the implementation of this law, or will it apply to all children with such a high disability? That's the fundamental difference. Another thing that's written in this bill... It is a question of §12, which states that the programme developed by the Ministry, concerning the assistance of families and children born with a high disability, may also be addressed to families with a child with a valid disability decision or a light or moderate decision or a significant degree of disability. That is because this programme will not only apply to newborn children, but also to those who are already and which, let's say, are disabled. So this program is going to be very wide. The fact is that Parliament can account for government failure and failure to fulfil its responsibilities. It is also known that this program, if it is to be created, is less than two months old... This is an extremely difficult task, and it is likely that the comprehensive programme will not be presented by the end of December and will take place from January 2017. And now the second question, which is also inconclusively formulated. In addition, the Minister quoted the provisions of existing laws that provide benefits to women who decide to have a disabled child will apply only to those who have been under the constant care of a doctor since the 10th week of pregnancy. And it is known that there are many such women, especially those with difficult backgrounds that do not give in to this control or find out that they are pregnant, only later, after these 10 weeks. If we really want to approach all those women who decide to have a disabled child with their heart, then I believe in Article. Paragraph 10 (5) should be introduced later than provided for in the Act. Therefore, I propose an amendment which will specify that a provision stating that a one-off benefit is payable if a woman has remained in medical care no later than 10 weeks of pregnancy for childbirth should enter into force on 1 November 2017. Because it's about 10 months since the bill comes into force. The woman will know she's pregnant... And in such a situation, I will make an amendment, which I am now handing over to your marshal. At the same time, I would like to hear from the Minister some kind of commitment that we will be able to get acquainted before the end of this year with this programme to assist mothers who have children with disabilities in some way. Although maybe not at the final stage At least with regard to the main assumptions and the costs it incurs. I will certainly not vote against this bill because every step towards helping families is right, although I know it will be very difficult to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Anthony Szymanski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to begin by referring to Senator Rulewski's statement, who regretted that we were working without sufficient consultation, very quickly and as if we were coercing... I had the opportunity to hold a meeting of the combined family and health committees and asked, in accordance with the rules of procedure, whether all senators agreed to work in such a way. I did not hear any objections, for which I thank you also now that I have the opportunity to speak, because it was important that we be able to proceed. I agree that such situations should be extremely rare, that we should have time to consult, to reflect, and we should avoid situations such as those which have taken place and which I consider to be an exceptional situation connected with the promise made publicly by the Prime Minister. At that time, she marked the deadline and we are obliged to do some work. This is the first case. Second thing. I'd like to get back to what's been going on in this area for 23 years. But, of course, very briefly, because 23 years ago, a law was passed on family planning, protection of the human fetus and conditions for abortion. This bill works in many respects. You can say it's very good. The number of abortions has decreased dramatically, but women's health has also improved. The number of abandoned newborns has also decreased, women's mortality has decreased as a result of childbirth and childbirth, so that we observe the very beneficial effects of this law. But this law also obliges the public authorities to provide special assistance to women in difficulty. For the first three years, this aid seemed to have been granted to women under a certain income threshold. After 3 years, the State gave up on this and there was never any special aid regulation for women in difficulty, after all, as a result of this law, Until today, when we pass this law. This is the first such wide-ranging law that offers really many solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about PLN 4,000, because it's the easiest way to catch this bill. This is the most media, but the Minister said that the projected cost of this bill is over PLN 170 million. We as senators in our committees count against every million. This concerns various situations, various laws, so that we cannot say that 170 million per bill and 300 million PLN per programme, which will probably also be consulted with the High Chamber, not only with the Health Committee. It is to be adopted by the end of this year It is a small measure. These are very big measures. In addition, note that today we will also vote on other solutions that are not the result of this law that we are currently debating. I am thinking about entitlement for those who receive care and who will be entitled from now on to unemployment benefits as well as to early retirement benefits. Isn't it also the fulfillment of the promise of helping families and people who care for the disabled? Of course I do, it's the fulfillment of that promise. And it was a government initiative. Recently we have adopted here, in an atmosphere of full consent, a solution that gives the opportunity to care for both parents if they have more than one disabled child. We've agreed on this together. And talking about the fact that you don't see enough problems... Well, of course, such statements should mobilize us, but we need to see that in recent months, in the last year, there has been a lot going on in terms of developing different forms of care and helping the family. I do not deny that some actions have also been taken in the last term, but if you look at this, for example. from the point of view of family allowances, which are small, over 2 million children have lost their benefits in recent years because they have not been increased their income threshold. In the current parliamentary term and for the new government, there are various new solutions coming from month to month. The Minister said something here that surprised me, namely that in the ranking of European countries, in terms of benefits and family policy, Poland begins to appear in the top five. This is indeed a situation that should give us thought, also in the context of this law that we are adopting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm almost done with my speech. Different philosophies are possible to solve the problem of protection of life at this very stage. Bans can be imposed, as in the civil project, punishing women for actions against the child of origin, but another philosophy is also possible to help. It's about social, psychological, legal assistance, taking care of women. It is also important to remind you that caring for your child is also a father's responsibility, as well as supporting your mother. A few people here pointed out that this concern on the part of fathers is too small. It is worth noting, then, that the role of fathers is also fundamental and that the child Both conceived and born He needs care and care from his mother and his father. So there are two philosophies. We have chosen this second philosophy, which is to solve this problem by providing various types of assistance, and it seems that it has a chance to prove itself, but provided that we create such an atmosphere in society, so that it is the best possible understanding of this problem. We can, of course, wage a war on this, as is the case between political groups fighting for power. However, in this area of family policy in particular, I would suggest that we refrain from this, because our families really need to be strengthened, they need us as political leaders, social leaders to show that we can work together on certain matters and we can act to strengthen families. That's what I'd be asking for. Finally, I think it is worth saying this: in this way the constitutional principle of protection of life, protection of life from the beginning, protection of life not only in civil law, criminal law, but through various types of assistance, which both the state and local governments, NGOs should and want to provide, should be implemented. To this we have the constitution, which we have been talking about so much in recent months, in the last year, and the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which was chaired by Professor Zoll, is committed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! If it were true that this issue which we are considering today on the occasion of this law was, as Senator Szymański said, in general philosophy, in the general plan of the rule of law and justice, I would be calmer, but that is not so. It wasn't on the election program or any announcements. This law appeared at a time when a discussion in Poland was opened around a law filed in the Sejm aimed at a total ban on abortion. And she is supposed to reassure all those concerned who fear that women in Poland will be forced to bear children and will be deprived of the possibility to make decisions on this matter when the fetus is irreversibly damaged. It is this group of people that is concerned with this law. It's enumerative here, so to speak, literally. And I am glad that Minister Michalkiewicz says that there is no intention to tighten up the anti-abortion bill, but I am approaching this declaration with a very large reserve. ♪ 'Cause it's ♪ With all due respect, Minister. You probably wouldn't, and certainly not alone, make a decision on this matter in line with your views. We are in the Senate, not someone other than Marshal Karczewski a few days ago confirmed that the proposal to change the anti-abortion law in Poland is that he holds it. He did not want to reveal at which point it would be triggered and how far these issues go, but we know that this is the intention of at least one of the most important politicians of the governing camp. That is why I think it would be wrong if, as we have said here, this bill was just an alibi for actions that deprive women of their right to choose. I, like the Minister, am absolutely pitiful about every fact of abortion in Poland. It's a drama. It's always a drama. But I think that even dramatic decisions in the situations set out in the act should be taken by women themselves. And now to the point, to the bill itself. It is hard to deny that any help addressed to mothers who give birth to a child with serious dysfunctions is valuable. And, of course, that's something to be happy about. Although I would like to remind you that the Civic Platform has made a request in the Sejm It also claimed that earlier, on the occasion of the Act on the witnessing of 500+ so that children with disabilities, including the former, could receive the benefit regardless of the income criterion. This criterion is not here. And since this benefit was supposed to be monthly, until the age of eighteen, it would be incomparably greater aid than the one you are proposing here. Well, enjoying, at the same time, I regret that this applies, Minister. As part of the financial issue for now, a narrow group of people, as you have said, by mentioning the number of people who may be covered by this law. Of course, the programme already extends this issue, but whether the benefits will be included there and what, it is still a mystery to all of us, we do not know that. We know there's gonna be some money for this. I, acting in the spirit of the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform in the Sejm, propose amendments which aim to ensure that this benefit, including the cash benefit, may include all children having a judgment of a significant degree of disability or disability if there is also a need for permanent and long-term care. I think we should get a solution like this. And let us not obscure ourselves with this, ma'am, that there is no means for this, because so far we have heard that they must be in absolutely necessary situations. All you have to do is listen and configure the 500+ program, not spend money on those who don't necessarily have to get the money, and spend it on those we care about today, and we all think they should get the money. I'll say it again: it's a good thing it's 4,000 zlotys, but I think it should be for the first moment that the Minister was talking about. And it should be a question mark: what's next? Sure, there are benefits that the Platform once took care of. I have a whole list of them here to remind you of that, but I am grateful to the Minister and to Mr Szymanski that they wanted to see For justice's sake. That these benefits for carers of persons with disabilities were already foreseen by us. And at the end of 1 thousand 410 zlotys, I think that's it. From the new year for each carer who resigns from work, it is probably a large sum, and will be paid monthly, and not, like the 4,000 zlotys, one at a time. So, of course, we take this as a complement, as a further step in these actions that we have taken, but I believe that this is one-off and that this is not enough. I fully support Senator Rulewski, too, that the search for funds in the Labour Fund is not a good way to go, Minister. The state has been mercilessly criticizing us for such a thing for so many years, in a situation where it could somehow be justified. E.g. that money for training for doctors increases their professional chances. I know, it sounds thin, because doctors have jobs anyway. But what you're doing right now is going. Far away. This is no longer related to the labour market. This is simply the financing of social action, for which the Labour Fund is absolutely not intended! And the money from this fund should not be spent on it, because here is a kind of contract with employers who pay this money so that the unemployed can get benefits. When there is a surplus there, we must not take this money, because the situation on the labour market is fluctuating, it is improving once and once, and this money should be an iron reserve which must not be affected to any extent. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law could be much better if even this one-time aid could be provided for all families in which a child comes into the world with a large disability, requiring constant care. And, Minister, that's a remark. If you say so. I know that you are responsible for the work of the team working on the issues discussed here. The fact that there is money, that there must be money, that I am surprised at the statements that I also heard at the committee meeting that there is no money to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on equalisation of benefits for carers of disabled persons, in this case adults... I think we're gonna have to think comprehensively for a while. I would also recommend a project on which, many years here in the Senate, there has been work on a welfare check that would improve the situation of independent people, both children and adults, who would allow them to choose the best, most suitable services in a given area and which would allow them to make it very important too. The caretakers of such persons, for example, for breath, for the so-called. restful care, which they are looking forward to. I believe, Minister, that we will still be on these matters. It's a comprehensive conversation. Not only on the occasion of this programme, which we are all curious about and to which we kindly support, but also on the occasion of the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and dealing with the care of independent people in Poland in general. Once again, when making amendments, I recommend your attention... It wouldn't be a significant cost. I'm sure you could find that kind of means. At this meeting, the Minister of Finance assured us that for better implementation of the tax system will not be tens, not hundreds of millions, but even billions of zlotys. He was talking about 40 billion PLN, maybe 60 billion PLN. So if that's the way it's supposed to be, then... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...first of all, let's take care of the children most seriously injured, nothing to blame, which I think we all think kindly of. So that I make an amendment in the hope that it will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u124	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Senator. Please, Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It's very good that we're working on this bill in such a fast way. I will repeat here the words of Minister Pinkas from the committee meeting, with which I agree: twice gives the one who gives quickly. This is a bill that we could continue to work on for months. But it would already mean a few thousand, or perhaps even a dozen thousand families, who would have had the child referred to in this bill and who would not have received the one-time allowance already mentioned. But I would like to draw attention to another aspect, not to the 4,000 PLN mentioned here by Senator Szymański, that it is so media and that only this aspect is rising. But first, it's called polemics... There were questions here, as well as speeches, about those 10 weeks in dispute. As a doctor, I'm defending these ten weeks, ten weeks pregnant, that's what we're talking about. Not just because it's consistent with other laws. I just consider Poles to be bright women. I can't imagine being pregnant for 10 weeks and not knowing it. [[Sure.]] The polish are educated. Polish women are bright women. And since we in this bill still want to guarantee prenatal examinations, certain intrauterine treatments or treatments for these children, medically speaking... We need to know early about the condition of the mother, we need to have the genetic tests done early on for the unborn child to plan the treatment, because it's not such a treatment that if there's a diagnosis today, we'll be cured tomorrow. That's why I'm defending these 10 weeks as a doctor. And now I would like to draw attention to the long-term, long-term aspect, but still concerning pregnancy. Minister Michałkiewicz spoke about the birth of a child known to be severely impaired, that he may not survive the entire pregnancy... If the mother is unable to bear this child for nine months, or she will know that she will be born and die. In a shorter or longer time, but he will die... The decision in this matter is always personal, but I would like to say that I know so many examples of my parents' personal decisions to carry out this pregnancy... These women should be helped, and they are being helped today. Your Senate, it will be truism, because we all know that there are families, marriages who, knowing that the child we care about here will be born, want it to be born, want to see them, want to tuck them in, and if they die, they want to bury them and mourn them. And every psychotherapist knows and will say that this is the only path leading to a certain purification, allowing them to deal with this problem for the future, so that before possible next pregnancy... they can enter into life without this trauma, which often involves a lack of burial. Parents want to name a child, they want to be with this child from start to finish, whether it's more handicapped or less, whether it's nice eyes or not, because it's their child. For several years I have been invited to the honorary committee of such palliative conferences which organize an environment related to palliative medicine of the Medical University of Wroclaw. And there, in fact, doctors always share their experience in perinatal medicine. I, as a doctor, listen to it with real humility, for I have no such knowledge, and what experience it is to do with such very sick little ones as they do; they support children and families alive. Until now, ladies and gentlemen, there has been no penny for this, and this bill guarantees... They collected themselves not only for care products, but even for this small medical equipment, for delicate injection needles, for catheters, for replacement of ventilators, breathing tubes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone needs to talk, they can leave the room for a while. We're talking about a very serious subject, and it's not easy to hear a rumbling like that in the courtroom. Quiet, please. Since there are very few places in specialized hospices, these doctors drive their own cars all over Lower Silesia to help their parents change their chest tube, change their catheters, feed them. So far, they had to raise money for it or add money to it from their own, and now this bill comes to their aid. And even if that's the only reason... Thank you to the government. I don't think anybody's gonna doubt whether to raise their hand and vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Minister Radziwiłł to speak. You're welcome. Minister, senator? You're welcome. [[As a senator.]] As a senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say, I'm feeling a little uncomfortable working on this bill because it seems like she's talking about things that should be obvious. We live in a civilization in which the value of human life was not discussed for an excellent part of the past time, and pregnancy naturally led to the birth of a child. You didn't have to think about what would happen, though most of those who were expecting a child. It's an experience. Probably all of us, or most of us, were worried about what it would be like. But we've been living in a slightly different reality for some time now, in which the fear of the quality of a child to be born. I say it with some snack, with some discomfort I use the word "quality" translates into concrete actions. It is no longer so obvious that if the child is already pregnant, and there are excellent possibilities for it, it turns out to be far from the dream ideal, it must be born. This often involves a very serious drama, a dilemma, and this dilemma translates into the need to make a choice. This law, perhaps contrary to the expectations of some, especially those who criticized it before it appeared, and now criticize even more, does not create any revolution. It's just normal. This is precisely in this new situation, when the dilemmas I mentioned arise, taking responsibility for the decision that parents have to make, first of all we have, although it is better to stay with parents, because in the end, where there is a child, there is also a father, even if he is not, but in most cases And it's worth seeing. When we talk about families who are struggling with this drama, there are also fathers. For many people, the decision to have a child, which turns out to be seriously ill, impaired, maybe sentenced to a very short life after birth, involves some heroism. In the culture in which we live, we should not be ashamed that this is heroism. Moreover, for most of us Catholics, heroism is a calling. It's not like it's something someone's supposed to impose on someone. This is some challenge that each of us, of course, in our conscience, should be willing to face, I'm talking about calling to heroism. As those who are responsible for social life, we are faced with a situation in which this inner calling of every man to heroic behavior we would like to support a little bit, to come out of a situation where this inner calling, a call of conscience... We wouldn't want it to be a rule of law at the same time. This is what Senator Szymański was talking about, and he was talking about the fact that there are 2 philosophies: either to turn what most of us think is right, into a regulation, coercion, also threatened with criminal sanctions, or simply to support those who are in this difficult situation, with which the only solution seems to be this heroic exit. It's just that there's nothing to be fooled by... Here some of you, from the opposition, have criticized this project somehow, stating that it hasn't been programmed anywhere since the very beginning. Well, it wasn't. But things are changing. And the responsibility of the government, the responsibility of all of us here, but also of all people in general, is to be able to react in a situation that surrounds us and changes. And she's the way she is right now. And there's no need to kid yourself that this approach implemented in this law is to support an alternative, an alternative to abortion. There's no doubt about it. Because it is the support of those people who are facing such a dramatic dilemma. This is backup. so that at least some of them make this decision, which I think there's nothing to be fooled by. It's more or less heroic, and it stays that way. And I think if any of us know the family in which this kind of dilemma appeared The family that Senator Czudowska was talking about, the family that decided to give birth to such a child. This realizes that no state support, no 4,000 PLN, no 104 thousand PLN, no more will replace the act of precisely such a choice, which will always be heroic in the circumstances in which we are in and at a time when we know more and more about it. This alternative is just certain... I mean, giving this alternative is simply a support for the possibility of making a decision that is different from the one that is imposed or imposed, as you might say, a model of life that is more and more common. It's true, isn't it? That is, to go the easy way or the easy way. So many general reflections about the bill. And when it comes to the specifics themselves, you have to realize And I think we all know that. That this is an attempt to make a first step, not a last word and a solution that is to be applied once and for all. The Act announces that the Council of Ministers will prepare a comprehensive support programme. And that's a very important part of this bill. I would like to say, as part of this announcement, that the work in some ministries, including the Ministry of Health, has already begun. You might even say they didn't move as much as they're already advanced. It was mentioned, among other things, the issue of building hospices that are mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen, a perinatal hospice is more a concept than an institution, because, unlike a hospice that includes the care of people who are deadly, dying, it is simply a concept of taking care of people who are faced with such a difficult decision that I have spoken of. Already today we are working on a comprehensive solution, which will start when we confirm the suspicion of such a very difficult situation related to pregnancy. In short, with illness, disability of a child who has not yet been born. This will start from the moment of confirmation, and if this confirmation is actually done, it will mean immediate care for both mom and the entire family facing this very difficult situation. We call it a hospice, but, of course, it's not a matter of staying for this mom in some kind of stationary place, because there's no need at all. Right? Already today, many organizations with the character of perinatal hospices or similar solutions offer such support, but it is simply not organized. And we want to support that. We also want this moment, which I am talking about, to begin comprehensive support during pregnancy, to ensure that appropriate conditions for the birth of such a child are provided. with many flaws that will live even for a little while. To provide such a child or such a family immediately after birth If that's the perspective, a very short perspective on the life of such a child Senator Chudowska said the right conditions to say goodbye. This is a very important part of caring for such a family. And eventually later, in hospice conditions, whether stationary or domestic, to provide care for the child, which, well, does not have such a short perspective after birth. Because there are all kinds of flaws, aren't there? There are children who will live a few moments after birth, and there are ones that will live months, years, and maybe even a very long time and will require care. So this is, you could say, a perinatal hospice. Perinatal, i.e. before birth, at birth and after birth, this means the word. And we are already working on this solution within the National Health Fund. I hope this can be realized. An important element of this law is also the announced informant, who is to prepare the Minister of Health, the informant about what types of support, where, by whom can the family expect in such a very difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a good thing that right here and now this project has come about, and it's a good thing if it's all together. And thank you very much for these statements also from the opposition senators We'll be responsible for him. I think that the term "life' means a lot here and does not require a comment. I will certainly vote in favour, but I also strongly urge all those who have doubts about it... Is that perfect? No, it's not perfect. But is that a good step, in the right direction? I have no doubt about that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogusław Orzechowska will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The introduction of the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families is the implementation of our programme promises. Support for families living is becoming a fact. We gave our word: we will help women who are in the so-called. Tough pregnancy. It will be a comprehensive support programme And it hurts you. Suddenly you have a prescription for everything. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What's wrong with us?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! Quiet, please!]] All of a sudden, we're facing a wall. Where were you? Where were the protests of families of disabled children at Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz? Your government was deaf to these requests. [[That's not true.]] We can't wait any longer because we have to help our families. The support of pregnant women and families for life is one of the elements of this assistance. You say, 4,000 zlotys isn't enough. It's three times the lowest national, it's not that little. This is the money our government can afford right now. We have no intention of acting against life as senators and as people. We want to go after life. Life is priceless. People with disabilities are no worse than those who we consider to be full-time. There are disabled athletes, proven at the Olympics... Our disabled athletes brought 39 medals... [[What about normal people?]] ...persons with disabilities 12. Which... I can tell you right now... [[Not necessarily.]] [[Tell me.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] [[Why don't you want to know?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...9 gold, 18 silver and 12 brown... [[Quiet, please.]] Those were the medals of our disabled athletes. I work with disabled people every day, I work at a clinic, I work at a disability center. I see these kids' problems. I see the problems of adults with disabilities. These are people who can really teach us a lot. These are people who can love, little of it, who can teach that love to everyone around them. I have this patient, this is a girl with Down syndrome. First thing he does when he comes to the office, he comes to hug me. That's what's touching everyone. I've got another one that's actually an adult with cerebral palsy. She's a girl with four-term palsy, but she can read, she can write. Of course it cost her family a lot of work. She corresponds, online, of course, to the computer. Last time I talked her into writing a book. I don't know if she's gonna do it, but I promised if she did, I'd help her out. We have a colleague, Senator Jan Libicki, who is also a disabled person. Nothing's worse than us, not much of it, much of it's better than us, and so am I. I have a friend of a self-government officer who's in a wheelchair. He's got only one hand, but he's a city councilman, he works in foundations, and he's really a very smart man. Let's be alive. I ask you to vote for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I don't think there's any doubt... At least I have no doubt about whether any of us sitting here had any doubts about whether or not we were in favour of life. I don't think there's a dispute about that. I, of course, sign many speeches, unfortunately, under the latter least. I think we all want to... we're happy, we're proud to be able to help families who have disabled children; we're all working with a lot of people with disabilities. And it never occurred to anyone that we should treat them like worse people. That's not the point. This is not the area of discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking because I am making a specific amendment. This amendment concerns the fact that on the one hand... As the Minister said, this is the Secretary of State. And I'll agree with that. The 4,000 zlotys it is actually for the preparation of the arrival of a child with full disability. But, ladies and gentlemen, what's next? We should also answer that question. Because they're beautiful, so to speak, declarations, but correct me if I'm wrong... Well, I don't recall the situation in this bill. Because so far, the bill has been implemented as a result of a government program, an electoral program, that's clear. And here we have the opposite situation. In the bill we commit ourselves to creating a program. Well, for me, it's a completely curial situation in the legislative, legislative sense, because it's always the opposite. We implement the programme through legislation. That's what it's for. That's what the House is for. And not from using the bill as a program that will be prepared by the government for specific laws that are to enter into force. If there were to be certain programs and deadlines, then there was still a way to show this gradual investigation... Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with one thing that was very widely discussed on the occasion of the 500+ programme. What's the big deal? Walking? The point is, if there's one child in the family, a disabled child, it doesn't get any benefits. None! We've got a 500+ program where we're doing the right thing. 500 PLN per child. And for a disabled child, it seems, more should be laid down. Because you know, it's rehab, it's different nutrition, it's access to doctors, etc., etc. That is why I am making a concrete amendment to keep this 4,000 PLN, of course. 'Cause it's a one-time benefit for preparation. But to make a thousand zlotys per person... I will read: For a child who has been diagnosed with severe and irreversible disability or incurable life-threatening illness which arose during the prenatal period of development of the child, during childbirth or early childhood, on the basis of a certificate from a doctor of health insurance, having a specialization of the second degree or a title of specialist in the field of obstetrics and gynaecology, perinatology, neonatology or pediatrics, a monthly benefit of PLN 1000 is payable. It seems, please, that this will at least partially compensate for the injustice that we talked about on the occasion of 500+, that there is nothing for the first child, including the disabled child. Let's... [[Oh, my gosh!]] There's no extras, no, there isn't. Because all these issues related to carers were introduced by us in the previous term of office, which includes. You reminded Senator Augustine. But there is no benefit, and it should be. That is why I believe that the amendment I make on behalf of Senator Grażyna Anna Sztark and my own, absolutely... I'm asking for her support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Stanisław Rooster. [[I'm not going to attack you.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I would really like to thank the government of Beata Szydło for solving social problems comprehensively. Let me put it this way: everyone who wants to choose from this bill will choose. I am full of admiration for parents of disabled children. Dear Lords, to me these mothers and these fathers are silent heroes. I bow to Minister Michałkiewicz, Minister Pinkas, President of PFRON, Mr Kwiatkowski. They're driving and - I can testify. They consult with non-governmental organisations, enter inclusive kindergartens. I run kindergartens like this, and I know... I am admired for tolerance in a kindergarten where children with disabilities help a child who is fit and children who are fit A disabled child. I told the committee at the meeting about children with autism, children with Down syndrome or other diseases. Dear Lords, we should be from these people. As Senator Chudowska said here, A lot, a lot to learn. I remember this auction of works, where powerful businessmen were bidding, fighting for a painting painted by a child suffering from autism. I'm very admired, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm gonna say... No, Mr. Senator Augustine, to brag, Lord God forbid. But here's what I'm gonna say: parents don't want to put their kids in fixed hospices. Minister Radziwiłł, I confirm it. My parents want a doctor, a rehabilitator or a therapist to come home, just like Senator Czudowska said. Because many of these parents can't even get an IV, they can't do a lot of things, but they don't want to give up the baby they love. I watch these kids in kindergartens, in schools, in techniques, and even in universities. There are situations where I said it at the committee meeting. That even 3 children with disabilities are brought to a village for rehabilitation. And I'm watching the heart of these parents, a huge heart for these children. Now that I've informed you that I'm going to build a big facility for people... 'Cause for me, whether he's 18 or 50, is he a child with autism or is he an adult... The point is, when the parents die, they have a permanent residence. And I didn't think there'd be that many calls. I'm so happy for you. Even though I'm here for the fourth term That talks about people with disabilities are beyond political divisions. Because, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, when the Senators bring the child to us, to the hospice, it's no doctor, I bow to the doctors, I don't ask whether this child is pink, green, red, white, go on, I mean political parties And these wonderful doctors, Judy of the homeless, go to these children, go, sometimes selflessly, because they don't take any gold. And let's face this government. I take today as a providence day. I'll tell you why. Not all of them... Today is the first Friday and I was in church. November 4th is St. Charles Brometheus... [[Boromeus.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes. I'm sorry. This is the patron saint. John Paul II as Cardinal of Krakow Karol Wojtyla. I remember that day when people with disabilities in Rome handed over the award of the "Amicus Minorum" Friend of the Minors. John Paul II, 4 November 2004, when Ania's disabled girl gave him this big heart. He looked like that and said that the disabled had finally done something for the disabled. At that time it was known that when it comes to physical matters, it is failing in health, and when it comes to intellectual matters, it is a genius. Dear Lords, let us remember this great, holy pope. When he arrived, he went to a hospice, went to social services homes, went to people with disabilities. Do we remember the Millennium Year? Then he appeared in St. Peter appealed to help people with disabilities. He didn't call for help for multimillionaires, nor for help for disabled people, though at the end of the day It's what God wanted. He was a disabled person. Let's take a look at his holiness, Francis. He comes and goes everywhere to the poorest. Really, these disabled children are wonderful children, wonderful children, and when it comes to parents, they are wonderful parents. And even the 4,000... Mr Pinkas miraculously said at the committee meeting: if it were 40 million, it wouldn't be enough. I'll say, I value these parents for a huge heart. For a huge heart, not for money. My previous speakers, Minister Radziwiłł also, said that many of these parents are not looking at money. But I know how many requests come. They're asking you to give the money for the pampers, give the money for some medicine. Really, that 4,000 zlotys is like a start, a start. I think big things are gonna come out of this. Let's hear what Minister Michałkiewicz said, and in my opinion also a great man with a great heart for these people. If we're gonna get 16 seats in Europe, then... Let's notice the 500+ program, let's see the help. I call for this continuity when it comes to policies towards people with disabilities, so that they are treated as an entity, not as a thing. I, ladies and gentlemen, remember... Let us be glad that in Poland, in our beloved homeland, all these laws have gone so far. Of course I still call for the government's representative to answer directly to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland. We still say at committee meetings that matters concerning people with disabilities should be treated in the same way as they are treated in the United States Constitution. There are 3 pages and everything is included... I bow to wonderful parents, Polish parents of people with disabilities. Thank you for that huge heart. Thank you, Prime Minister, and thank you, ministers. And Minister Radziwill, too, because when was the last time... I was approached by the father of a boy who has a brain glioma. This glioblastoma's renovating, but there was a chance of that boy's surgery in Germany. And I wrote to the Minister asking him to intervene. My dad had a 50% raise. The money for the operation, and the Minister applied to the National Health Fund, signed and the other 50% Don't we notice? I heard about the health center on the way out. Thank God we have the Children's Health Center, that we have a resort in Prokocimi. These children were born and they will be born. These doctors, wonderful Polish doctors, Judy... Thank you for taking care of me. There are doctors who, when a pregnant woman comes to them, and the baby is actually a little sick, offer abortion. Where's the doctor's oath? I know these examples. A young girl says, "I'm Catholic, and please don't tell me." Then he goes to the lab and turns out he's okay. I believe, my dears, that you should... Politics aside, because children with disabilities are sacred. And let's not criticize everything, and let's really approach it in human terms. We all say yes, yes, but somewhere on the side, you can hear the noise. Like many of us, for example. Senator Orzechowska, who is here... When I go to kindergarten, Mr and Mrs Dear, I have full pockets of candy. Why? 'Cause those kids with disabilities, autism, Down's syndrome, they're running around looking for candy. Former Minister Pinkas, former Minister Michalkiewicz... And these children were the first experts to greet the minister and do part with him. Isn't that beautiful? It's wonderful. The Prime Minister may not be able to hear our speeches, but... the Prime Minister, let the entire government keep this up and move towards people with disabilities. Disabled children, you're wonderful! [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I was gonna finish right now. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, dear Senators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u135	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear colleagues, Gentlemen of Ministers! As doctors, we're always for life. This bill... I look at her a little differently. We've been discussing in committee, and there's a rather turbulent discussion in the Senate. Like Senator Rooster said, everyone can choose from any good and less good act. Of course, there will always be bad ones. What is good for me in this bill, and why did I propose to accept it without amendment? Because every bill can be corrected in different ways and for many years, at the end it can be either very good or very bad. I'm not gonna talk about the money. The amounts are not relevant. The important thing is that an initiative has been taken. An initiative in which direction? As far as I'm concerned, it's reducing the number of children with disabilities. Why? Because thanks to the cooperation of the Minister of Health Radziwiłła with Michałkiewicz's Minister of Labour, thanks to the involvement of Minister Pinkas Polska not the resort, but the combined bill issued, under which there will be more money for prenatal research and there will be no restrictions on intrauterine operations. This is, ladies and gentlemen, modern medicine that will reduce the amount of disability. And for me, that is the most beautiful goal that can be achieved. Of course, we will not achieve the total intra- foetal healing of children, but we will try to reduce the number of children with disabilities. I believe that the Act of "For Life..." For me this means: to live with the least disability, therefore I ask the High Senate to adopt this law as soon as possible. Let her come into force, and then we'll correct her. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u136	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Elephant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In short words, I would like to sum up this discussion today and see the most positive accents in it. We have put these accents on various problems: financial problems, and this is the problem of the functioning of people, children with disabilities in society, and this is on legislative issues. I want to believe that each of these voices was due to concern for people with disabilities, for children with disabilities, but also for parents of children with disabilities. I do not suspect that these colleagues who spoke about the need to amend this law, the need to introduce new elements in it, either improving it or supplementing it, have bad intentions. Nor do I suspect that anyone is unaware of the importance of functioning in the modern society of people with disabilities. We don't have to find out. I think that each of us, both with a level of sensitivity and with an objective view of the world... each of us is able to understand how important such people in society are, as a great treasure, to modern society in the 21st century. There were times, not so long ago, that people with disabilities were a cause of shame for families, for local communities. You may remember those times when in our country there was actually no problem of people with disabilities, there were no people in wheelchairs, there were no intellectually handicapped people. We know they were all hidden somewhere. I would like to draw your attention to this aspect, which I believe did not sound very clear and clear today. Well, this law gives hope, gives certainty to parents, to all those who take care of people with disabilities, but also to them themselves, that here the Polish state is able and wants to reach out to all of them, that it will be a hand with more and more help and that we will not leave people in hopelessness. Many Pregnant Situations We're aware of that. It is not only with a pregnancy or a pregnancy that has been found not to develop as necessary, but also with very difficult situations and time, especially for women. We also know about such situations. If there is someone in the way of such a woman in hopelessness who will reach out to her a helping hand, who will set before her some perspective giving hope, it turns out that there is a chance for her and for her child. And there are many such examples, doctors can talk about it, confessors can talk about it. Many of them saved not only this child's life, but also this woman's future life. And it's also a great asset of this bill that we give hope. We probably all want to give Polish women, Poles the hope that they live in a modern country, that we are a parliament that will never raise hands for euthanasia, that everyone in this society can feel safe because there is a place for it. Yes, this several - page bill does not solve all the problems After all, we are also aware of this. There are allegations that it contains proposals for solutions that will be adopted within a certain period of time. And that's also an asset of this bill, because with our foreheads up, we say that we will implement it, that no one in this country will be left behind. Maybe not with the help that will secure all his needs yet, but there is hope that he will be financially and logistically supported. It is also about the fact that if you admit to your disabled citizens, citizens will also feel respect for the fellow citizens who are next to them. And it's gonna become unfashionable to look at people with disabilities with pity. It will become unfashionable if such people cannot find their place in society. That's what I'm talking about. During the occupation, it was especially said that who saves one life as if saving the whole world. I want to believe that if this bill helps to save even one life, it is worth praising. St. Mother Teresa of Calcutta didn't account for the fact that there's no real way of helping anyone that she didn't cure someone, that she didn't give anybody money. Many were grateful to her for simply washing, clothing and hugging them before she died. That's the point. We have a chance to hug parents and people with disabilities. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u138	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must say that I am very pleased that this law has been passed because it is part of my real implementation programme. Not just illusory. The protection of the family and ensuring its proper position. For the family is the foundation that determines the existence of the nation. I am pleased that a dozen years after the AWS programme concerning the family was developed, I had the pleasure of participating in this and Minister Kapera was appointed as a family representative, finally managed to implement... Then, unfortunately, it was not realized. We are now implementing this programme step by step, starting with an increase in family allowances, through the introduction of the 500+ programme and this law on support for pregnant women and families. This is a good start. It is all the more hopeful, since it contains certain programme assumptions of art. 12 and commitments to the Council of Ministers on future action. I think it's a plus, not a negative, dear fellow Counselor Peter, because... the legal standards, as you know. We know that as lawyers. They're of two kinds. Some are the standards that give rise to subjective rights for the parties On the basis of these, you can demand something, enforce something. And the second is the law of a programme nature. I do not see any improperness in the fact that such a programmed standard is included in the article. 12. She's a commitment to the Council of Ministers. On the basis of that article. 12 can be enforced not from anyone else, but from the Council of Ministers to implement this particular programme. It is good that we take care of the people most in need of children with disabilities and their parents, to whom we want to guarantee basic assistance. It not only boils down to that amount of PLN 4 000 in the case of the birth of a child affected by a disability, but also includes many other activities of the nature of medical and social security. This is a beautiful picture of the fact that we are interested in the weakest people who need help. It was beautifully said once by the Holy Father that the measure of civilization is how to treat the weakest people, those who need help. It was beautifully mentioned by my previous speaker, Senator Rooster, and I will not repeat it. This initiative should be applauded and fully supported. I think we all agree on that. The reservations that colleagues from the Civic Platform have raised... I think, in good faith, that they are merely expressing their concern here, because perhaps more should be done. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm from Krakow. We know this proverb: not immediately Krakow was built. You have to start with the foundations. We're building these foundations, and we're going to carry on. Let's hope this works out for us. I encourage all my fellow senators to support this law and lay the foundations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u140	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It's a good thing this bill's being processed. It's a good thing she's being processed quickly. The arguments for this are very nicely presented by the Minister. The aim is to take into account the financial implications, the costs associated with this law in the work on the 2017 budget. Raising the argument at the moment that you had to put it down, wait and so on... In fact, this would lead to a significant delay in the possibility of these solutions entering into force. From this point of view, the Prime Minister, who announced work in this area on 6 October, must be commended. She announced it by the end of October. We have a bill. Today is November 4th, St. Charles Boromeus. I wish all Charles my heartfelt wishes. It is such a moment, the day when, as any signs in heaven and earth indicate, we will pass this law so that it can enter into force according to the timetable that has been provided for. Also valuable is the issue of the government programme to be developed, according to the government declaration, by the end of the year, by 31 December 2016. It should be accepted with great appreciation and joy that in times in which the image of reality is being tried to build on the conflict, there are positive measures being taken in Parliament, with a dimension showing the intentions of the Polish state, and these intentions are obvious. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to return to history. In 1996, it was adopted by the SLD in the Sejm, which then dominated the Sejm and the Senate, so-called. an abortion law which allowed for the exercise of the so-called. the causes of social annihilation of human life in the prenatal phase until the 12th week. This law passed in the Seym, passed in the Senate, then signed by the then president Alexander Kwasniewski. People who were concerned about protecting human life in their heart took action in a democratic state of law. It was then held, in 1996, one of the biggest manifestations after 1989 in Poland, with the participation of tens of thousands of people It was a march for life. I had the opportunity to participate in it, I remember the situation very well, and that atmosphere. And this law would enter into force, but the application was submitted to the Constitutional Tribunal and the Constitutional Tribunal, which was chaired by Professor Andrzej Zoll of Krakow, a lawyer from the family of law for generations, took up this subject and repealed it in his judgment. Interestingly, it was not only from the constitutional standard, in which it is written that every citizen has the right to live, but also from the general principle which states that Poland is a democratic state of law, from which it brought out the legal scope of protection of human life also in its prenatal phase, i.e. in the period before birth. This is a fundamental sentence, which is enough to trace all the discussions that have emerged in recent months. He didn't really stay until today. Since the 1993 Act, or indeed subsequent amendments, is in fact contrary to this provision of the Constitutional Tribunal. There may be different actions of the state. There may be criminal actions, i.e. negative standards that prohibit something from being sanctioned, but there may also be positive actions promoting certain attitudes, respect for life, respect for people who are affected by illness, respect for the weakest, respect for the elderly, respect for those who simply need support and care. It was already quoted here at St. John Paul II, but this is a generally known principle that the measure of civilization is recognized by what is the relationship of this civilization to life when it is the weakest. And the weakest is in the prenatal phase and in the phase when the aged age is reached and for biological reasons the body is weakened. Unfortunately, this element is missing in all these discussions. All this debate, which has fallen through in Poland in recent months, has been political in nature, has not been substantive in nature and has been based on a lie. On a lie or on a manipulation that forged the basic truth, known today in medical science, namely that we know the moment when new, separate human life begins, begins another human person, a separate human being, with the genetic traits he will have at his beginning in his genetic code at the next moments of his biological development. Few of this, recently doctors at Oxford University have discovered that the human heart begins to beat and act on the sixteenth day since its conception, from the start of a new human life. Manipulating that knowledge and saying that you don't really know when you start, that in this early phase it's kind of nebula. the collection of cells and actually it is not known what it is for being, well, it is obviously false, because also civil law defines laws that already have such a new man who has not yet been born, e.g. inheritance rights. Right? [[I admit it.]] I address Mr. Counselor Silence here, who nods his head and confirms this fact. So, High Izbo, I am glad that the Polish government has proposed a positive standard that the Polish government has proposed solutions which, in my deep conviction, will increase respect for human life and will also point out as a very positive feature of concern for those who need it most and who, unfortunately, have been often treated as unnecessary and unnecessary burden for years. And from this point of view, I would like to thank the Government, the Minister and Minister Radziwiłł, the Senator, the Senator's colleague... [[...the jury.]] ...the jury for these solutions and for these actions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u142	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Piotr Zientarski and Marshal Grażyna Sztark. The discussion is closed. Is the representative of the government, Minister Krzysztof Michałkiewicz, willing to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Krzysztof Michałkiewicz: Thank you, I don't want to.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u143	Message. The joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health on the consideration of the requests submitted at the twenty-nineth Senate meeting to the Act on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families will take place today 20 minutes after the adjournment in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u144	I've tried to negotiate a shorter break, but if you can't, I'm announcing an hour's break by 7:50. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 50 to 19 minutes 51]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u145	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 310 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission, at its meeting on 4 November 2016, considered the conclusions made during the debate on 3 November 2016 on the Law amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws and presented the following position to the High Senate: The Senate is ready to adopt amendments 1 At the same time, it is proposed that some of the amendments to the Act amending the Payment Services Act and some other laws vote jointly. These are legislative amendments Nos 1 and 25, 27, 28, 30, 32, 47, 49, 55, 57 and 61, 63 and 68, 70 and 75 and 77 and 82. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u147	Thank you very much. If I don't hear any objection, I'll assume the High House has accepted the senator's proposal. I don't hear any objections. Does Senator Kazimierz Kleina still want to speak? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on Amendment 1. Am I supposed to read all the corrections? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Only numbers.]] Just numbers... Yeah, but I'm supposed to read the numbers, right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, ladies and gentlemen. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, etc., until 25? Press the button on the button. [[Voice from the room: But just like this?]] [[Voice from the room: Against!]] [[Voice from the room: 1 and 25, 27...]] And all those corrections? [[Voice from the hall: Yes, all at once.]] Oh, all of them. Oh, I didn't know that. I'm the one who has to read this, ladies and gentlemen. [[No, no.]] No, no. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry, with all due respect, you used to be a marshal, and now I am, and I'm going to read what I'm supposed to read. [[But he figured it out, yeah.]] Who is in favour of amendments Nos 1 and 25, 27, 28, 30, 32, 47, 49, 55, 57 and 61, 63 and 68, 70 and 77?82? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all voted in favour. [[Voting No 10]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 26. Amendment 26 aims to clarify that, in the case of a basic payment account, fees for the execution of national payment transactions may be charged after 5 such transactions have been executed by the consumer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 29 clarifies that the supplier in connection with the underlying account will be able to charge charges for cross-border transactions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 31 seeks to ensure that, even if the basic payment account contract is terminated with immediate effect, the supplier is obliged to inform the consumer of his ability to exercise his rights in connection with the termination of the contract and of the out-of-court dispute settlement procedures. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 48 aims to ensure that the rules on the transfer of accounts also refer to the transfer of an account within the same supplier. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 56 harmonises the rules for the transmission of information and documents to the National Bank of Poland, adopting information and documents, including applications, in electronic form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 62 and 76 should be voted on together. They harmonise the rules on fines for not providing a basic payment account service and for not allowing the transfer of payment accounts foreseen for banks and cooperative savings and credit banks and set maximum penalties of PLN 500 000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 30 for, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendments 62 and 76 were rejected. Amendment 69 extends the powers of the President of the NBP and allows him to request, in addition to documents, information on the links between entities determining the rules for the execution of settlement orders relevant to systemic risk. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 83 aims to ensure that the revision of the model for the calculation of supervisory costs by national payment institutions enters into force on 1 January 2018 and not after 60 days from the date of publication of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. We return to the second agenda: the National Tax Administration Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 312 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u148	Mr Marshal, the committee at its meeting on 4 November considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 3 November on the National Tax Administration Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to accept the proposals set out in point II, paragraph 1 and 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Krzysztof Mróz. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the rejection of the proposal to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 7 and 15 delete the arrangements for the National Tax Administration to carry out tasks in the field of control of persons and baggage at airports. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 2 clarifies that, in the case of certain offences, it is also the task of the tax administration to combat these offences and not just to identify and detect them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 Senators voted, 81 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 deletes normative unnecessary word. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 84 senators, 33 votes against, 50 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 3 has been deleted. Amendments 4 and 5 should be voted on together. They assume that the head of the customs and treasury office is the competent authority to consider the appeal brought against the decision taken by that authority to transform the customs and treasury control into a tax proceeding and is not competent to appeal against the decision to safeguard customs and tax duties. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] Amendments 4 and 5 were accepted. Amendment 6 complements the catalogue of operations to which the head of the customs and treasury office is entitled, with regard in particular to the purchase of the controlled one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 votes against, 52 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 8 assumes that the Central Register of Taxation Data is managed by the head of the KAS and not by the minister responsible for public finances. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 9 correlates the provisions of the KAS Act with the Excise Tax Act, prejudicing that the right to store excise goods in a single container also concerns customs-credit control. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 29 votes against, 53 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 10 clarifies the reference so that it refers both to slots and equipment for gambling activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 11 in the provision on the possibility of amending the tax return deletes the claim that the correction cannot be made before the notification of the adjustment is served. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 12 corrects a vague, too broad reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 13 and 14 delete normative unnecessary words. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 55 for, 27 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the National Tax Administration Act. We would like to return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the National Tax Administration. A meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place in the proceedings, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 313 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! At its meeting on 4 November, the Commission considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 3 November on the Law implementing the National Tax Administration Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is to accept the proposals set out in points 1, 3 and 18 of Section II, 20, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29, 31, 32, 34.36, 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 47.50, 52, 53, 55, 57.59 and 61. In addition, the committee shall inform that under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Senate Rules of Procedure Senators Grzegorz Bierecki and Krzysztof Mróz changed the content of their conclusions, points II, points 18 and 55 of the table of conclusions. The consequence of these changes is the addition of a new amendment to point II.50 of the table of proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that during the discussion the senators Piotr Florek, Grzegorz Bierecki and Krzysztof Mróz submitted their conclusions. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The previous law, as well as this one, is, I must say, the world championship. And I'm gonna put it in sports. 'Cause that's firing people from the bill. You know that 65,000 people, 65,000 employees, officers will be eagerly waiting for the next few months to see if they will receive the conditions for admission to work again. So it's an exemption by law, 65,000 employees. [[Oh, no.]] Of course, if they get those terms, they don't. But that's what it looks like today. And I just wanted to remind you. Thank you. [[Theoretically, it's just that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u153	We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 7, 8, 12, 18, 20, 22, 24, 27, 29, 34, 36, 38, 40, 43, 45, 50, 53 and 55 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 19, 21, 23, 25, 28, 30, 37, 39, 41, 44, 46, 51, 54 and 56. We are voting on Amendments 1, 7, 8, 12, 18, 20, 22, 24, 27, 29, 34, 36, 38, 40, 43, 45, 50, 53 and 55. They assume that the date of entry into force of the Act will be postponed to 1 March 2017 and that the necessary consequences will be imposed on the earlier entry into force of the provisions relating to the change of the name of the tax chambers itself to tax administrations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the amendments mentioned above have been accepted. Amendment 3 provides for the possibility to challenge the order not only within the time-limit from which it was served but also from the publication of the procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 3 was accepted. Amendment 4 provides for an editorial adjustment of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 5, 6, 9, 15, 49, 52 and 61 should be voted together. They delete the arrangements for the National Tax Administration to carry out tasks in the field of control of persons and baggage at airports. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, amendments 5, 6, 9, 15, 49, 52 and 61 were accepted. Amendment 10 provides for an increased rate of interest for late payment in the event of a reduction in the tax liability disclosed in the course of the customs-subsistence check and thus adopts an equivalent arrangement under the same Article for the correction of declarations and the failure to make declarations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 harmonises the rules in the case of tax avoidance where the head of the NSA is competent. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 takes into account that the Central Register of General Plenipotentiaries is maintained by the Head of the KAS and thus harmonises the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 provides for an editorial adjustment of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 16 takes account of the fact that only officers form the Customs and Card Service and should therefore make a illustrative statement, alongside the Customs and Card Service Officer, not every employee, but only an employee employed in the KAS. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 17 limits the wording of the provision to the actual amendment so as to avoid a collision with the Law on the amendment of the Government Administration Departments, which the Senate is considering in parallel. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 26, with a view to properly dedicating the intention of the legislator, assumes that the head of the tax office becomes a body of the KAS and not that such an authority is re-created by the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 31 assumes that the possibility of transferring to the tax administration responsible for the place of residence may be exercised by an officer who will receive both a new job proposal and a new service proposal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 33 against, 51 against. [[Voting No 45]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 32 and 58 should be voted together. They add adjustment provisions that define the first setting-up of new KAS bodies and confirm the principle of continued duties by the chief tax office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 30 for, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] Amendments 32 and 58 were rejected. Amendments 33 and 60 add adjustment provisions which define for the first time the setting-up of new KAS bodies and confirm the principle of continued duty by the head of the tax office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 21 votes against, 54 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 47]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 35 harmonises the transitional provisions for tax inspectors. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 82 senators, 31 votes against, 50 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 48]] The amendment has been removed. Amendment 42 corrects the provision by indicating in which law the editorial unit referred to is in. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 47 correctly sets out the relationship between the temporarily maintained Regulation and its equivalent to the KAS Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 81 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 47 was accepted. Amendment 48 in the provision temporarily maintaining the existing implementing acts correctly sets out the basis for the new regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 48 was accepted. Amendment 57 to the earlier entry into force of the provisions on the representative for the organisation of the KAS and the representative for the setting up of the KAS IT Centre provides that an earlier provision should also enter into force on the subject of those agents to the Head of the KAS. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 81 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 57 was accepted. Amendment 59 to the Act establishing the Head of the NSA and granting him specific tasks still in 2016 provides for the early entry into force of the provision on the financing of its activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 53]] Amendment 59 was accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 55 votes against, 29 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the National Tax Administration. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals presented during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject, is in print No 293 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration held on 4 November 2016, the committees considered the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 3 November 2016 on the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws. The Commission shall present the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 1 and 2 of Section II. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u155	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the discussion, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek and Senator Stanisław Gogacz submitted their conclusions. [[Voices from the room: No.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 1 for, 80 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 modifies the composition of the National Council of the Centre for Research and Development in such a way that the representative of the Minister responsible for Development is not a permanent member of the Council but can participate in its work with an advisory voice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, 56 for, 27 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 2 deletes the provision amending the Energy Efficiency Act of 15 April 2011, as that law has expired on the basis of Article. 59 of the Energy Efficiency Act of 20 May 2016. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 55 for, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 57]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 55 for, 29 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 295 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Social Security System. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions Act and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 296 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u156	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has examined proposals for amendments to the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits tabled by Senator Jan Rulewski. Following a vote in which 4 senators were in favour and 2 against, the Commission requests that the law be adopted without amendment. During the committee's work, minority proposals were tabled regarding the amendments tabled by Senator Rulewski. The rapporteur for minority proposals is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The aim of this good law is to ensure that, once care obligations for disabled persons have ceased, carers can benefit from the instruments contained in the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market in order to facilitate their return to working life. For reasons we really do not know, this possibility is limited only to the situation in which this person, this person, dies or loses the status of a person in need of care. And what about when someone, for example. Find someone else in the family to take care of and want to go back to the labour market? Turns out his bill doesn't cover it anymore. What if he decided at some point? I think we'd all applaud it. Resign 1 thousand 410 zlotys of care provision and return to work? Don't we want to help people like that? I really don't get it. It seems to me that such situations should absolutely be taken into account. Then this law would fully implement the objective pursued by it. That is why I appeal to the Senators of the majority in power on this matter, because we support the intentions of this law, we believe it is right, and I would like to count on understanding, believing that we will fully achieve the purpose of this law, including those who willingly wish to return to the labour market after they have ceased to care.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Jan Rulewski still want to speak? [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There isn't. Yeah, I can see that. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy supported by a committee to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 54 votes against, 11 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions and the Act on Pre-retirement Benefits. We are back to discussing item 14 of the agenda: the Law on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families. The meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, which is in print No 315 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Health. Committees meeting on 4 November they considered the conclusions made during the debate on 4 November 2016 on the Law on the Support of Pregnant Women and Families (For Life). They present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate is ready to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? [[Yes.]] I will name the names, and then there will be reports: Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Piotr Zientarski and Senator Grażyna Sztark. Senator Piotr Zientarski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you to vote against the law without amendment. [[Why, Counselor?]] I would argue that this is a position concerning... which I have put forward... The vote against the proposal for a law without amendments is not a vote against the law, it is only an opportunity to make it possible for the Senators of the Civic Platform to accept the amendments, in particular by Senator Štark and me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is about Amendments 4 and 8, which will enable a disabled family not to benefit from the 500+ programme to obtain PLN 100 per month. I stress that this is about a family child who does not benefit from the 500+ program. The adoption of these amendments, I want to make this clear on behalf of the Civic Platform, will mean that... and we will vote differently than in the case of a proposal for a law without amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the other Senators previously mentioned who have submitted their applications wish to speak? No. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 56 votes against, 22 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the support of pregnant women and families. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21st Senate meeting has been exhausted. There's so many people to make statements, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] The next Senate meeting will be held on 15 and 16 November 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on senators' statements. Would any of your senators like to speak? First Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. This will be a statement on the 60th anniversary of the creation of the Kashubian-Pomeranian Association. It will be delivered in Kashubian, but I will also join the Polish version for understanding, as requested by the marshal before the announcement. Tczëwôrtnô Madam Prime Minister! 60 years ago, on 28 June 1956, the Association of Kaszëbsczé, pôrã lat later przejinachoné was founded at Kaszëbskò-Pòmòrsczé. Ju 2 gòdbéł sã pierszi zjozd delegates new stowôrë. All this has taken place on dënëga pòstannowczi zelji. This Karno kasëbsczich kashëbschich kashëjir, ò baro majitëch festivities, one chùtchi cerpielë in Stutthof, jinszi na robòtach, eats jinszi bëlë having fought in the army's power to abò to serve in the Výschi village at Zôpadá òdó pòkòrë and a common regional matter to settle and to establish the good of all the inhabitants of Pòmòrzégò. Kashëbë w ółce wÅlë areaã pògranczégò, z czegò wëchôdało zakryzanie kùltur, wzógôcanié tradicji i integrégò chwatu, alé téż diskriminacjô z rozmajtëch strón, pònizanié and wëzwëskòwanié, and in the nôgòrszi trialsë pôrãnôsce tëssccharami pòmòrdowónëch in Piôsznicë, Szpãgawský, Stuttofie and jinszich môlach martirologii. Bëlo so temù, bò w kóżdim kóżdijów Kaszëbë wwiedno. acknowledged by the author of ourégò hisnu Jeronima Derdowsczégò. trzimelë with the Catholic and pòlschim nôrodã, who cared for ò swòjã jawernotã, and òsoblëwie ò his Slaviczzi jãzëk kazëbsczi. For 60 years, Kashëbskò-Pòmòrsczé The Association has tried to make these two-century wôrtnotë, chòc time to these not bëlë letczé, òsoblëwie drãjé sztótë Gòdnik 1970 part of Stón. The equator of the well-known association stood on guards of men, òsoblëv demòkraticznëch in our spòlëznë. Kò did not make the difference that almost in Stocznia Gduńsczi, in chtërny pòlovã zaczcë, was the beginning of demòkraticznëch transformations in Pòlska, and the Westrzód nôbarżi deserved the same time on the breast môlu nót je wëmieniec Lech Bądkòwsczégò, and at this time the priest Fr. Washing. Hilarégò Jastaka, míchi òdwôgã jic to shipbuilders in Gdini and jakno pierzi in the history of the Polish People's Republic òdrightic jima a mass in the baro dangerous sztërki of our country. In Pòlschi and our 60-year-old stowôrë. Mr Kaszëbskò-Pòmòrsczé Associations, like the judna jinszô ògranizacjô at Pòmòrzim, has joined the demòkratical and self-government of Pòlschi. For the wiertel of the century, the bishops of the Bishops of Pòmòrzégò, the òpiart of òsoblë on the bògatim of historical Kaszëbów, the chtërns of war on these zemi òd pòkòlenii, for one and a half years. Kashëbi's swòji òtemkłoscë sætím with all of them, whither pójjny kwelt kwarovôl almost on this stone. Each year you have a common pòmòrská jawernotã. Tajczé dzijanié sprówiô, that the corôz wiâcy between and corôz chãtni gôdô ò se that they are Kaszëbama from wëbòr, independent of òd tegò, je môl pòchònkù their old people. Sóblëwie to sã dôwô òdczëc na Zôpadny Pòmòrzim, dlô chtërnégò wroscenié w tradicjã and ùszłotã je nôbarji wôrtné i brëkòwné. The Kashëbskò-Pòmòrsczé Association is the Kòl 6 threshers, parliamentarians, self-governments, gazettes, schools, governments, bismóns, parishes and rëbôks. Ni ma dëcht żódny wôżniészi pòdjimiznë in the region, in chtërny bë has not been established by association. It is almost one of the most important buildings in Pòlska nadôvô drójs tón wiszoscë wëdarzenióm ò kulturalny, educational, in the region of Gòspòdarczim, òbliczim. In 60-lecé stowôrë porënôlégô sã òddac tczã tim all over the board, chtërny òdeszlë already to eternity, and chtërny mielë his belny djél in the self-righteous and demòkratical Pòlschi. Wiôlgô dzãka prënôlégô sã téż in all parts, the yachts are the ò znaczënkù and the bëlne dgianim Kaszëbskò-Pòmòrsczégò Associations. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u165	Thank you. Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u166	Thank you very much. This is a statement addressed to Mrs Beata Szydło, President of the Council of Ministers. Dear Prime Minister, In recent days, tax offices have blocked accounts of many companies that have fallen victim to the fraud Zdzisław K. offering the so-called service for several years. staff outsourcing. This form was mainly used by small and medium-sized companies with seasonal employment. They have concluded agreements in accordance with the law and in good faith with legal entities. Invoices paid by entrepreneurs for the employee outsourcing service included all labour costs, i.e. ZUS contributions and payroll taxes. No State authority has stated that this form of organisation of employment is illegal or apparent. Zdzisław K. for years did not comply with the obligation to pay ZUS contributions and then with such saved money moved to Switzerland. The tax authorities withdrew their invoices from the legal circulation and considered that they did not exist and thus adjusted the taxes due. During the period of operation of Zdzisław K. on the market of outsourcing services, tax offices and ZUS knew very well that it did not pay the relevant charges. The cheated entrepreneurs didn't have that knowledge, and even if they tried to get it, there would be a tax secret. The Supreme Audit Chamber carried out an audit on this subject, the outcome of which is clear. It was entrepreneurs who became victims of outsourcing companies Zdzisław K. for allowing people responsible for the proper functioning of the state authorities. The investigation is also conducted by the Wrocław Public Prosecutor's Office. Despite the failure to complete prosecutorial proceedings, which have a decisive impact on the situation of entrepreneurs, tax offices have blocked accounts of fraudulent companies and collect their debts, which should, after all, be collected from Zdzisław K. The activities of tax authorities can lead to the collapse of several hundred Polish companies, which involves the loss of thousands of jobs. I ask the Prime Minister to help save Polish companies cheated over the past years by Zdzisław K. with the passive attitude of the then state officials. Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Marek Pęk signed the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. The next speaker will be Senator Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By contacting voters and discussing in co-created environments of Polish civil society, I gain an image of the well-being of Polish families. I find reasons for optimism, but also concern, so I decided to make this statement. I direct them to parliamentarians, local governments, people of science, media workers and social leaders, to all those who feel special responsibility for the Polish family because of their social function. In our country, understanding for the need to strengthen the family as a basic community now declares almost all the environments. In recent years, there has been a significant effort to introduce family solutions. Parents see brighter prospects when it comes to childhood. Still with some disbelief, but increasingly they see the Polish state as an ally who is able to really appreciate and value the efforts of their parenthood. At the same time, there is a low level of security and a low level of social trust in Polish families and in society. People are afraid of international tensions, but also of tensions in our social life. Polish families painfully experience multiple divisions and political conflicts. Emotional discussions run through social groups, work teams and family homes. In the interest of peace at the family table, many important social topics are not discussed at all and become part of the family taboo. For this reason I address all those who play a leading role in the Polish political community and civil society. Let us seek mutual respect. By stressing our own view, let us not lose sight of what we have in common. Witches in dispute. Let us not impudate each other's views that are not ours. Instead of digging more ditches, let's focus on competing in the invention and implementation of good solutions. By generalising and simplifying, we will teach future generations of cynicism and discourage ourselves from engaging in every important matter. Polish families need from their elite an atmosphere conducive to raising children to good and righteous citizens. While caring for material security, let us at the same time take care of a better, kinder and calmer social atmosphere. A reduction in the temperature of a political dispute will be our concrete expression of kindness and support for the family, which we are so eager to declare in public at times. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Arthur Warzocha to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u170	Dear Marshal! Due to the lack of official information on the subsequent fate of the historical plaques from the former Polish House in Vienna at Boerhaavegasse 25 in the third district of Vienna, which are a thank-you vote for the recovery of Lviv, Warsaw and Vilnius and for the release of Galicia, Poland and Lithuania from Russian captivity, I kindly ask the Marshal to help me determine the current facts. Thanks to my intervention made through Mr Marshal in January this year, ministers of foreign affairs, science and higher education, culture and national heritage decided to bring plaques to Warsaw, where they were to be exhibited in the Museum of Polish History created today. For the first time in Poland they were to be exposed to the public during the inauguration of the Night of Museums in Warsaw in June 2016. As soon as these decisions were taken, there were protests of individuals living permanently in Austria for several years. These people began demanding from the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and from the director of the Polish History Museum to return tables of the Science Station of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Vienna, which so far held the mentioned plates in the basement. These people, claiming to be representatives of the Austrian Polonia, reached the public authorities with their demands, which effectively prevented the whole project from being carried out. At present, the same people are taking action in Vienna to bring commemorative plaques to the capital of Austria, trying to involve representatives of our diplomatic and consular services, representatives of Polish Polish organizations and foreign offices of the Polish state, although in a formal and legal sense there is no entity that could be regarded as the owner of these boards. At the same time, the same people are beginning to argue that the Polish state is not properly concerned with commemorative boards, because they are not properly exposed, it is not known whether they have been maintained or properly stored and their fate is properly unknown to the public. It is worth mentioning, by the way, that for more than 30 years, neither of these persons nor anyone outside this group was interested in the plates. Only the authorities of the Polish Forum in Austria, in the person of the President, Teresa Kopeć, after taking information about the fate and place of storage of historical plaques, immediately took action in the parliamentary forum, which resulted in my intervention mentioned earlier. The Forum authorities have also personally committed themselves to organizing the safe transport of plates to Poland, which exposed themselves to the unpleasantness of these people, including accusations of alleged removal of plates under cover of the night, identical to the theft of plates, which was not true. Personally, I think the plates are in the right hands now, and their legal status is beyond doubt. However, the dragging situation of not making public information about their fate creates room for concern and unauthorised debates about them. My statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Stanislaw Gogach to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u172	Thank you very much, Marshal. The senator's statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Minister! The inhabitants of Łukowa and the district of Łukow using trains of the Mazowieckie Railways, Regional Transports and PKP InterCity repeatedly and unfortunately have so far been unsuccessful in asking for the return of tickets to the station PKP Łuków. The railway junction of Łuków supports connections to Dęblin, Siedlec, Warsaw and towards Terespol. Used to be ticket companies sold tickets for all calls. There isn't even one money at the moment. This is the case from 1 October 2014. I would like to mention that in addition to selling tickets at the cashiers, of course, we were happy to provide information about train running throughout Poland. Currently, passengers from the district of Łukow using the station PKP are deprived of such and other information, which is a huge obstacle for them in view of the constant changes in train timetables. Most travelers try to buy a train ticket It often happens that they are queuing up for a ticket on a speeding train. In addition to the arguments put forward... In the near future, there will be a situation that should make the operation of ticket offices at the PKP Łuków station obvious. The situation is such that the modernisation of the railway line S7 Lublin will begin Dęblin .Warsaw. When this line is modernized, trains currently going from Lublin to Warsaw through Dęblin will take a different route and just this other route will be the route leading through Łuków Parczew. It seems that this fact should make it possible to take action to restore ticket registers in Łukow. I would like to ask the Minister for information on the situation presented. Stanisław Gogacz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the City of Opole Arkadiusz Wiśniewski. Dear Mr. President, I am attentive and sympathetic to your projects and tasks for the development of Opole. I was particularly interested in the series of events planned by the city authorities to celebrate the eight hundredth anniversary of Opole's location next year. As part of the celebrations, the monument of Kazimierz I Opole, the Piast prince who made the first location of Opole, was planned to be unveiled on the market next to the town hall. The location, form and circumstances of the building of this monument, its visibility I find particularly valuable for reminding and perpetuating in the general awareness of the fact of the Polish Piast origin of the city of Opole. I congratulate the President on his idea and support his successful implementation. I would like to draw your attention to another initiative related to the rapidly approaching 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence in 1918. The city of Opole will certainly be involved in a wide range of events and events organized on this occasion. It would be advisable that, just as after the celebration of the eight hundredth anniversary of the Uprising of Opole, the centenary of Poland's rebirth should remain permanent in the city in the form of commemoration, especially since there are very few monuments erected in Opole to commemorate 1918; there is only one in Opole itself. In 2008, on the occasion of the 90th anniversary of regaining independence, the bust of Marshal Piłsudski was set up in the building of the city office, but it is not widely available. Much earlier, Mr Andrzej Mazur, Councilman of the Opolskie Voivodeship, paid attention to the lack of commemoration of Poland's regaining independence. However, his appeals did not find a proper response among the authorities of the Opolskie Voivodeship, perhaps by such, and not by another composition of the Seym coalition. Only the change of power in the city of Opole increased the chance to see this problem and to respond accordingly. I myself as a senator I believe that in the city of Opole, the capital of the region, there should be a permanent commemoration of the centenary of Poland's regaining independence in 1918. It would be part of Polish historical policy which is particularly important in the Opole region. The perfect place to erect such a monument would be the theatre square, specifically the square in front of the main entrance to the Theatre. Jan Kochanowski. The form of commemoration, rather symbolically indistinguishable of a single figure, should reflect all trends that contributed to the creation of Poland in 1918. It could be more allegorical due to its cultural surroundings, supported by appropriate lighting and shaping the area surrounding the square so that without losing the historical message, the monument of the century of the rebirth of the Polish state in Opole became another distinguishing mark of the city, a place of rest willingly visited by its inhabitants and tourists. The investor of this commemoration should be the city of Opole. First of all, because of the owner of the area where the memorial would be built. Secondly, because Opole is the richest local authority in the region to bear the investment costs. And thirdly, because of being the capital of the region. It is the town of Opole that has the task of setting cultural trends, in this case of education, and the role of guardian of patriotism in the region. I ask you to answer whether you share my observations and views described above and how the city of Opole could involve itself in this or undertake to implement this initiative of permanent commemoration in Opole of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-04-senat-29-2.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Senator Secretary has no messages to read. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-nineth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The twenty-nineth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you. [[Meeting adjourned at 20 minutes 56]]
