ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u1	I open the 16th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Rafał Ambrozik to the meeting. Dear Senators, on 19 April 2016, Władysław Papżyński, Senator of the First term of office from Legnica Voivodeship, member of the Committee on National Economy and then the Committee on Agriculture died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of Senator Władysław Papżyński. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Voices from the hall: And let eternal light shine unto him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Voices from the room: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Dear Senators, I inform you that the Sejm at its 16th meeting on 13 and 14 April 2016 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act on the Safety of Trading in Explosive Precursors and to the Act on Stopping Sale of Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on amending certain laws. In addition, the Sejm adopted most of the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, as well as to the Act amending the Act on explosives intended for public use and certain other laws. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the twelfth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 13th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point 10 of the draft agenda for a draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, although the report of the Senate Committee on this matter has been submitted at a later date than set out in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of item nine of the agenda: the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub z Paradyza w Gorzów Wielkopolski and consider it as point two. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see or hear opposition. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, printing No. 137 and considering it as point twelve; the second reading of the draft resolution on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising and considering it as a point of the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Here you go, Senator. Here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, if we're not done, I mean we won't finish the agenda by 8:00 p.m., I'd like to ask for a break on behalf of our club from 8:00 to 9:00 p.m. for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u3	Okay, we'll announce a recess at 8:00. On order, ladies and gentlemen. 'Cause the question was, is anybody okay... But it wasn't about the agenda, that's how I understand it, so there's no conclusion on the agenda. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 16th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition. Tomorrow the session starts at 9 a.m. and from 12 a.m. to 2 p.m. the session will be adjourned. There may also be a break in the proceedings from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m. today, if necessary. Anyway, we'll keep that in mind. I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u4	A reminder of the obligation to make a statement of assets. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. on the obligation to make a statement on the assets before 30 April. This declaration shall be submitted in duplicate as at 31 December 2015, adding to each copy of the annual tax return PIT. This obligation arises from the provisions of Article. The 35th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and the model statement on the assets is annexed to that Act. You will also find a model statement on the senate website, on the sub-page of the Senator's mandate. I ask you to fill in each section of the statement carefully and completely. The completed forms of the property statement must be submitted in person to the Senator's Office, room 257B, or sent by post. It's the date of the postmark that counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u5	Thank you very much. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development's information on the implementation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's Action Programme for the years 2015 and 2019. The text of the information was provided to you by electronic means and to the senator's lockers. I would like to welcome the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, present at the meeting. Hello, Minister. I ask the Minister to take the floor and present the information. Of course, I also welcome the people who came with the Minister, the other ministers; I will no longer mention the names, but I welcome all of you very warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present information on the planned activities of the Ministry of Agriculture, in principle the government, because the government is a single body, and on behalf of the government, I have the pleasure of conducting matters related to the three departments of government administration, i.e. agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets. After taking up the function of minister, we have prepared an action programme in the Ministry of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, because this chatter is bothering the Minister and all of us with the receipt of information. Quiet, please.]] ...which is based on the agricultural programme of Law and Justice, which we presented in President Andrzej Duda's campaign, and in the campaign for parliament. As we know, we have quite a lot of support for the countryside and we want to implement this programme consistently, while also giving Parliament the reports of the work that we are doing, as well as answering questions, explaining issues that may be controversial, because there is a possibility here to address it directly. We have assessed 8 years of operation of the Civic Platform of the Polish People's Party. You received all the information in this document, which you have received and, I hope, provided. Today I'm not going to talk about evaluating these eight years. Such a debate took place, it takes place all the time. Today I will talk about the idea of our actions and current issues, problems that are currently being solved in the Ministry. Our programme assumes that agriculture should be economically, ecologically and socially stable, rural areas should be a place to live and work for people. That's the primary objective. We have 8 areas where action is being taken to stabilise agriculture and rural development. This government has adopted a principle different from that of that term, namely that agriculture and food production are the strategic tasks of the state. These are not tasks only of the Ministry of Agriculture, but of the whole government, which is reflected in all government documents. Surely you are familiar with the so-called Morawiecki programme concerning the economic development of Poland. In this program we entered as one of the pillars The government has decided to do so. Rural areas, i.e. regional policy and agricultural development, as well as the rural pact. These basic areas... Minister Zarudzki will present in a moment the most important actions that we had to do in the area of direct payments, this was a subject that has been presented differently to the public over the past few months. And what we are doing in connection with the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. The first area is the common agricultural policy and international cooperation. The aim we set ourselves here is to ensure a level playing field for Polish farmers. As you know, these conditions are not equal. The agreement adopted in 2003 on Poland's accession to the European Union in some sense discriminated against our farmers, villagers, which the Polish Sejm in 2011 unanimously expressed in a resolution which indicated that the government, then the government, would take measures to compensate for direct payments in Poland to the European average. Having taken up function 2, the main markets in which the crisis is taking place have been the subject of my action. And they're still here. I am talking here about the milk market, the pork market, and also partly about the soft fruit market. We have decided to launch an extraordinary support programme, allocating nearly PLN 250 million to interventions or compensations that are currently being paid; they are to be paid by the end of May. The situation in the milk and pigmeat markets is very difficult throughout Europe. I have already attended four meetings of the Agriculture Ministers' Council. In December, at our request, a debate was launched in the Council on this difficult situation. And that's when the trial started... Practically all countries supported Poland's request to take action in these 2 markets. By mid-February, all countries had submitted requests or proposals for intervention, with a total of 100 proposals, of which the Commission accepted, submitted 17 proposals for further arrangements and detailed work. In mid-June, i.e. in the second part of June there will be agreements on an ongoing basis in the framework of negotiations, work, various meetings, because we have bilateral meetings with different countries... Tomorrow, for example. I will be at a meeting in the Czech Republic within the Visegrad Group, where we want to adopt a common position in this area. At the request of France, a meeting will take place in Warsaw on 9 June as part of the Weimar Triangle. France has proposed that Germany and Poland adopt a common position in this regard. I hope that this will work in a number of points, which will, of course, make it easier to adopt solutions later at the ministerial council meeting which will significantly facilitate the functioning of these markets. So the decisions in this area, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, will be in the second half of June. Further action is certainly needed in the framework of the review of the common agricultural policy. We have developed a position in this area in the framework of the review of the common agricultural policy, as well as a position on the common agricultural policy after 2020. We are now at the agreement stage, working with experts. I think by mid-May these positions will be announced. Our main objective is to ensure that there is a level playing field in the European single market. It is also a priority to simplify the system of spending money from the European Union. Some of you will certainly be in contact with applications for aid. At the request of the Member States, the European Commission should simplify this procedure very much. Action is being taken in this area. With regard to the competitiveness of the agri-food economy, in this area the main objective is to increase the level of this competitiveness. The actions that we take and which have not been taken before... This is a question, one can say, of the position of a farmer or processor or an agricultural producer on the market, and there are several laws on this issue that are practically complete. The procedure for public or inter-ministerial arrangements... These laws are, first, the crop and animal insurance law which introduces the possibility to use the entire insurance package or return in such situations as were in 2005. Second, the law on unfair competition. She has a different dimension in different countries, and in Poland this problem has not been raised, but it is about the position of producer groups or producers in relation to hypermarkets, supermarkets. Another law is the Law on the stabilisation of agricultural income. It will allow, inter alia, early payment for those who have been deceived by the purchasers, e.g. grain. As far as the Food Labelling Act is concerned, we want to introduce the principle that the name of the Polish product should be on the packaging. And it's not that it's happening all over the world, it's that it's happening especially in our country. These laws are very much needed. A very important law, which will be passed to Parliament in May, is a retail law; it was widely consulted, we met with representatives of various organisations. This law, in our opinion, will enable the development of retail sales to be accelerated. It can also be said that this is some form of direct sales: we plan that up to EUR 40 000 the taxpayer will be exempt from charges and at EUR 40 This means that this version, which is now in legal circulation, will continue to function, only over the limit of 40 thousand. This form, which is currently, is used to a very small extent. I will also say that I have submitted to 130 agricultural organisations, and in December we received over 1000, about 1200 requests in individual areas. These are legislative, programme or organisational proposals. We successfully have a list, a description of these tasks, they are consulted with the notifiers, and some solutions will be adopted in our legislative or programme work. As far as competitiveness is concerned, important matters are related to plant protection products. This market needs to be organized. The issue of the position of our producers It is an issue that we have in mind; we very much want the participation of Polish companies to be greater when it comes to the market. The issue of biological progress is very important in production and we are analysing it, and some of the solutions in this area will already be presented. We want soil liming to be also possible to finance this, because this is a problem that farmers are facing. The third issue is rural development... So in the latter area, most of the actions are legal actions that need to be implemented and which will strengthen the position of a farmer or an agricultural producer in the food chain, which can lead to the fact that the added value, or profit, will remain in the pocket of our farmers. Rural development. Here, the most important thing is that we've changed. The government changed that, Minister of Development. The principles of development policy in Poland, i.e. we return to the policy pursued in the years 2005-2007, i.e. sustainable development. We depart from this famous polarization and diffusion development, which was used mostly by large cities and metropolises. We want development policy or economic development to also cover areas that are lagging behind and, above all, the majority of the country, i.e. rural areas. It is therefore being developed at the priority stage of the rural pact. That's what I call it. a small pact, because, of course, our pact must be part of the development policy of the entire government, because it is being changed when it comes to programming documents. Because we have Mr Morawiecki's development plan, now the medium-term development strategy of the country will be revised, i.e. the elements that result from the goals that the government is currently setting. Then there are these sectoral strategies, including the new policy strategy for agricultural and rural development, the 2012 strategy and the implementation document for cohesion policy will be the rural pact. As I said, the first part of the priorities will be 15 and 20, and these will be those that will resolve certain problems in rural areas in a decisive way. For example, such as the energy problem, that is, the old energy lines that need to be exchanged. And there's more to it than that. This is the issue of the pig reconstruction programme from various sources we want to finance it. But as I say, at the end of May there will be a preliminary version of this little pact. The large pact will also include rural development programming, which is what we have announced in our programme. After the consolidation of the agency there will also be a programming element, i.e. from the government there will be an organ or institution, which will agree with the local authorities the actions that will be implemented with the money of the state budget. or under cohesion policy, so that indicators that still need to be monitored lead to a level playing field between rural and urban residents. So that there is a fundamental change in rural development policy. The next area is the area of the institution, i.e. the management of the agricultural administration. This is about the program declared by us. It's already being implemented. The question of consolidating inspections in the field of food safety and quality. We have already set up a team that will prepare two laws by the end of June, one competent one and the other introductory one. There will be one food safety inspection, which will include IJHARS, veterinary services, PIORIN, plant protection inspection, and part of the health care system. The one that investigates elements that overlap... Because there are situations. This is due to the law That there is a partial veterinary inspection and a partial sanitary inspection in the same area. I should transfer these competences, combine them and submit them to the State Food Safety Inspection. So let me repeat: the work is going on, there is a team, by the end of June, there will be draft laws that will go to Parliament. We would like this bill to be passed by the end of the year. The next year is already a gentle transition to the practical implementation of the law. 70 regulations need to be issued in this respect, and they need to be carefully analysed. We cannot make the system of official food control worse in Poland. He is not misjudged when it comes to the quality of control itself. However, there are repeated competences, several actors carry out the same tasks. That's why the postulate has been mentioned for 10 years... I hope it will be realized within these two years. Next thing you know, it's farm counseling. We want agricultural advice to be subordinated to the agricultural minister. There is a draft law on agricultural advisory. And this project will now be addressed to the Sejm. If there will be work and there will be no reservations, I think there is a chance that from 1 July the submission of advice will be transferred from the local government under supervision of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The next case is the agency's case. This year we want to move the tasks of the Agricultural Market Agency to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and partly to the Agricultural Property Agency, as announced in the programme. The Agricultural Market Agency will cease to exist at the end of the year. For the time being, we are conducting research on IT systems, because unfortunately they were not and are not consistent with each other. You have to be careful about that. Experts shall examine whether this transfer will result in the loss of part of the allowances. It's checked to make sure. But the plan is for the Agricultural Market Agency to cease to exist by the end of the year. There will be a restructuring agency as a paying agency. It must be adapted to agricultural policy after 2020. Different changes in the common agricultural policy are announced. The positions of the different countries vary. Part of it is against the continued functioning of the common agricultural policy. And this agency, as we know, is handling these payments. So that at this stage the payment tasks that are carried out at the Agricultural Market Agency will be carried out. Then, next year and two years later... Because in 2018 the rules are to be agreed, the shape of the common agricultural policy after 2020 is to be agreed. And then, of course, this institution will have to be adjusted. In turn, the Agricultural Property Agency will be a development agency. We'll move development tasks from the Agricultural Market Agency there. Having already had a law on shaping the agricultural system, which we discussed with you here... We want this agency to exist in the end, and we want it to include agricultural advice in its scope. So there will be land management, planning and programming of rural development and economic development activities. We have also joined the establishment of a company that will consolidate agri-food companies under the jurisdiction of the State Treasury. I mean Elewarr, the National Sugar Company, some stock exchanges, some of the companies subordinate to the Agricultural Property Agency. There will be a single entity That's the plan. The aim is to create one entity which will be competitive on the market, but we also conduct and conduct economic analyses, whether such an entity will be able to operate on the market for the benefit of Poland. These activities are being carried out. I think that on the anniversary of the operation of the Sejm, the Senate and the government, the quality of the tasks will be summarized. They're, like I said, in progress. Finally, it is a matter of managing the State Treasury's assets. We have adopted this law, there are different voices on this issue, but, as I see, most of the population supports this law, especially farmers. Moreover, even yesterday, a United Nations representative dealing with the earth, reports on the earth, expressed a very positive opinion on this law. I continue to maintain my position that it was a necessary law, necessary that we adopted the best solution from the point of view of our country. The next issue, which is partly controversial, is the matter of the management of the State Treasury's assets. We're making partial changes. I do not hide that they result from an assessment of the day-to-day functioning of these units. The most controversy in the public opinion is that they try to create environments that, as of the end of their business, lose the ability to earn often undue income, and that in a sense can be understood. But as far as the agricultural resort is concerned, we are consistent and this good change will be made. I would've had so much... I'll ask Minister Zarudzki to talk a little bit about the payments. Because this is the subject that should be presented to you. We will ask for questions, discussion and, if necessary, we will address all the topics in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u7	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Minister Richard Zarudzki to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u8	Dear Marshal! High Senate! In addition to the information presented by the Minister, I would like to focus on two tasks which are carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, i.e. direct payments and implementation of the Rural Development Programme. Two departments are involved in the organisational and legal implementation of the Ministry. The Department of Direct Payments prepares... the Ministry as a supervising body prepares legal bases, laws, regulations. The Department of Direct Payments shall deal with this part concerning payments and Okay, look out! payments from Pillar II, i.e. agri-environment schemes, organic farming, forestation. With regard to the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, the Department of Rural Development deals with all legal services in the Ministry, the preparation of matters related to the implementation of the law. In turn, the implementing body is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, whose task is to prepare on the basis of the solutions adopted parts of detailed procedures, the books of procedures, the models of proposals and the whole bureaucratic, so to speak, machinery. We are trying to simplify this in one form or another, to find some facilitations to reduce this whole bureaucratic mite. Another very important element in implementing the first and second pillars of the common agricultural policy is agricultural advice. It's a very important matter. The Minister mentioned today our actions for change I'm not gonna use the word "reform," because everyone's already reformed counseling, and nobody's done it. Transformation and improvement for the whole system to function. So it's about public advice in conjunction with the Agricultural Property Agency, plus advice from agricultural chambers and private advice. And it's like a whole package, from a supervisory institution to an implementing institution, it's a whole advisory system. The farm advisory and service system is the element we are currently working on. We're preparing a law on agricultural advice, a change of competence... It is about adapting this to the existing requirements. Back to the basic information I should like to provide, I would like to say in the most brief terms about direct payments. I will do it this way: Dear Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, firmly and kindly inform you that for today, on 29 April, 92% farmers... 85% the financial envelope for direct payments has been transferred to those farmers. [[All of it?]] It's been passed on. I'm gonna say it again. ♪ 92% ♪ ♪ I farmers. The total beneficiaries are 1 million 350... this is 92% of this as if the pool of beneficiaries. And all of it, all of it. Advances are only until the end of November, and if we are talking about payments, they are passed on in full. That means we've got 15% left to hand over. financial envelope 8% farmers. Large farmers, farmers who had on-the-spot checks, farmers who had any problems with the application or any other arrears related to the functioning of the agency... Ladies and gentlemen, if I look at the starting point, which is the first day of my work as Vice Minister when I was entrusted with supervision of the agency... When I took up my duties on 19 November, the first letter I received from the then president of the Restructuring Agency concerned that the direct payment system would not operate from 1 December. Shortly speaking, there was a disaster involving a failure to pay the money. She was threatening a disaster, so to speak, politically speaking... And so there was discontent, and so there were situations in which we had to explain and explain things several times in the Seym in the current cases. But you can say this: what we found ends today, because it's my phrase, 92%. and 85% It means that we have managed to deal with the situation. I can say that now. From 1 December to mid-January, we have actually paid EUR 255 million, and I will remind you that 14.5 billion is due by 30 June in the EU procedure. And I also want to say... Well, I know there's a continuity of power. I understand that the commitments made as if we had to continue. And the farmer isn't interested in what or how, he just wants the money in his account. And these commitments... And his resources deserved all the more because there was drought, there was also ejaculation, and there is a difficult situation of high resources... There are low prices for certain products In particular, it is about milk, pork, and also about the fruit and vegetables market. We know that the situation is still difficult, and it was even more difficult at the time. I will only say this: in my opinion, great bows and very much thanks are definitely due here, firstly, to the staff and colleagues of the Ministry for having taken legal control of the situation, and secondly, to the President of Obajtki and to the entire team of employees, and especially to those ants in the county offices who, without waiting for anything, with their spare time, Saturdays and Sundays, prepared appropriate decisions when the delay was several months, for 6 weeks actually did not function the system, which today results in what I said, 92% beneficiaries, 85% financial envelope... You could say this: negligence, lack of supervision. You might say, in August, a new power came and now he's throwing it on his predecessors... I know there could be charges like this: you couldn't do it at first. I would just like to remind you kindly that in August I've got this handwriting. Mr Sawicki then wrote about negligence, lack of supervision, audit requests, the whole procedure, and that the system would not function unless appropriate action is taken. The diagnosis was, however, earlier, but, as I said, this situation was caused by lack of supervision, electoral campaign, elections related to RDPs. I can say that the decisive action of the Minister of Agriculture, the advance still in November, the consequence of the agency and the action it has taken, all this has led to the situation that we have today. And with full satisfaction I can say here that by June 30th... Because all this tension came from the fact that farmers were promised to withdraw this money earlier. That's the first thing. And this was promised in a situation where it was known that this was the first year of the new, complicated payment system, in total there are eighteen types of payments. For all this initial disaster or dysfunction in terms of the functioning of the agency, there were several factors, among others, which must be honestly acknowledged, some objective... But two, three years ago, it was known... that it was conscious of making decisions and signing contracts. After all, it is known that the draft EU regulations are decreed on a date, but they are known at least a year before, at least as far as the basic formula is concerned. That's our assessment of the situation. And we're working to finish this 2015 campaign, but with complete peace, and we have the satisfaction that we've made it, it's a really basic issue for us, especially when we look at the starting point. What is important is that the 2016 campaign at this stage runs in a normal way, although I am not saying that it has no problems, we have some problems, but the management of the agency together with supervision is taking appropriate actions and decisions in agreement with the management of the Ministry and with the restructuring agency. First of all, the IT system... There are some changes in the organizational structure, but because they are, so to speak, operations on a living organism, so we have to do it very carefully. Yesterday, at the committee meeting, we discussed this very closely, we gave the committee members the information on how these changes went. There is available such material containing a comprehensive, detailed description and I encourage all interested to familiarize themselves with it. Moreover, agreements are signed with the IT company and some solutions are created for local branches when it comes to the IT website. We are looking for good solutions that would give us a good perspective for the years to come. This is very important to us. We're working hard, and I think this job will have the desired effect. When it comes to the new period, the new campaign, 2016, it can be said that as always it is with PIT, the same and with the conclusions of farmers often wait until the last moment, but on the other hand I understand that they had to sow fields because they were squealing, there were some problems associated with it. Therefore, we have until 15 May to submit our applications. That's why you can only appeal, ask and encourage these... We're, I think it's kind of comparable. Ready for this campaign as if... I also ask the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the senators to encourage the meetings... to encourage farmers to pass on their applications. I don't rule out... Although it will be decided, I think, by the end of the week or the beginning of next week. But for the time being, once again, the acceptance of applications is until May 15th, actually until May 16th, because it is Sunday on May 15th. Maybe we'll extend it by 1 month, possibly, possibly, but I'd like it to be in these categories, and that deadline... And here, for technical reasons, Commissioner Hogan will take this decision. We made an appropriate request in March, and the Minister spoke on this issue in April at the meeting of the Agriculture Ministers in Brussels. As far as payments are concerned, maybe I'll just add that as for the discrepancy in the material presented yesterday at the Senate committee meeting... I would like to add that 1.5 billion zł was sent to farmers in the Mazowieckie voivodship, and this is the largest amount, to farmers in the Lublin Voivodeship - 1 billion 100, in the Wielkopolskie Voivodeship - 1 billion 100, in the Podlaskie Voivodeship - 900 million, and to farmers in the smaller... in the Silesian Voivodeship - 238 million, in the Lubuskie Voivodeship - 250 million, in the Opolskie Voivodeship - 280 million... So 230 million and 250 million for this purpose for the voivodship up to PLN 1.5 billion for the voivodship. And this is a certain injection for farmers, which is intended to compensate, which must be said, for low prices, for high production costs, for compensation for It's a reminder. Good practice, good culture. I would also like to emphasise one thing very strongly. It's often said. What's unnecessary and unjustified? That farmers get it for nothing. Payments are compensation for food being at a moderate price and low prices for products in part I would like to stress: in part They were still inadequately compensated for by farmers in this formula. That's the policy. We will be in the framework of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework and in the framework of work in this area. We are already starting them, the teams are being formed, Minister Jurgiel has set up teams for the common agricultural policy, to think about how this should be in the new period. Of course, the fundamental, fundamental and main priority is to align direct payments to the level of competitiveness opportunities in the single market. This is our primary priority. A negotiating strategy will also be built around this, including a review, identifying needs and demonstrating that we will not be competitive, we cannot compete if these subsidies are not... The question is, to what extent, how to count... But it's like... But this is our main priority when it comes to the programme and when it comes to direct payments. This is the first case, which is the matter of direct payments. The second point, the issue of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, namely, the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. And here you can say the first basic basic information. I'd like to... This is an important cross-cutting, because this is the reference point... On the last page of the development program, on page 311... I'm saying on the last page in this sense... On this page is the financial table of this programme, the financial table of the rural development programme. And this is where the first basic information is indicated: 8.5. EUR 1 billion from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. So we have 8.5 billion to implement the programme plus the national budget of over 5 billion, so we have EUR 13.5 billion in total until 2023. So let's say that this is the part that we have to distribute to each of the 12 types of operations, 30 sub-ops, and 42 sub-ops. Let me say this: 12 actions, 30 sub-measures, 42 types of operations. This number 42 is important because these are the smallest units of modernization type, the young farmer, etc. These are the 42 items we're spending our money on. In a moment, I will group them together and give them a characteristic feature in terms of rural development, and I will tell them what our approach is in this respect. So this €13.5 billion by 2023 will be spent on 42 actions, so-called operations. What are these actions? Before that, I'd like to say yes. Our situation is this: EUR 13.5 billion for the 2014-2020 period means that... It was almost the same in the 2007-2013 period, but from the European Union itself, and there were 5 billion from the national budget. And that was exactly EUR 17.2 billion in 2007 and 2013. During this period we have 13.5 billion. We had 5.2... So we have more than PLN 20 billion less for actions under the Rural Development Programme. And that's the reality we started, that's the reality we found. Following the negotiations of the Rural Development Programme, which resulted in the adoption of the programme in December 2014, with the signature of the... I remember what the program records were when this program went into negotiations, and I know what it was like at the end, because I was very interested in it at the time. I'll tell you, I could prove it by giving details of some of the solutions. Fortunately, the European Commission has undertaken some interventions here, ordering some issues relating to the Rural Development Programme. If necessary, in detail. I'll explain. The final result is that we have EUR 5 billion less, while actions and tasks are more. And one more thing that came up in this procedure, a commitment that is still valid... The consequence is that this missing money will be taken from cohesion policy and transferred to entrepreneurship, to infrastructure, for certain hard investment measures for the development of agriculture and peripheral areas. In this pact, we want to show it. Outermost areas... Minister Kwieciński, Minister Jurgel... Very intensive work is underway. We are at the stage of changes in the partnership agreement, as well as.... But it's hard. I'm not gonna hide it and say it's so light and you can do a lot of things right away... we'll see, we have some ideas. We are in the process of searching for opportunities to be more effective and concretely monitored from cohesion policy, leaving, as Minister Jurgel stressed, from the polarisation and diffusion system to the fear of pronouncing it. For sustainable development and outermost areas, transfer these funds. We're making a map of the outermost areas, we're talking to Minister Kwiecinski. On 5 May, there is another meeting on changes to the Partnership Agreement. We're looking for good solutions, but it's hard. Cohesion policy, which I would like to emphasise, is very much connected... So far, what I am saying with all my determination, because I have experienced this many times myself in my home voivodship, was not even considered that... Simply separate were the RPO programmes, the activities of the RDPs went separately. It was on the principle that you have your agricultural programs and get away from ours. Today we are trying to change this by introducing this new policy at this level. And this is how it is understood by the strict management and by me as the vice-minister in charge of these matters. As far as the Rural Development Programme is concerned, I would like to say that at the beginning, we have already done a very important thing that is generally available in the first 1,5 In this yesterday's material, we also passed it on. It is a timetable for the types of operations for the whole year. Local governments, because we know that under the Rural Development Programme there are a whole pool of delegated tasks, about them in a moment... So we're not just judging for farmers, because that's what we need to publicise, because the development programme doesn't just go to farmers, and there's also a very serious part, 15%. amounts from the entire development programme, you can say, for self-government actions, for activities that are not typically agricultural. I think that here, on the other hand, there should also be an effort within the framework of cohesion policy. And now if you group these 42 actions in the most general way, that's the first pool, about 37%, close to 40%. funds from a total of 13.5 billion have been allocated to farm development. I understand that this is a continuation, and I agree, and I wouldn't want... it's a continuation, it's also a situation that we've taken over and we're trying to change. What I'm trying to say is that the predecessors, of course, made some assumptions, it's not that something was created in four months. Only now do we want to give this a new quality, to combine it with cohesion policy, but also what I am talking about here are possible changes to the programme, to make some adjustments that would give these solutions a different quality. I'd like to emphasise that, too. But I will also say here that the predecessors had to move in a legal framework that imposed EU regulations. By adapting this to our conditions, we try to modify it in a system way a little bit. The first part, concerning the development of the farms, is the currently announced competition of the young farmer. Today is the last day to accept entries for the contest. The next issue is the modernisation of agricultural holdings, and here's a pool of 40%. measures. Let me remind you that tomorrow is the end of the time for the selection of applications in 4 modernisation areas: for piglets producers, for milk producers, for beef producers and It's the most expected one. For the purchase of machinery, this also applies to other farms. There's a very large pool of resources here. Three are national, so there's no risk of running out of money. When it comes to modernization, it's on, it's in the process, tomorrow's the last day for applications. The creation of producer groups and organisations, investments that recreate agricultural production potential, investments in Natura 2000 areas are these basic issues related to farm development. This includes investments to prevent damage to the potential of agricultural production. The situation here is that the lack of water law is blocking us from implementing certain actions, and we are blocked by many actions not only related to the Rural Development Programme, but also to the possibilities for all water management issues, and we know how important this is. The announcements, which are that in May will go to the Sejm the drafts of the law. Water law, are good, because it is very desirable. This is the first group of types of operations: farm development. The second group is entrepreneurship. In general, there's a disaster. Maybe I'll just say it like that. In the new Rural Development Programme, on entrepreneurship. She was taken from here and told that it would be, that was the announcement. We are trying to change that, which is why this is my earlier clarification on cohesion policy that these funds for entrepreneurs will be from regional operational programmes. These measures are minimal, a lot is only for processing and marketing. There is an attempt to start this direct processing on farms. But As I say, disaster is that it's... the fact that we call it entrepreneurial is one thing, but if you look inside, it's the beneficiary, the imposed restrictions... We have so much resources so far, but we will gradually try to modify it as far as possible to avoid blowing up the entire Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u9	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt, but I have to stop you because at 12:00, the exhibition will be opened. So that we invite you very cordially to this exhibition. We'll ask the Minister to resume his post-break appearance. And now I'm announcing a recess until 12:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u10	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We would like to return to the first item on the agenda: the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development's information on the implementation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development's Action Programme for the years 2015-2019. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Ryszard Zarudzki and complete his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! High Senate! I think after this power outage, everyone will systematically come when they see... I'll tell you as a summary of the first part. 'Cause the speaker should always say what he's gonna talk about and tell him what he's talking about. What I was talking about before the break. Namely, the EU funds that have been allocated to us under the common agricultural policy, as if they refer to the so-called. The first and second pillars of the common agricultural policy. The first pillar of the common agricultural policy is direct payments and the second pillar of the agricultural policy is rural development. In the first part of my speech, before the break, I briefly presented the most important elements relating to the implementation of direct payments for farmers, for agricultural enterprises and I said partly about Pillar II, i.e. rural development, the part concerning the grouping of 42 types of operations for which EUR 13.5 billion is spent by 2023. What I want to say in this part, is that I continue to inform you about the Rural Development Programme, here you can separate groups of types of operations that we are carrying out. I would also like to emphasise once again that this is really important. That we have adopted a timetable for implementation. The first part includes issues such as farm development, bonus for young farmers and modernisation of agricultural holdings. And, as I said, modernization is extended in such a way that it includes dairy producers, piglets, beef and, as I would like to stress, organic poultry rather than traditional ones. It will be the same for other breedings, plus machines... And this is where competitions will be announced every year. The financial means are sufficient to cover about 30%. There is EUR 2.5 billion for this, which is quite a bit, and there is a full security for it. What's that supposed to do? It's not just the distribution of money. The main objective for this part is to build the competitiveness of Polish agriculture in the single market. Two things are important here. Firstly, the equalisation of payments that will enable this competitiveness to be achieved and secondly, the creation of competitiveness itself, i.e. the promotion and modernisation of agricultural holdings. In this way, I moved on to the second point, i.e. the issue of strengthening, strengthening entrepreneurship. There are two key types of operations, namely the processing and marketing of agricultural products. The first call was announced on 1 December and continued until the end of December. There was quite a lot of... And now we're proceding. The second call will be announced in October - November. - Uh-huh. And as an opportunity... In November we will deal with the processing and marketing of agricultural products. This is, as it were, a second call, an action, which attention here It covers the processing of meat, milk, fruit and vegetables and cereals. I stress: milk, meat, fruit and vegetables. This will take place in November 2016, so it is time to prepare. As part of the improvements we have expanded, this is important information... So far, there's been one amendment. We're changing it, and we're already in all the next rounds... In the beginning, knowing these issues, dealing with this issue I was also in favour of the 1st amendment, but I changed my mind, you can't be orthodox here. I agree with the fact that we need to step back... We wanted to make sure that it didn't last for weeks, and we set ourselves an ambitious goal: there will be a second amendment, but the time for examining the proposal will not change, so there will be concentration within the framework of... A few months to consolidate the letter, then the ranking list, the criteria, and then to consider this... In the case of modernisation, this is the case: 3 months for drawing up the letter and then 8 months for consideration. And note: in this case, one amendment is in force in the case of modernisation, but the next one will already have two amendments. The same will be true for entrepreneurship, processing, marketing of agricultural products There will be 2 amendments. We're gonna make that regulation... It is ordering so that I ask permission, please consent, ask for legal provisions, for business plans You have to work on it a little bit, not wait for the last moment. The quality of the proposal will be crucial for us. The financial means at this stage are... but you have to meet the criteria that we change in part, because we see something not working. Today I'm not going to tell you how much we want to improve... The point is not to narrow down these criteria, just to simplify or make it easier for beneficiaries... These are specifics. As far as entrepreneurship, marketing and processing are concerned, this is actually true for large companies. We want to increase the minimum amount to... In July we announce the next action, which is such a sub-action: marketing processing up to 300 thousand for farmers obliged to... But note: this should not be confused with sales. It's not about those who want to sell directly. I will say this: this action is for those who already, so to speak, have practiced direct sales, have already acquired experience, already have some, already know what it is about in this market, feel... Processing and marketing... Or those who just want to create this kind of activity. Processing... Up to PLN 300,000. Because the big one is PLN 3 million, PLN 10 million, etc. And here is up to PLN 300,000 of support for processing for small farmers. For the little ones. 300,000 PLN, 50% So the investment has to be 600 or 800,000. Yeah, it's so small. For that amount. So take it easy, let's be here... We know the reality. Anyway, when it comes to processing and marketing... Because this sub-action in processing and marketing is in this trend, which was presented by Minister Jurgiel. Namely retail... We leave the said 2% And 150 thousand zlotys, we leave the law on direct sales. Let her live her own life, we don't bother her. So far there are no volunteers, there are probably 20 willing on a national scale, who benefit from such exemptions and from the aforementioned direct sales procedure. But we're starting retail sales. We want... If this were a consult right now... Since January 1, 2017, and it is so connected. Direct sales will in a moment talk about the leader and strategies of creating small local markets, marketplaces, plus processing and marketing in a small edition. That's later wisdom. First, let's find out what the individual actions are and then learn... With Leader let's do it, the local government will do it, the little processor will do something else. And that's the approach we're talking about, the efficiency approach. And we're talking about our rural pact here. The pact is not a magic wand, it is a saying: we invite you to cooperate. We're dating about some solutions. And it's not like we're gonna ladies and we're gonna make a commitment, we're gonna make a commitment together. That's the idea of a pact. Slowly... It's hard, it's not so... Because it's always: please give it to us and we'll do it. This is a combination of different funds, that's consolidation and looking for effective solutions. And a miracle doesn't happen right away. But... we can't do things right away, you have to wait for miracles. And as far as this procedure is concerned, we're working too. I'm pretty sure if we work, we'll be able to do it in terms of... Because it takes two years to start a trial. You have to work hard for a year, and after 3 years there are first results. And it won't be. Otherwise, it'd be like a bubble of soap, something pops up and disappears. There's quite a lot of money here when it comes to processing. That's why I said Maybe it sounded pretty dramatic. It's a difficult situation. Maybe I can ease it and say that there is a difficult situation when it comes to entrepreneurship. Above all, there are few resources and they are very limited. Service companies operating... We are talking about the second part mentioned, for entrepreneurs in the RDP. There's not enough resources because... if someone's been operating for two years... About some permanent solutions... Of course, in a moment, bonuses to start off non-agricultural activities, bonuses to develop non-agricultural activities... And that's what it looks like here. However, I personally believe that, as far as the development of entrepreneurship is concerned, all of this is far from sufficient, well-cut, also because of the criteria. And what's most important, even if you look... is far less resources. Even if we were to say, well, let's go to the simplest solution when it comes to entrepreneurship, i.e. the development of agricultural services, bonuses to start off non-agricultural activities and certain amounts; I would say: little money. It's going to be a critical mass that means something, it's going to process... It's served... And we're looking, maybe there'll be shifts. We'll be looking for solutions. I know one thing: entrepreneurship is not the way it should be. What, if not entrepreneurship, is to trigger rural development and creating conditions? Let me repeat once again: in the assumptions, also the previous ones, this was supposed to be cohesion policy. Except I don't see it. We really don't see it. How did we find... We're talking about how we're gonna go into politics right now. So how do we convince the Marshals' offices, the Marshals of the Voivodships to reroute funds to peripheral areas, not cities, and diffusion-polarization areas... And your commitments... Really, then it's... a few, like I said... E.g. selection criteria, e.g. criteria in monitoring committees, e.g. There's some agreements about... And they are in several voivodships solutions within the RLKS, i.e. so-called. community-led local development, we're working on it... That's the second thing, that's entrepreneurship. Third area: territorial development. Let me put it this way: territorial development is a 15% pool of money the entire budget. The development programme is not limited only to agricultural matters, but also to local governments, local governments and local authorities. Combining land once... This is one of the first actions that we launched, because it was already in progress, in progress. There's stakes, I know, but there's already been a expectation from... They're county elders. The second point is the action on community-led local development. This is a whole pool of very important actions under the Rural Pact, we place a great deal of emphasis on human capital, on rural development in terms of development, activation and animation of local communities, in terms of bottom-up approaches, so-called. Leader approach, creation of three-sectoral partnerships. I took care of this for a number of years, accepted the proposal and invited the Minister and came as if directly from production, among others. production related to the development of local strategies for a new period. The local community shall get along in a partnership involving self-government, entrepreneurs and the local community, in one form or another, natural persons or NGOs, within a local action group. They're making it up. Acting within the framework of what is laid down in the Regulation As they want to grow, they get 10, 15, 20, 30 million zlotys for it and implement it. What can be complained about in 2007 and 2013... There was a Leader approach... and there are senators here who take care of Leader and are even presidents of local action groups. I think it's to be confirmed... As for the years 2007 and 2013, anything to say about negative issues related to the different situations relating to the implementation of the Leader approach, the key to success, I will repeat this, dependent not on power but on the local community, is that certain grassroots social ties have been built. You don't have to tell me about any negative cases, as few people know them. I know about imposing on certain groups of your will, project selection committees, I know that very well, but I note that this is the creation of a local community, which is given some power on the basis of: you will get funds, but come up with and manage these funds. I regret very, very much that only 2 voivodships have gone into full versions of the community-led local development, i.e. not only have they benefited from the funds that are under Leader in the... It was an opportunity to benefit for the first time in the history of the entire Union... It would be a historical matter. But it showed, as if, our reality in a bad light. This is my firm... Convince me I'm wrong. Namely 14 out of 16 Marshals said that they would not transfer funds to local development in the procedure we supervise you, but we pass on, come up with what you want, and get along at the bottom of the European Social Fund within the framework of the RPO, with the European Regional Development Fund. Two voivodships decided to do it. Kujawsko-Pomorskie from the RPO transferred EUR 90 million by 2020, i.e. the simplest estimate of PLN 360 million, for their local action groups, to their strategies, which also take funds from the Rural Development Programme, to achieve the objectives and tasks contained in the regional operational programme. And there's Podlaskie - 60 million euros. The remaining 14 voivodships could have done this. My basic question... I understand bureaucratic problems, but in our opinion, such a bottom-up one, it was a little bit of a desire for the marshals to own it, on the principle that we are going to share it, and we are not going to give people money to distribute it. And I am not convinced by the arguments that bureaucratic procedures are an obstacle to the implementation of this programme. What is new is always difficult, but why we blocked the possibility of rural development through... And then there was talk of the missing resources in the development programme. These funds could be allocated to entrepreneurship, to infrastructure, to activities that are definitely needed in the countryside, to rural life, to social affairs, but this was not done. Hence today we have support for a development strategy in which we select local groups. In 2 voivodships the situation is very good. We have additional resources, and we will support and monitor this, and it also involves the fact that these local groups are supported in 20 cases at 300, because they will be 300... We will also want to give these designated local groups a certain rank and give them new tasks, because this allows them to cover the entire country, and especially to reach areas with social exclusion, to people at risk of social exclusion. It is about rural development in the purest form there, at the bottom, where this is happening, i.e. in villages, rural communities, outermost communities. As far as delegated tasks are concerned, we're deciding right now... There'll be first competitions in the fall. As far as delegated tasks are concerned, that's all I'm going to say: part of the money is transferred to the marshals. RLKS, or Leader, is a trade fair in July 2016. Previously, in June 2016 Employment of the first proposals In September, October. Competitions on sewage and sewage management August. Construction and modernization of local roads... It's already announced, local governments are deciding, we've already decided everything... This was prepared by the previous ministry, the previous government launched this action before the elections. Then protection of monuments, i.e. the so-called. village renewal We will launch this in April 2017, for accreditation reasons and not to burden marshals at once with such a large number of actions. I already know that you can expect charges: that so much money, that not enough money, that it's a few pennies... 15% The entire budget isn't enough? That's one thing. Second, tell me when... But you have to admit, since there are local roads, you have to... The problem is not whether there is little or much, the problem is how we spend it, how effectively and what we can do about it. Yes? It's just that, so to speak, such bottom-up wisdom... So action is being taken, and I also think that's what I hope. It's a good thing for local governments. And it's the good that's coming back to us. through cooperation within the framework of cohesion policy. The third area is territorial development. The fourth area is the transfer of knowledge and innovation. Tomorrow, at the headquarters of the European Commission's representative office in Warsaw, we have a debate in which the Ministry of Agriculture, after agreement with Minister Jurgiel and close management, will present the initial assumptions of our approach to innovation in agriculture, knowledge transfer and information activities and building this whole... In this area, there are also activities supported just within the framework of knowledge transfer and information activities, providing comprehensive advice to farmers, support for the training of advisors and so-called. EPI groups, innovation groups. The EPI groups cooperation involving a new, innovative approach is one of the priorities. If I were to point out my priorities in terms of my activity, the work I'm doing right now, one of my priorities is to show... In EPI groups, emphasis is placed on new technologies, new products, new operating systems, new start-up systems... New doesn't mean it's completely unknown. These new food systems address issues such as food transfer, food transfer, food promotion, the market, healthy food, promotion and search. And it's all about... There are EPI groups, there's Leader and there's small markets, there's elements like local groups, there's entrepreneurship development in the sense of processing, there's small marketing, there's direct sales, there's the whole art of combining all of this now. And the fundamental difficulty is such an integrated, systemic approach, that this should be included together. That's the problem. So what if we do one thing if we don't involve the whole thing? For this process to start to transfer knowledge and innovation, it takes time. That's the idea. Tomorrow at the board meeting, we'll talk about it. And last area: product and production quality support, i.e. support for promotion activities of the producer group in the internal market, as well as support for preparation for quality systems, i.e. on certificates for those who want to enter different certified food quality systems. These systems are dozens, I think it is an interesting and grateful topic, and it is related to food safety, our work for the agri-food industry, shortening the mediation and the whole machinery of producing healthy food. It's a little difficult, but these elements are... So much for the second element of the Rural Development Programme. I have tried to give you this most important information, but I understand that you may have questions or any doubts about what I was talking about, so I am at your disposal. And thank you very much for your time and patient listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u12	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you senators like to ask the Minister's questions? I've got a full list of candidates, Senator Rulewski came in first, but I don't see him in the O.R. right now. Next on the list is Senator Klich. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u13	Minister, you have presented us with a very detailed policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, very skillfully skipping all issues that are difficult, which shock public opinion and which are a problem for the Ministry of Agriculture. Congratulations! And I would like to ask about one of them, but not about the most publicized one that seems to be alive, the whole of Poland, so not about the fall of our studs in Michałów, in Janów Podlaski, but about the case that beats in the pocket of farmers, i.e. delays in direct payments. Let us be honest, of course, you will fit in in time, because direct payments can be made from 1 December to 30 June, so that from a formal point of view it is difficult to have reservations about the current management of the Ministry, but delays in relation to previous years are visible to the naked eye. I will remind you that in 2014 payments were made in more than 90% by March 19th... [[Because of your minister...]] We didn't, Mr. Senator, the Minister of Agriculture, at least I don't remember the Civic Platform having any minister of agriculture. Make me aware, if that's what happened. And besides, your group is in charge... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] Your group's been in charge for six months now, so it's hard to say that they've been throwing their own guilt at their predecessors. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And don't interrupt me because I'm not used to it. By 19 March 2014, more than 90% were paid out. direct payments in 2014. This time, as you recall, 92% farmers received payments recently, and even two months ago it was only 58% farmers who have received full direct payments. Once again: you are formally within the deadline, but the delay in payments compared to previous years for many farmers means tangible losses, because these farmers were forced to collect credits due to delays. And I would like to ask: how does the Ministry of Agriculture intend to... [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Chairman...]] ...compensate those farmers who were forced to borrow and pay interest on them, the losses you suffered as a result of your tardiness? Thank you. [[It's been eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u14	Thank you. Minister, will you answer from your seat or... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer Senator Klich's questions and at the same time to express my surprise that the Senator, who always presents that the Platform of the Law Party... [[And justice?]] ...and defending democracy... And that he's making accusations about where the law enforcement authorities found irregularities. I have to tell you, as far as this famous stud is concerned, it's an environment that lived lightly from this stud... [[That's not what I asked.]] ...had to be removed. I received, after some time, the results of the internal control carried out there in 2012, from the authorities of the Agricultural Property Agency, in 2013 was the control of NIK, and in 2015 before the elections, the control of the Central Anti-corruption Office, which pointed to a number of irregularities. And a public servant, the minister, after receiving such information, had to give his consent... Because I didn't cancel, as part of the press says... This stud is a company to which the President of the Agricultural Property Agency is supervising the owner's supervision. And it was the president who canceled, informing me about it. I accepted this action because it could not continue to be tolerated. Now, Mr. Senator, the question is: what compensation? If we're doing something legally, it can't be compensation. If EU law says we pay subsidies by 30 June, what compensation could there be? What right do you derive this from? I will tell you this: the fact that the Polish People's Party did not prepare the system in due time is based on documents. We have ordered, sir, control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, this procedure is ongoing, so let's wait patiently, the Supreme Audit Chamber will assess who caused these payments to be paid maybe a little later than in previous years. But, as Minister Zarudzki said, on 18 November he received a letter to his desk from the former head of Gross stating that the agency was unable to make payments from 1 December, because the system did not work. Why isn't it working? In 2013, when the European Commission adopted the legislative package, then the management decided to update the old system, and after 2 years, and thus in April 2015, the company declared that this system could not be updated, it also started building a new system for another 36 million. And that was supposed to be done for $10 million. And, sir, it wasn't done. So that the senator's seriousness should indicate that if you raise any objections, you have to resist the facts, Senator. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u16	Thank you. Now you're gonna ask Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u17	Minister, one of the many promises that Law and Justice made in the election campaign was equalizing direct payments. At many election meetings organized in rural areas you said that this is very important for Polish agriculture and for Polish farmers. So I would like to ask you the question: what are the measures taken by the Ministry, the government, to ensure that these direct payments are equal to the payments that exist in the European countries? And what do you assume when you're successful in this case? What's the time horizon, the time you'd like to make up for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u18	Unfortunately, for 8 years in the negotiations of the common agricultural policy, the legislative package adopted in December, 17 December 2013, after five years of negotiations, concessions and common circulation, has led to the fact that the legal solutions adopted are very difficult to change. Nevertheless, if you are asking about the procedure, I will say this: this year is the review of the common financial framework which is being conducted by the European Council, i.e. the prime ministers of governments, and this review is to be carried out by the end of the year. There are demands to increase funding for the common agricultural policy, and this is supported by the Committee on Agriculture of the European Parliament. As part of our position to review the common agricultural policy, we are calling for subsidies to be levelled, stating that there must be a level playing field, especially now that we have a crisis on the agricultural markets. By the end of May, we are preparing a position on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2020 and one of the priority demands is also to align the conditions of competition. When will the decisions be made? I can't tell you right now. In any case, I will recommend to the Polish government that in the case of establishing a new package related to subsidies, Poland should not accept solutions other than those which compensate for subsidies for Polish farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u19	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you mentioned that this was the first government that placed the economy... in rural and family farms as part of the pillars of development. I read the speech. .. already detailed. Mr Morawiecki and everything you said and what Prime Minister Morawiecki said is there. So there's gonna be flexible deals, there's gonna be vital... There will be multi-functional family farms, nothing new. My question concerns today, or yesterday, when only two words came to this address. What about the water? There's no water in the rivers, there's no water in the fields, there's no water in the wells. No agriculture, no farming without water. Water companies have broken up or are doing the wrong thing. What will you answer to this charge addressed to heaven and to the people and perhaps even to the previous government? What's the solution for today, tomorrow? Second thing. What about agricultural education? Today a peasant, a farmer is already an entrepreneur, he must know a lot, he must work a lot. In your resort, only 1 person is involved in agricultural education. Is anything gonna change? And the third case. You're writing Mr. Morawiecki's plan. That's the word, isn't it? That: off with GMOs, with modified food. The Americans have almost signed an agreement with Europe on GMOs. What do you say? Did you protest this? Do you know the secrets of this deal with the Americans? They will abandon Europe of GMOs and Poland in particular.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u21	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, thank you for these questions. The fact that there's no water in the rivers... Well, then we're gonna have to let her go, because the PSL platform just led to the fact that there's no water... In any case, water management at that time was put on its head. We have established the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, whose task is to bridge all the rivers, all of them, especially those of the main rivers in Poland, to lead to the path, to the melioration of... There was nothing going on in the PO-PSL regime. Believe me, this will be improved in the coming years. Even water law, which was developed by the previous coalition for 5 years or 6 years, has not been adopted, although the Water Directive points to a number of solutions. Our law will soon go to the Sejm and there these solutions, among others. those concerning water companies will be introduced. Sir, you need to understand the difference in development policy between the Platform and the PiS. Example: in 2008, after the Platform's administration, the first actions were directed against rural areas, against Poland, including eastern but also western ones. All the investments that could stimulate rural development, I'm talking about the S19 road, the railroad, the Rail Baltica project, the airport The platform has ceased in rural areas. And that is the difference that we now want to accelerate this process as part of the rural pact. And as you get to know exactly what the difference is, then you, I hope, will not ask such questions. Agricultural education. In 2006, I will remind you that in 1998 one of the main activists of the Civic Platform at that time, Mr. Rokita, transferred agricultural schools to the supervision of the elders. We decided to save it. In 2005, in my capacity as Minister, I prepared a plan to take over 78 schools under the supervision of the Minister. Then 40 schools were moved, which functioned well, but the platform blocked the process when it came to power. We're restoring... [[That's not true.]] [[Isn't it true or isn't it?]] The truth or the truth... Those are the facts. [[That's an opinion.]] Sir, we're planning on taking over 10 schools this year and we're going to continue this process. The difficulty is that here must be the approval of the county council, because this is the property of the counties... We want to raise this education to a higher level. In addition, you have eliminated the Department of Science, Education and Agricultural Advisory at the Ministry of Agriculture. From July 1st he will be restored to the statue. Agricultural education is a very important issue for us, because we believe that only educated rural people can take development measures, which will be proposed, among others. Moravian plan. I would like to tell you that the Moravian plan in the rural area section allows the use of cohesion policy resources for rural areas. The agricultural resort has a common agricultural policy today, and the budget in this area... As far as the United States Agreement is concerned The European Union is at this stage detrimental to Poland, for the whole of the European Union. The Council of Ministers of the European Union for Agriculture has taken a position and has issued a letter protesting the adoption of the agreement in this form. It must be remembered that it was negotiated by the government of the Platform and the Polish People's Party by the end of last year, almost until November, which made many concessions difficult to reverse now. I have access to this contract, I have access to classified documents. This agreement is not yet publicly available in all details, but we know and protest about liberalisation of access to the agricultural market for certain American products. As far as GMOs are concerned, our position, sir, is clear, we are against the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment. It's always been that way, and I hope it always will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Grabowski. [[Absent.]] He's not in the O.R. It's Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u24	Minister, I would like to ask you about the envisaged lines of action to address the issue of organic payments. As it turns out, some farmers have not submitted an application for an organic payment within the deadline because of the requirement to produce a certain quantity of organic product. They were convinced that they did not comply with the requirement imposed by the regulation. Following the amendment of the rules which took place in the same calendar year, they no longer had the possibility to apply for environmental payments. Question: What will be the position of the Ministry of Agriculture with regard to farmers who are affected by the revision of the rules on the granting of organic payments in 2014? Second question: what is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture with regard to the tax introduced in China on 8 April 2016 of 11.9% on products supplied to China on the Internet and resulting from the new restrictions on the admission of Polish food to the Chinese market? And the third question. I am trying to get information about earlier than the Russian embargo on Polish food in various places. Maybe it's just meat. It was imposed by Ukraine. Has this Ukrainian embargo been lifted or not yet? If I may, I would very much ask for a written reply, because it is such a fascinating matter that on the one hand, on our part, Polish, very friendly actions are being taken towards the Ukrainian side, and on the other hand there are such signals that freeze us a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u25	As far as Ukraine is concerned, we will be happy to reply in writing. We have conducted correspondence with the Minister of Economy in this area, on the association of Ukraine with Europe, the allocation of its limits. I can say here that Ukraine does not necessarily want to cooperate in this regard. As you requested, I will reply in writing because we have extensive correspondence in this regard and many arguments have been raised by us. As far as access to the Chinese market is concerned, we are working intensively in this area. There will be a delegation of our veterinary representatives and plant protection inspections. On 2 or 3 May, we will discuss the specific conditions, the arrangements for certificates of access to the Chinese market, and our promotion in Shanghai. In my view, the Chinese market is a great opportunity for us, after the President's visit to China last November, it is a positive climate. There have been very friendly negotiations that were conducted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in many areas, and of course I have kept in touch with China's representatives in the area of agriculture. The President of China arrives in Poland at the end of June. I think there is a climate, and I believe that the Chinese market will be open to Poland, the more that there is a demand for high quality food, especially organic food, and Poland has achievements in this area. Besides, many companies already focus on large-scale production, let's call it that when it comes to regional products. There's a good chance here. As regards the specific question concerning organic payments, I will ask Minister Zarudzki, who is working directly on regulations to clarify this. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u26	Mr. Senator, I'd like to say yes... If I understand correctly, this applies to organic payments to farmers in 2014. [[Yes.]] I would like to inform you that 2014 is still the previous programming period, i.e. 2007 Let me put it this way: we're going to answer in writing, because it's just a little bit different... this continuation is. We're working on a new... There's a lot of problems here. We are currently working on a revision of the environmental regulation. We will answer in writing and we will address matters from two years ago, which we were not directly involved in. I understand the problem. The problem, in general, when it comes to irritating these environmental activities is quite difficult, there are internal inconsistencies and, as I understand it, also applies to the previous period. So much for me. We'll look into it very carefully, and we'll answer you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Jackowski. I don't see your senator. Then you're Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions to begin with. First of all, about the program where you're right... The question is: from what sources will this be financed? I mean the construction of local roads and district roads as an important element for the development of local environments. We know that this has been a serious problem for years, but I ask you from what sources of funding you intend to strengthen the construction of these roads. That's the first question. The second question is already very specifically related to agricultural policy. In the previous period, the PiS was very critical of the agricultural market, especially as regards the pig market, and there were repeated allegations of meat imports, especially genetic material from the old European Union. I have a question about how you intend to sort this out in the near future, because the influx of this material is still ongoing and very seriously threatening the Polish production of biological material, specifically piglets. There is also a topic that is probably known: production in the fattening industry is developing, which all the more eliminates the Polish production of genetic material. The influx of this material from Denmark, Germany, from the Netherlands is huge and can ultimately cause serious problems with the Polish production of genetic material. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u29	Thank you very much. As far as the construction of local and district roads is concerned, unfortunately for these cohesion policy programmes, the previous coalition has not negotiated the possibility of implementing these roads from cohesion policy resources. We are taking action in the framework of the review of cohesion policy so that, in line with the proposal of organisations operating in local governments, above all the Union of Rural Communities, it is possible beyond this programme, which is the government's road construction programme, the financing of district roads from cohesion policy funds. As far as the pig market is concerned, it has indeed been completely destroyed in Poland, starting in 2008, when the review of the agricultural policy of 2007 and 2014 allowed for the liquidation of one of the instruments, the intervention buying-in of pigs. The next issue is the sale of the Polish processing industry; let's look at the Falcons or the establishments purchased by Animex in Ełk. This simply puts our pig producers at a disadvantage when it comes to competition. And that's what we call it. You're gonna have to feed the pigs. Here, too, we want to make specific requirements that have not been made. However, a programme for the reconstruction of pigs is being developed. The final version has not yet been adopted, it is consulted with producers who produce a lot of cattle, but we also take into account smaller producers. We simply have to oppose the plan that Denmark has towards Poland. Today it brings 5 million pieces to Poland, and their plan is to make it 12 million pieces in the case of pigs within 5 years. That's why we want to fund the program with other resources. As it is known, production can not be subsidised under Union law, e.g. construction of biogas plants that consume these by-products. And the second thing: we want to bet in part on rebuilding the head of the dungeon and the production of piglets. This is just a challenge for us and then the competition can be won by us. This is not easy, but it will certainly take action within a few months, which I believe will lead together with the pig production community to raise the glove as far as competition is concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have this information in front of me, this agenda we're discussing today. I will only quote the introduction, the first sentence of this introduction: the balance of the PO-PSL governments with regard to agriculture and the Polish village can be brought into several lapidary terms [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yet, yet, well.]] [[It's all true.]] I won't read any more, but that's how this information begins. Minister, we just took part in the opening of the exhibition: organic products, healthy food. I would like to ask the Minister what is the difference between exports and imports. What is our balance, is it positive or negative when it comes to sending our products, goods abroad? What did it look like last year and in recent years? Is this really a positive balance or... Because from all of this, it's so bad that you could expect a negative balance. That's the first question. And, Minister, the second question about the consolidation of the inspection you mentioned. Food safety inspections have already been widely discussed in the previous government. I myself have been involved in preparing for the merger of all these inspections. And unfortunately, we failed to do so until the end of our term, although the plans were already at such a stage that we were practically in the final phase. We all believe that a food safety inspection is needed, that the consolidation of these inspections is needed. The Minister has already spoken here, but I would like you to define more or less... Because, as I say, the previous government didn't make it by the end of its term. Will you be in time for your current term of office for four years, or will you still have to extend this term? Do you have time for these inspections? Because, I think, all the inspections are waiting for this, they're living in uncertainty, and they'd like to know when the connection actually happens, whether it's two for three or four years from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the consolidation of the inspection is concerned, there will be a project by the middle of the year, and by the end of the year, I hope Parliament will adopt... Like I said, 60 regulations... Thus, on 1 January 2018, the inspection will operate in a new organisational structure. As far as the introduction is concerned, it is unreasonable, Mr. Senator, that we have written an inability and used the various other terms that you quoted. Tell me what problem the coalition has solved. I'm telling you... You yourself said: Prime Minister Donald Tusk said in 2007 he had five priorities. First priority: consolidation of inspections and merger of agencies. So is it the ability that for 8 years these actions have not been realized, even though they were announced each year? The law on unfair practices, the fight against... the introduction of solutions in relation to supermarkets. The crop and animal insurance law. There was supposed to be a system. And so in turn, in turn... Give an example of the solutions that have been put in place that would make life easier for Polish farmers. Finally, the said review of the common agricultural policy. I was talking about the abolition of intervention prices, the liberalisation of agricultural markets. It is impossible to define this other than with the words "pastefulness," "inability" and other words, I do not remember. You've read a piece of our study. I think it's reliable and... As far as the balance is concerned, I will ask for an answer from Minister Bogucki, who deals with agricultural markets. I will only say this: it is good that Poland exports more than it imports. I'm just saying one more time: I want them to be Polish pigs, not Danish pigs. [[Danish?]] [[Come on, Danish.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u33	Thank you very much. [[And that we're importing, right?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u34	Your Senate, Minister, when it comes to the balance, it is statistically positive. But besides farming, I've been teaching math for a couple of years, and I'm moving pretty well in this area, and I know that statistics aren't very strict in science, they're part of math, and they can be manipulated. And in this statistics, we can't find the truth. The truth about the export of Polish pork is that in the last 8 years we have become an importer with an exporter, and out of 19 million people we have now 10, maybe 11 million. [[Lambs, rams...]] 1/3 pork on Polish tables is pork coming from outside, imported. I mean, from the countries of the European Union. This is not import according to the current nomenclature policy and principles, describing reality. Nevertheless, this pork, every third kilo on Polish tables, comes from outside Poland. Also with regard to fruit and vegetables, we are a significant importer. Much of the fruit comes from outside Poland. [[That's not true.]] Also a significant proportion of vegetables come from outside Poland. [[The bill...]] Of course, when it comes to fruit and vegetables, we import citrus fruits. Well, we have apples to sell, which, after the previous coalition, are very difficult to export. We have lost many markets in this area. Another market we can discuss is the milk market. We're exporting 14,15%. dairy products, on balance, only that Polish farmers do it at their own expense, because the price of buying milk in Poland is 10% lower than on average in the European Union and by 20% lower than in the neighbouring country, on the western border of the Polish country, so such an effort to gain markets is made at the expense of low buying prices for Polish farmers. The same situation applies to Polish poultry which has won European and European markets, but prices paid to Polish poultry farmers are, as in the case of milk, lower than the European prices and prices of our closest neighbours. It must be acknowledged that Polish poultry farmers achieved this effect without any state support. The State has not supported poultry production either from Union funds or from national measures for the past 8 years. As far as the fruit and vegetables market is concerned, it should be said that indeed Polish producers of apples and other fruits have achieved a great deal in terms of group building. A total of PLN 7 billion 600 million has been earmarked for this purpose from the EU and national budgets. Such support, in proportion to its size, has not yet been received by any agricultural sector. Unfortunately, these programmes were implemented in such a way that Poland has already paid EUR 55 million in penalties, and the issue of another 115 million is in the process of review and there are probably little chance that we will be able to defend ourselves from this penalty. Another penalty that Poland received for this purpose is the exclusion of 20% payments of European support for 2016/2017 in the fruit and vegetables group. Total of these penalties Just count it at the euro rate. They may soon come close to PLN 1 billion. As I said, significant progress has been made in storage, in packaging, in the sale of apples, fruit and vegetables in particular, but the costs for the state were enormous and unfortunately it turns out that the way of implementation was, in the assessment of the structures of the European Commission, incompatible with the applicable law at that time. To sum up this market effect, I will say that the example of how statistics can distort reality is the production of cigarettes, which are also included in the group of food products, although they are not. We are a serious exporter of cigarettes, this affects Poland's positive commercial balance, only that cigarettes are made from tobacco, which is mostly imported from outside Poland. Therefore, we import tobacco, plants located in Poland convert this tobacco into cigarettes and export, but, of course, excise duty on what is exported is not paid in Poland, but in other countries of the European Union. Thus, Poland's income from this production covers only employment of some group of people and income tax, if the plant pays taxes, and Polish farmers have relatively small income, taking into account the scale of this production. Similarly, we are a large exporter of coffee, but Polish farmers failed to produce a kilo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions for the Minister... [[The Minister stumbles on his way to the pulpit]] That'll be easy questions, Minister. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: Senate thresholds high...]] The first question concerns agricultural advisory centres. The Minister said they would be subject to the Ministry. Does this mean that there will be no subordinates to the voivodship's agricultural advisory centers to the voivodship? That's the first question. Second question. What effect do you have and what possibility of intervention in hunting circles in connection with your decision to fire 40,000 wild boars? I know some hunting wheels don't do that. And there are already complaints from farmers because they are starting to sow corn. And the third question. How are you going to reduce the overlay you've told the Minister about? He's no different from the assembly table for a good cause, because the farmer's profit from it is small, and the job has a lot to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u37	As far as agricultural advice is concerned, there is a bill that transfers competence. It is intended to be created on the basis of one of the agencies 'Cause we're taking out one. The development agency, which will also use agricultural advice in the field. And we want this advice to be real, not just illusory, as it is now. Because advisors do not have precise tasks and do not pursue any agricultural policy. As far as hunting circles and 40,000 wild boars are concerned, I made a decision that should have been taken two to three years ago, in terms of wild boar's sanitary discharge due to the threat of ASF from Ukraine and Belarus. There are agreements between veterinarians and county hunting circles. Like you said, there are a lot of complaints about the functioning of some hunting circles. As we know, the Polish Hunter Union is a structure which in my opinion requires repair, because it is practically not subject to control. The vast majority of hunters take the problems of the state seriously, while some do not want to be properly involved in these tasks at this stage. There is already a law in the Sejm that amends the law of the Hunting Law. We're introducing new compensation rules for hunting damages. And it's up to the voivode to determine the amount of compensation. There will also be a fund, which will consist of e.g. copies of the funds from the sold game. As far as fattening is concerned, all we have to do is check this large industrial one and make sure that there is no risk to the environment that has taken place in recent years; so-called safeguards must be taken into account. lagoon and compliance with production conditions. But it can't be banned. We have a free market economy, so it's the competition that needs to be fought against. [[Thank you very much. I take it there will be checks on the permits integrated into these farms?]] The point is to make them real, because the control system should work, but unfortunately he... [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] ...doesn't work. The Supreme Audit Chamber has also identified shortcomings in this area. [[I would still ask you very much to answer the first question. I take it these centers aren't gonna be voivodeships, they're gonna be centralized?]] They won't be subject, they will be. A new pionization, as it is... [[The Voyeur won't have any effect on these centers? 'Cause it's kind of bothering me.]] He will have no influence because the Minister of Agriculture is responsible for the policy. He will be responsible for technical activities, while the voivodship agricultural advisory centre will be subject to the Minister. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u38	Thank you very much. Now you're gonna ask Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask a serious question and get, if I may ask, an equally serious answer. Minister, I have submitted a statement to the Minister on the deadline for direct payments. The Minister replied very seriously to me that the delays were caused by shortcomings, errors in the IT system, in short. And my question is this: since there have been some shortcomings in this system And they probably were, as the Minister wrote about it. Was it not possible to make payments according to the old system and this new system could be refined? If you can, you can, and if you can't, you can't. I don't expect a long answer, Minister, I expect an answer only if it's a yes or a no. That's the first question. The second question came to me after Minister Jack Bogucki's speech, who is a lover of mathematics, but not necessarily statistics, and who said that the increase in our food exports At least that's how I figured it out. It was done, among other things. Thanks to the large export of cigarettes. Could you tell me if, in this 25 billion euro export... Are cigarettes the main source of export profit, and do you think we should be proud of that? Poland is today the largest exporter of cigarettes. Yeah, just don't let it be like that. What else did Senator Pęk announce in his previous term If we pay more for excise duty, cigarettes and alcohol, we will have more revenue in the budget than subsidies from the European Union. I see that this is such a very popular element of yours. And now I will return for a moment, Minister, to this work on the action programme. Minister, there are 60 pages on this. What was the Senator talking about? That they didn't do this to you, and those other guys... So it's such a political document. I will read only one passage concerning these empty promises. Could you tell me whether this has happened or whether it is still happening and whether you are not doing it anymore? The second empty promise of the previous government:.chaos in administration, nepotism and the transfer of positions to their own, changes of laws to make staff changes, violations of the constitution. Did you describe what happened in the previous period, or did this apply to the current events? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I will read this once again: changes to the laws in order to make changes in staffing, handing over positions to their own, breaking the constitution, this is on page 17, Minister, and the second empty promise. And also, Minister, when I read this great document, to the 60th page... There's still a signature from the Minister somewhere, but there's no signature for the 60th page, and I'd like to know the author, if you know his name. To the 60th page there are only invectives at the address of the predecessors, and yet when a reliable document is drawn up, it must be shown Not only the weak, but also the good, that would be fair and fair. Well, I don't know much about farming, but I think they've done something good for eight years. [[That's impossible.]] And now I would ask the Minister to comment. On page 40, you write like this. You don't have your signature, but I understand you're signing it. The decline in real income of agricultural families and the growing differences between the income of villagers and other groups... And a little bit further, you write: "A study of household budgets indicates a decrease in income disparities between rural and urban residents in the decade 2004 and 2014, but the pace of these changes is very slow." So tell me, what's it like? Is there a decline in these income disparities between the village and the city or not? To make it easier for you to answer, I'm going to read another sentence... [[Mr. Senator, do you know you have one minute to ask a question? I'm very tolerant, as you know, but it's been five minutes.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I was counting on your understanding... I'm almost done. To help the minister, I'll say... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that further, Minister, you write so that, despite the decline of these income disparities, there is still a high advantage in the income of the inhabitants of cities, especially large cities, over the income of the villagers. So what's it like? Is there any improvement or deterioration in the countryside? Tell me what it looks like in statistical terms. Even though statistics aren't strict science, as the Minister said... [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: What was the first question because I didn't write it down?]] Well, may I repeat... [[But not the whole thing, please, not the whole thing.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I must repeat. Minister, I meant the answer about the payments. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Minister said that the delay was caused by shortcomings or IT shortcomings. My question is: could payouts be made according to the old system and work on the introduction of a new one in parallel? Was it necessary to delay? I expect an answer, yes or no, without explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u40	You know, in order to understand the answer to this question, you'd have to remember all the IT issues that took place under the Platform, where... [[And what was that question for?]] ...in every institution... [[You should have asked that stupid question...]] ...there was and there's a problem, but you can't do it here. It was an old payout system... I already told you here. A new legislative package was adopted in 2013. This legislative package adopted other arrangements for area payments, and then the resort ordered the old system to be updated for 10 million. In 2015, the Council I don't know how the contract was constructed, but I don't have it on me, the contractor said it wouldn't work out, that it couldn't be matched, and a new contract for 37 million was concluded, which in such a short time It couldn't have been done. And that's what made us have to take these extraordinary actions. As far as the tobacco market in Poland is concerned, the coalition, which ruled, is also a great credit for bringing about the losses that the Treasury has as a result of this policy. First of all, the registration of tobacco growers was abolished, which resulted in the so-called. the first processing is driven and driven by unregistered tobacco, and the fact that there was no control, caused that in Poland cigarettes are produced in barns. For this reason, it is established that the budget is losing around 8 and 10 billion a year. In addition, the tobacco directive, which should have been introduced into the Polish legal system... When I was chairman of the committee in that term, we took steps to ensure that cigarette production in Poland did not collapse. Why? Because the directive has to come in 19 or something. Yes, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: May.]] May. And so far the bill has not been passed, because the coalition at that time, not wanting to extend the deadline for this law, has prepared it, but has delayed its adoption at a time so that our entities, which, as a result of the adoption of this law, are to change equipment, or machines, cannot do so, because it is not known what will be the final shape of cigarettes in which place the sticker is to be, because this is defined by the law. That is why we have already taken steps to ensure that in this law which we have addressed to the Sejm, we are extending the period of adaptation of the directive and of this regulation for a year; this is to enter into force. And then the coalition planned to kill the Polish cigarette industry, and this is exactly what is happening in many areas. That's why I said the dishonesty of this coalition was all about it. [[But that's not what I asked, Minister.]] But there's an opportunity to talk about it. [[But don't talk about it, but it's nice.]] As far as 60 pages are concerned, there's an audit. I already talked about it six hours in the Sejm, when Minister Kalemba was there, he filed an appeal. We have been collecting for 8 years all the materials concerning the operation of this coalition and the solutions that were implemented, so that 60 pages are only part of what could be written. As regards the chaos in administration, I would like to remind you that in 2012 Prime Minister Tusk sent internal control from the Prime Minister's office to the Ministry of Agriculture, to ARiMR. And there are these conclusions, Mr. Senator, about nepotism, about hiring friends. It's all in the documents drawn up by the Civic Platform. I would advise with this report... [[You haven't read your papers, Senator.]] Why are we talking about change? In 2008, the Council PSL, wanting to change employees... We're so far away, you know, we're not going. I think it's the government, which is someone who wants to pursue their program... It is in America that the presidential administration comes, 4,000 officials voluntarily giving in to a trade... We believe that in management positions in resorts, e.g. the position of director of the department, there should be appointments from the governing party, because it is we who are to implement a programme, which, for example, Law and Justice has... I don't remember the Platform... The platform had some kind of program: for everyone to live better. But the Polish People's Party did not have such a program and implemented... But it wasn't a show. I immediately adopted a law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, under which all deputy directors were cancelled within one day. It was as she gave the opinion of the experts at the time, contrary to the constitution. That was the assessment of it. With regard to the spread of income, there have been differences between groups over the last 10 years. I don't know the numbers now, but those studies we've had lately. - They're being analyzed. This policy, which has recently been pursued, has deteriorated in terms of rural areas and cities as regards the difference between quality of life in rural areas and cities. Because if we're talking about quality of life, we need to compare a number of indicators here. I, if you don't mind, will give you this report and my conclusions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u41	Thank you very much. Now you're gonna ask Senator Marshal Borowski. [[I'm dropping the question. But please, Mr. Marshal, write to the speeches in the discussion. Okay?]] It's Senator Augustine now. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but...]] Is there a problem with the microphone? Well, maybe right now, Mr. Senator Rybicki, and in the meantime, we'll solve the problem. [[Oh, here we go.]] Yes? Is that okay? [[You can... oh, I mean...]] There you go. Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u42	Thank you. Minister, the Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States, also known as the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with North America... I would like to ask about the bill... This agreement brings many good solutions and maybe many benefits for Polish agriculture, but also many risks, especially for the competitiveness of Polish agriculture. I would like to ask: what actions are being taken by the Minister and the Government to strengthen the Polish negotiating position - which is also due to the Polish position in the European Union And how much do the government and the ministry take care of this negotiating position, and how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u43	Mr Senator, Mr Marshal, I have taken various actions on this subject, we have written an intervention to the Government, to the Minister for Development, who is taking general action because he is responsible for the negotiations on this matter within the European Union. On the other hand, we have adopted a joint letter signed by the main states in the Agriculture Council, which states that simply an agreement in this form, in terms of agriculture and access to agricultural markets, should not enter into force at this stage. Commissioner Hogan, who is the Commissioner for Agriculture, is to negotiate this and is to present the conditions on this issue at one of the meetings of the Agriculture Council. The possible consequences of implementing this agreement in this form for European agriculture are also to be presented. So that action is being taken. If there are specific positions or decisions, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Have you... [[Yeah, it's okay.]] Yes? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u45	Minister, we're getting some of the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Probably the same writings, avalanches of writings from owners of fur animals who protest against the intention to reduce this type of animal production. What is the ministry's attitude towards this issue? That's the first thing. I'm asking because we'd like to know what to say. The second case concerns agricultural cooperatives. Namely, what is the justification that also agricultural cooperatives as a result of the recently introduced law will not be able to purchase land from the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury for the coming years? This was asked yesterday during a meeting with the co-workers. Some of them also raised the issue of organic access to a number of EU funds for cooperatives. Minister, is anything going to change about this in the near future?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u46	Thank you very much. As far as fur animals are concerned, the Minister for the Environment is responsible for issuing regulations in this area. Here, above all, is the problem with local environments, with the American mink, which is very harmful. My role is to check veterinary conditions and the matter of disposal... As a resort, we do not intend to limit the production of fur animals. At this stage it is a good interest for Poland, Poland is one of the larger producers, so that the Ministry of Agriculture does not intend to interfere in this, except in the control of compliance with veterinary regulations. The second issue is the issue of agricultural cooperatives and land. As I said before, at this stage we introduced the principle that the land buyer could be an individual farmer. At the same time, we are working on this relevant law on shaping the agricultural system and we want to analyse with the environment other organisational forms, similar, e.g. civil companies in France. And now, sir, the cooperative must have a statute and shape that would prevent people from taking the land into the hands of other people than individual farmers. At the same time, individual farmers can now come together in cooperatives and can manage together. There's no discrimination on our part here. The introduction of this solution was due to the fact that shareholders in cooperatives at the stage at which these cooperatives are with us could simply acquire land contrary to the idea of our law, with the solution introduced in it. At the same time, in the near future, we will submit a draft law on farmers' cooperatives, like pre-war solutions, where capital will be indivisible and the possibility for cooperatives to benefit from the benefits. We want these cooperatives to act this way, of course those which will want to turn into farmers' cooperatives which, in our view, will be more effective in dealing with agricultural matters.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Minister Bogucki. You said that excise duty wasn't paid in the country because we export a lot. For this reason, I am actually very happy because of one excise duty it is not the main motor that gives you money, although one of the important ones, but the other fact is that there are workplaces that have been created thanks to Western companies, among others. Imperial Tobacco or the world-leading Philip Morris, who have decided to enter Poland as the first of the countries of the Eastern Block. They came in because zones were created, great bets were created that gave thousands of people jobs. Such a plant was opened by Poznan, among others. Mr. Marshal Borowski sitting here, I don't remember, but I think it was a good 20 years ago. On the one hand, exports, because different species are sold abroad, but on the other hand they are produced in our country. I sensed some concern in your voice. Is there anything planned for these bets to have, I don't know, any restrictions, or something else going on? I'm asking because you introduced such a note of anxiety, as if it were a tragedy, that these bets are prospering and exporting as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u49	Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. It's not that it's... it's not that simple to find a note in someone's voice... I didn't mean any subtexts and I just said that Polish agriculture is minimally benefiting from the fact that we are a large exporter and a cigarette producer. That's a fact. Even when we were a much smaller producer, when there were no global companies in Poland, when cigarettes were produced on the Polish market, and this was filled in, Polish farmers produced much more tobacco than they are currently producing. Polish farmers, despite such a huge production of cigarettes, have problems selling tobacco leaves produced in their fields. These facts only indicate that from the point of view of Polish agriculture, this production does not have any effect in the form of the use of domestic raw materials. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Polish government, as Minister Jurgel said, is very strongly supporting this production and this industry, even if we are going to move forward the implementation of the EU directive by one year so that producers, mainly foreign-capital producers producing cigarettes in Poland, have more time to prepare for the planned changes. Our strong support for this sector does not conflict with our agricultural ministry's analysis and assessment, which shows that tobacco production in Poland, by Polish farmers, is too little used to... That's all I wanted to say when I examined this market. My predecessor, Mr. Senator, suggested that I had something else in mind, but I didn't. I was just talking about tobacco being one of the main export goods. As I recall, under 22 billion exports, tobacco revenues are, like, 1 billion 600 or something within these limits. I may be wrong because I quote from memory, and I didn't check it out in the meantime, but this is a level close to 10%. This is a significant market share, one of the larger market shares I'm talking about the commercial balance sheet. I also mentioned that people are employed in this production, that taxes are paid in Poland, and as far as excise duties are concerned, all I meant was that if this excise duty was paid in Poland in full, the revenue of the budget would be in better condition. But we are bound by the law of the European Union, according to which the tax is paid in the country where the final consumer, the recipient, is sold. This is a positive phenomenon, although it is also an agricultural resort, and Polish farmers would expect national raw materials to be used to a greater extent and for this production and for any other production related to the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u50	Thank you, Minister. Senator Rulewski is on the floor, but I don't see him in the courtroom, and Senator Wach will take the floor, and another one will be Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u51	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Actually, first of all, I would like to express my appreciation for your availability, for the fact that you have been answering questions for four hours. This has not always been the case in this Chamber and it should be accepted, but I will say that I do not agree with everything, especially in the sphere of the opinion you are giving. I have two questions, but before I ask them, I will say two more polemic sentences, if you will allow me, to speak to Minister Bogucki. Minister, statistics is a mathematical science: giving the same data, you get the same results... [[But the Minister's knowledge is inconclusive.]] ...the statistics used by politicians and in various responses are used differently, and that's the point, that's the problem. It was only recently that people were explained the difference between average and median. When you don't have knowledge, of course you can twist everything. The fact that tobacco production and cigarettes are included in agricultural production and exports is a political decision rather than a statistical one. That's one thing. Second thing, polemic. You've made very archaic views. The Lord says: all of ours, all of us, all of our profits for us. You can't do that. By trading, also in the field of agriculture and agriculture, we would just be alone with our own and we would have relatively little. It's the balance sheet that counts. And the questions that were here were about the balance sheet. And in these balance sheets, it's always like you buy something and you get something. It is best, of course, to make your own contribution, and especially agricultural, to have a high one, but that cannot be done unilaterally and you should know that. I'm sorry about the nuisance. Minister, I have two questions. Unfortunately, I'll go back to the studs. You've been kind enough to say And he's well-founded this thing. That it was necessary to exchange management there. But actually my question is why these changes and this exchange were so bad, because they are so judged. Neither do I have full knowledge of this, but these external events that took place and, let's say, this odium, both media and international, was very negative and disproportionate to the importance of the case. Why were these nominations, which resulted from the exchange, so bad in the assessment of many? And I think that's what happened. And the second question, I would say, is much more important when it comes to agriculture. There was a lot of talk about programmes, there was much talk about future spending from EU and own resources. These programs were, like, numerically exchanged. As for the specifics, you said that there would be a new water law, that a new water company law should be expected. My question generally concerns water management, namely rural water supply problems, as well as the prevention of the effects of both drought and floods, which occur in excess of water. How will these great programs and this great money improve what you are talking about, namely the strategic issue that a single farmer can't actually handle, and even a group of farmers, apart from, say, build a well? How will these programmes and the law to be implemented try to address the water imbalance that is occurring and seems to be deteriorating with climate change, in the sense that there are more severe droughts and also more frequent periods of significant excess water that we cannot manage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u52	As far as the horse stud is concerned, especially in Janów, I already mentioned it at the outset, Mr. Senator. There was simply evidence, and it was the evidence of government authorities, that there were irregularities, and there was no possibility of any other decision than this one, the president of the agency made a change. The amendment consisted in the appointment of a director and the announcement of a competition. The competition's been announced. But you're watching reality in Poland. The media, which are especially in possession of liberal environments, can convey everything in a successful, even untruthful way. Because if I say that the company in Janów operates 2 types of activity, so one is horse breeding, but the bigger is agriculture, milk production, cereals, and the chief was appointed a man with a higher education, after the economy of agriculture, working 4 years as vice-director at the bank, 8 years as vice-president of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, then I do not know how many companies in Poland are appointed to heads of better professionals, even if the nominations of the then ruling Platform are taken into account. So that this attack was caused by organized groups who were earning income from this stud by improper organization of this event. These are the statements of the Central Bureau of Corruption, not mine, I emphasize that. I wanted to cancel these gentlemen. They were canceled by the president. I just wanted it to be clear. Because it was also addressed to the prosecutor's office, not only for mismanagement, but also for the wrong economy when it comes to veterinary and horse breeding. And I wanted everything to be explained calmly. But the gentlemen wanted to play it all mediaally. I believe that at the end of the day, however, society will have the knowledge that will allow us to say calmly that this decision was absolutely right and necessary. And I'd like you, Mr. Senator, to take a look at the documents. You, as a senator, have the right to access information that is not available to everyone. But you can't say everything either. Because contrary to what some of the environments or these gentlemen say, I care about the horse stud. She wasn't very well run. There was no running water, at least. The uncle wanted to run the wire so we could put on surveillance for free. They didn't want to either. So, you know, that mismanagement was really big. And we'll see how NIK and law enforcement go about it. But I didn't care to make it public. I don't like to accuse anyone. I'd rather the case be cleared up. But someone wanted to... and they've already started the fight. Just as some environments are now beginning to talk about the Servant, that there were wrong decisions. I, in 2005, when I first became Minister, thwarted the takeover of the Servant by a group of 30 people. At that time they wanted to lease for 30 years, take over those 160 or 170 hectares in the city center and manage them differently. Then we managed to include in all this the Totalizator Sports, which cooperates... And now you have to make changes to make this object great. 'Cause the structure there is such a full democracy... And everyone means most, I don't want to accuse anyone. He's trying to do his own business. There is a need for a strong hand, strong management and good advice, chosen by the institutions, associations that are engaged in breeding horses. And I think this move is good, too. Of course, some people don't like it anymore, they run the media, especially those who do not want the breeding of horses in Poland to have the right dimension. As far as water law is concerned, we are dealing with negligence there, as the directive has long been a directive, but the previous coalition did not want this water law to be proclaimed, directed... I don't know what the reasons were. The Minister responsible shall be the Minister for the Environment. But, as I said, we have established the Ministry of Economy, which has developed or is developing a project to pave the way for water roads in Poland. We, Mr. Senator, as a resort, have a national programme of melioration, as well as a small and large retention. Well, there are resources needed, we are at the stage of the development plan, and by the end of June there will be a strategy, the first stage in September... and within this we must allocate funds, among others. for water management. What amount it's going to be, it's a question of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Chróścikowski. You will prepare Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u54	Thank you. Minister, farmers are now very strongly raising the problem of extinction and the issue of seed applications. And they're asking how it is that there aren't any rates now. It used to be known what the return rates were. And farmers raise this problem, because they know by when, they know what, but when it comes to proposals, they don't know how the problem will be solved. And they're upset. Because they bought seed once, in the fall, and now they have to buy seed twice for the same area. How will this be taken into account? Is the government already taking action in this direction or not? Because there is a terrible upset about this issue, especially as regards some regions of Poland, where there are very big dreams. So, what are the rates? Because, as I remember, the previous time was that the rates were set, the farmers knew what the payment was for wheat and what was for potatoes. Today, farmers don't know at all and ask: what are we supposed to put together, for what? Maybe I'll ask for an answer in this case, explaining if you're going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u55	Mr. Senator, last year, the previous coalition, the PO coalition, the PSL has pushed through a change in the rules on seed subsidies and indeed the one that was created in the years 2005-2007, as I remember, the support mechanism, the mechanism that has worked very well over the years, has been ruined. It was ruined because instead of the rule that had been in force so far, and the fixed rates, which of course have been reduced over the years, have been reduced for these 8 years, because the previous coalition still seemed to be suffering from money damage to agriculture, a system was introduced in which a rigid amount was set in the state budget and only after the proposals were collected will the calculation of the rate and the granting of the subsidies be calculated. So it's up to the number of applications that are going to go down that's going to depend on this rate. We were not able to change these rules in such a short period of time, because it required changes both in law and in budget terms and changes that would take place at the same time, and let me remind you that we are working on the basis of a budget... [[Neglect, neglect.]] ...prepared by the predecessors. Of course, knowing the problem, knowing that winter frosts have led to an increase in the demand for seed, in many cases for double sowing of fields, so in autumn and now, in spring, we are looking in the budget of the country's reserves, which would allow for an increase in the amount earmarked for this purpose, an additional transfer of funds, and to ensure that the rates are not lower than so far. When we have a balanced number of applications submitted, it will be the moment to find this amount. I would like to assure you that this money will not be found, but to assure the senator that we will be looking very strongly for it, and we are already seeing the sources of such transfers. I hope that Polish farmers will receive no less than they have received so far on 1 ha, regardless of how many applications they will submit. At the same time, from next year we want to change the rules of support for seed production. A special inter-ministerial team has already been set up to analyse the effectiveness of this mechanism and how this mechanism will be improved so that this support can be made as far as possible to farmers. We would like to analyse this also in this respect, whether this kind of surcharge does not cause the seed-marketing companies to be disposed of, and to remind you that this is also an area which the previous coalition has privatized to a large extent, that the state plant-breeding has been disposed of, that the state seeding has been disposed of, that the companies with foreign capital have taken over, and that they often dictate prices for seed... In any case, we want to analyse this in terms of how much this grant actually goes to the farmer, and how much this grant increases seed prices and earns only those who import seed, because I will remind you that a significant part of the seed after these achievements of the previous coalition is imported from outside Poland. Therefore, as I said, this mechanism will certainly be strengthened and continued, because these are our first conclusions after the meeting of this team, but in such a way that it is real support for Polish agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u56	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Florek, you'll be ready for Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u57	I'll refer to my previous statement. Mr. Marshal, there's a bad signal coming from the Senate room, a signal to the rectors of economic universities that we shouldn't educate in statistical directions, because And I'm going to quote what the Minister said. The statistics are falsifying reality. That's the signal. When I get home, I'll take a look at my yearbooks. I'm wondering if you'd like to wait for a new one. If you release new ones, I'll read them, and I'll throw them away. Minister, we're sort of racing the United States. You said that the changes in the United States after the election affected 4,000 people, and you only changed 306 people in the restructuring agency. Well, along the way, you've changed some more people... If I multiply it by the number of resorts we have, it will turn out, Minister, that you are already exhausted, so be careful. If we want to race Americans, then... Unless we want to beat them up in the sense that we're going to make more changes than they are after the election. Our Poland is such a large one state that it would only be... Please consider that this limit is exhausted. My question, Minister, is this. In the information you have provided us, there is nothing about agricultural and animal insurance, and when you accused the Prime Minister that the previous coalition had done nothing about any cases, you mentioned the issue of insurance. I want to tell you, based on the situation in Wielkopolska, that every year in Wielkopolska there was either a drought or a flood or a frostbite. This year we already have frosts, so it is already known that farmers will turn to us in this matter, and we still have many, many months to come. That's what happens every year. I would like to know what the Minister has plans for agricultural insurance, what changes you are planning. This problem has not ceased for many, many years and remains unresolved. I think the Minister will propose changes that will be acceptable to everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u58	Thank you very much. When it comes to statistics, there are jokes about it, but they're not pretty, so I'm not gonna quote them. Maybe we can talk about this later. As far as agricultural and animal insurance is concerned, we have submitted to the Sejm a draft law in this respect restoring the possibility of package insurance and raising the premium from 6% to 9%, which would enable the reimbursement of part of... This is the first stage. In the material you have, it says that we are planning to set up a mutual insurance company, we have already undertaken organizational and formal work. We want one of the companies in which the contribution fund has a stake, to manage This is the property of the State Treasury. And organize a mutual insurance company in Poland, which through cooperation with the Post would be a common insurer. This procedure is ongoing and I would like a concept to be created by mid-year and then concrete legal solutions. From the resources of the RDPs it will be possible to support such associations in the event of natural disasters or disasters. Like I said, the case is underway. In addition, we are introducing an agricultural income stabilisation fund that is used in many countries. Such a bill was carried out in the previous Parliament, but we want to change it a bit and put it back into Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u59	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Spokesperson, and you're preparing Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u60	Minister, I have a question about a question that often goes through these documents. She's been known for 20 years when the system changed. The point is that rural development cannot be based solely on the development of agriculture Alternative sources of income are needed. One such way for additional revenues under this document is to be renewable energy sources. How do you intend to potentially support farmers or small businesses so that this element of development, through renewable sources, can be an alternative to rural residents? That's the first question. The second question is: what is the concept of the urban development of the village? Because there's a record in this document. And the last sentence. This subject has already been raised here, but I would like to ask about a small retention and melioration, because it is a very neglected system, and it is indeed linked to soil productivity. There are, of course, many years of negligence, even from the time of the previous system. But I would just like to signal that there is knowledge about this subject that is worth using. I have the pleasure of living in the area where Dezydery Chłapowski lived and worked, a general who introduced modern agriculture already in the 19th century. The Institute of Agricultural Environment and Forest PAS works, there is knowledge about this and I think it's worth simply going back to it. Water collection should start at the source, it is really worth going back to a small retention, this basic water management and support it. I think this will help solve at least some of the water problems, especially in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u61	I will answer one question about ordering the development of spatial planning. Senator, in terms of spatial planning in Poland, it has been neglected and investments are generally carried out in rural areas on the basis of a decision on the conditions of development and development. And around the world, the basis for destiny, whether to determine the land's functions is a spatial planning plan. We want to introduce local general and detailed plans. If you have ever had contact with spatial planning, you probably know that such a model once existed in Poland. And we want to restore it, so that the Polish village is managed according to the plans of local spatial development, not on the basis of decisions, the result of which is the distortion of the landscape of the Polish village. We will, of course, make, together with the Minister of Infrastructure, amendments to the law on planning and spatial planning, introducing these elements. Now I'll ask Mr. Zarudski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I would like to address two topics: Renewed energy sources, small retentions and meliorations. These two topics are very interesting and important. Tomorrow at 11 a.m., there will be a conference on innovative agriculture: directions of development and financial instruments, in the European Parliament Information Office and Representation building of the European Commission in Warsaw. I will represent the management of the Ministry, and there will be Mr Michael Pilke, representative of the European Commission, and Vice-President of the Sejm Committee on Agriculture and the Sub-Committee on Renewable Energy, Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski. We're going to present a program there... An innovative approach to renewable energy sources... Mr. Senator, we are working on how to use renewable energy sources to create new jobs and develop this entrepreneurial activity. We're working on it. This topic is very important to us. That's one thing. I don't want to talk about the details here. I want to talk about to what extent and where we place... First we enter innovation in rural areas, we build the programme. Secondly, in the Rural Pact, as if we were consolidating national measures, all ideas... As I said, the pact is an agreement with external partners to build a proactive attitude when it comes to renewable energy sources. This is the second place where our programme proposals, funding methods and next steps will be identified. All I can say is we're working on it. One of the teams that were formed after April 25th... After the last meeting on the Pact, teams were formed and one of the important topics that is constantly recurring is renewable energy sources. So now we're in a period It will be 4 months or 5 months when it is possible to act actively, we implement our electoral programme in a concrete way, doing specific tasks. It's gonna take a little more time, because it's like it's going on, because we're combining different sources of funding. This is the first case with regard to renewable energy sources. As for the small retention and melioration, Minister Jurgiel and Mr Babalski and I also participated in this meeting, we met with the Wrocław scientific community. I won't repeat the names of the professors, but it was a respectable group. And that's where we were introduced... Here, too, this is a pact action, and this is a working group. Because when it comes to water, water law, it's not like there's anything to say about how important it is, how important everyone... We invite you all to actively cooperate for... And I'm not just saying it out of courtesy, really all hands on deck, because water is very important. But I want to say that we already have 16 voivodship studies on small retention. It's in our house, you can say... Scientists came to us themselves and said: "We want to get involved..." They looked up various issues in our programming tasks, which inspired them, and they said: we want to deal with it. We've taken up this subject, we've signed some preliminary arrangements. And, as the Minister stressed, we have been building a department of science, advice, knowledge transfer and innovation in the Ministry since 1 July. We're rebuilding. And there's counseling in this element, too. It is precisely such actions that will unite, consolidate... through which it will be possible to e.g. carry out the task: small water retention and melioration. Here's the water law, here's the launch... 'Cause we've got one of the actions blocked. That's what I was talking about today. The Rural Development Programme, which cannot be launched without water law and water law, is the key. But let's move on. I assure you that these two themes are one of the foundations of our idea for further... But it takes a little time, you can't do it in five months. The idea is and we're realizing it. Thank you for this question, because this is an opportunity to tell you at what stage we are at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan. You're getting ready for Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Once again, if I may ask, I have a question for Minister Bogucki, and in fact I have two questions. First. We talked a lot about exports, but the Law and Justice government announced tightening the rules plus sealing the borders so that the budget revenues are much bigger. Has the grey tobacco production zone, including a very large drought, been eradicated over the past few months? Has anything been introduced that stopped exports, especially from Ukraine and Eastern countries, of illegal cigarettes without excise duty to our country? As if you could briefly answer that question. The second question I have is more technical and maybe not to the Minister, but looking at your assassination, maybe there's something we can do here. I've already written two statements in this case. [[Cell phone signal]] Someone's phone is ringing. Why is this so that if there is a change of excise duty It's always the first time on 1 January, and in 2 months you have to replace tobacco products and not have those with excise duty cut in retail sales? Old excise duty, i.e. excise duty properly paid, legal, which was admitted to the market. Why does it have to be mentioned? If this is not exchanged, then such a person, such an entrepreneur is punished courtly, and if he has already exchanged, it is the whole complicated procedure associated with the notification of the tax office plus to that of buying legalisation excise duties... the legalization banner, putting it on packages, so it is the destruction of these products, to put legal goods on the market for the second time legally. What's the point? It was once feared that tobacco companies would be wrestling to pay lower excise duties, but today the case is so expensive that no one is wrestling anymore. If this is the case with tobacco products, why does it not work with alcohol? We have the same excise duty, and we have the raises. Why don't you just do it for those products over there, and here... You don't know who came up with that idea. For many years, small shopkeepers in small towns have been persecuted, who sometimes have 1 package, 2 or 5 packs of cigarettes with legal banners, which they bought a day or two before, and then they become illegal. I can't understand it. I'd ask for backup here to change that really sick recipe. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u65	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u66	Thank you very much. Maybe I can say this: the minister responsible for excise duty and other taxes is the minister of finance, so that we... The Minister for Agriculture in the tobacco market is more concerned with seed production and production itself. So as far as finance matters go, I'd like you to ask the senator a question, a question to the finance minister. [[Yes, but... and the first question to Minister Bogucki?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u67	In the case, Mr. Marshal, High Senate... The answer to both questions is actually the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I'm not here to answer for the finance minister. But today, probably at 4:00 p.m., there will be a session of the Sejm Committee, which will take care of, among others. The issue of excise duty on cigarettes, so I invite the marshal, if he can find a moment, to this committee meeting. There will be a representative of the Ministry of Finance and you will be able to ask him about these details. Nevertheless, the government is a whole and as a whole we work... And for the first time, I think something like this is happening, at least in the case of previous governments I haven't seen too often such situations that the resorts work very well, even with difficult topics. On the one hand, the problem of tobacco taxation is the problem of the Ministry of Finance and the fiscal problem, and on the other hand, we, as an agricultural resort, are to ensure that Polish farmers who grow tobacco can be competitive on European and global markets so that they can continue to produce tobacco. And that is our concern. That is why we are meeting with the Ministry of Finance, we have already met, we will also meet next week and we will talk about the development of rules that will seal the market, improve the excise system and at the same time give Polish farmers involved in such production an opportunity to legally produce and dispose of their products and at the same time to those who process Polish tobacco. But it's also imported because... I'm not an anti-importer here, under any circumstances. If any of your senators were talking about it, that means I was misunderstood. If this import comes to us and complements Polish production, then it is good. We will look for solutions that will allow these absurdities that have arisen in the past years to endure. 'Cause it's a big dose. It's all about that again. In the previous coalition or in the political predecessors rather than in the current government, you can find those responsible for mathematical thinking and probabilities. And that's what the probability is, because we've ruled two years and a few months in total, and our predecessors. Depending on which party it would be... But as far as PSL is concerned, for most 26 years the Civic Platform and its political predecessors... After all, this formation was based on earlier existing formations, also those governing probably for most of these 25 years. Yet, as if agreeing with Professor Senator on statistics, I would say that I, on purpose, have said in such a slightly controversial way what was relevant to statistics. But I really know what statistics are. However, this really sounds good in the mouth of the opposition party, and recently a ruling party, when it admits that it manipulates statistics as a politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u68	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u69	Minister, I would like to ask you about the Ukrainian embargo on food products. Has it been lifted yet? If so, when? If not, why not? When was it introduced? What losses have we suffered in connection with this embargo? What categories of products was it imposed on? On what pretext? And the last question is, are they threatening us again if we're not in force right now? How does this apply to issues related to our assistance to Ukraine in other spheres? Was this embargo, in your opinion, imposed in any explanation, or was it simply a pretext?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u70	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u71	Mr. Marshal, one of the senators has asked that question before. I said that in this regard the Minister of the Economy is acting on our request, and I asked that a detailed written reply be given, stating the facts as of today. So, Mr. Senator, we're going to give you an answer in writing on this subject, giving you all the elements that you've been talking about in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u73	Minister, of course, it is very easy to hide from political competitors and sensitive media, as you have done in your speech, but as far as studs are concerned, I would advise you to talk to the equestrian environment, what you think about this slaughter of our two export goods, which have been the studs in Janów and Michałów so far. The commune couldn't do it, you fucked them. [[Voice from the room: Come on...]] I'm not done yet. The equestrian environment has an opinion on this, the equestrian environment knows what mistakes have been made. The equestrian community will tell you about it, but please listen to what these people, the horse-riding enthusiasts know about horses. Because they know how to grow them, they know how to respond to their problems, what to do, who to contact in the first place, before you drive a horse to a fixed treatment and the horse falls. We just need to talk to them. If you had talked to them, you would have heard where mistakes were made by incompetent people. Your problem is that they were simply appointed incompetent to deal with matters that require really high competences, because that's what they've been learning for years, and sometimes for 20 years. This says the riding environment in different parts of the country, and it just so happens that I have good contact with this environment, I listen to this environment, and I learn what it thinks about this policy. But that's not what I wanted to ask you. I would like to ask you about the regulation on this specific safari which you want to organise in Poland as regards wild boars. 40,000 wild boars to kill are a huge number. Even hunters rebel against this great safari. I understand that you do not act in the interests of hunters; I am not a hunter, I do not speak in the interests of hunters. I'd like to ask you if you've considered what it will mean for our ecosystem to slaughter about 40,000 boars. And I would ask you for a moment to reflect on this before you make a decision, so that the slaughter of these 40,000 boars would not be similar to the slaughter of these 2 export goods, such as studs... were studs in Janów and Michałów. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u74	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel sorry for you, Senator, because you keep repeating phrases and you don't understand certain things. There is no one equestrian environment in Poland, just as there is no one party in Poland. There is an environment that is interested in the development of horse breeding in Poland and therefore I am setting up a team consisting of 45 specialists from different breeds and they are professors. Show patience, you'll really get it all straightened out and you'll understand that you just kept repeating the phrases and that you don't really understand it all, you don't understand what it was all about and what it was all about. I'll tell you, 50 horses have fallen in the last five years, and there's been a question of extortion for damages. After no horse fell, the autopsy was done, and now the autopsy was done. Don't worry about the responsibility, because the D.A.'s office was notified in the first, second and third cases. In a decent country, and yet you are fighting for a democratic state, so you think, the prosecution will determine who is responsible for all this. I'm not afraid. If it turns out it's my fault, the law enforcement authorities will probably come up with some conclusions. And you keep your weight and don't repeat clichés and stupidity. Nothing has been slaughtered, everything is functioning well, the auction will take place in August, and it will certainly not be worse than those that were before, except that there will be a few million in the treasure of the state. [[I will certainly convey your words, Minister, to the dozens of equestrian environments I have spoken to. I'd be happy to tell them you call their opinions stupid.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm sorry, but this isn't a discussion, it's questions to the Minister and answers, so please...]] I ask you once again to be serious, to maintain senate dignity and not repeat what is not true, because it does not suit the senator. I can really bring you some people who will say that someone has finally taken the right action to finish what happened in this stud of one or the other. Savage business, sir. After 2 years, experts themselves admitted that it was a mistake to block the reduction of wild boars in the event of ASF, whose vectors are wild. I, sir, have taken advantage of the opportunity provided by the law, which allows me to make a decision on a sanitary discharge in the event of a threat to the health and life of people. It's about health. The real threat comes from Ukraine and Belarus, especially Ukraine, where the African swine fever situation is not contained. In addition, at the request of Poland, the European Commission shall implement a programme financed by the European Union to secure and close this area in order to reduce the spread of African swine fever. I've issued, according to the veterinary services... a European Commission regulation, a recommendation, sir, for the relevant veterinary authorities, to be 0.5 wild in an area of 1 km2. And here no law is broken. There's a deal, there's a check on the state... We have secured funds that, unfortunately, the government could not secure, at the rate of 18 million, but from what we can see, as the facts are established, this amount will not be used. So that if you want to slander and accuse someone, read EU law, Polish law, and then speak up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u76	Senator Dowhan, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u77	Thank you. I have a question about these boars 'cause I thought about it. Why don't you tell the minister how this gunshot is going to take place or if it's butchered, as the senator's colleague says, 40,000 pieces. Who's gonna monitor it, dispose of it? I'd also like you to mention the costs. That's my first question. And second question. It was very loud a month or two ago about the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act, it was about the famous windmills. Is something going to change in this area, or is something going on here? Because judging by companies listed on the stock exchange related to the production of renewable energy... They went very hard down, and this involves the risk that there may be very large restrictions or taxes, or even the ban on the use of already existing windmills that function.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u79	As far as the reduction in the number of boars is concerned, this is described in detail in the various laws and regulations. I made a decision on the basis of the law; the rules are contained in the agreement between the district veterinarian and the hunting circle. The cost for 1 piece is PLN 310. The disposal shall be carried out In accordance with the agreement, the arrangements that have so far been applied to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which has the means for this purpose. Believe me, no law can be broken and no law broken. The Regulation authorises the conclusion of a contract. Contracts shall be concluded in accordance with Polish and EU law. As far as renewable energy is concerned, the Minister of Energy is the competent minister. We work closely together. I would like to say that the law that was adopted last year, after many years, with a delay of three years, is being amended. By the end of June a law should be adopted to increase the opportunities for the development of renewable energy sources in rural areas. Agreements are under way between the Minister of Energy, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture, and I hope that such arrangements will be reached. - It's about the stakes. In rural areas renewable energy sources can be implemented. As for the windmills, let me stress once again that their case is about terms. When this is completed... the Minister of Infrastructure is the competent minister. The Act deals with solutions arising from construction law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u81	Minister, I just want to intervene. It would be very good if ministers also knew that they were not from teaching senators. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Please?]] Ministers aren't from teaching senators, Minister, so... [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: I am not from teaching...]] Don't speak to the senators in the tone you used in Senator Klich's case. [[Going twice.]] This is outrageous. Now, here's the question. Is it true what I read recently in the media that the Janów Podlaski stud is threatening to lose subsidies from the European Union? Second line. Very often I meet with local action groups. Apart from the fact that they are indeed evidence that the predecessors have tried to make good use of EU funds and have done a lot, these groups have always raised the issue It was not possible to change this before. The big gap between the bureaucratic requirements in the scheme and the requirements in their programme. Are you now working to reduce these bureaucratic burdens? Is there really a way to overcome this infirmity from previous years? Finally, the specific question. The Minister just said that according to Polish law companies will be selected, which will be disposed of by these wild boars. In what particular procedure? And if they've been selected, what are they?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u83	The disposal is carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. He's doing it. I don't remember exactly. For at least 15 years, legally, in accordance with contracts that have been signed with the Ministry of Agriculture, so that there is no problem in this case. Detailed information about the procedure will be provided to you in writing, if you don't mind. As far as the grant is concerned, I'm not familiar with the grant case in Janów. These companies cannot be financed. This is also one of the problems that arose after Minister Sawicki collected funds from direct payments to entities with more than 150 000 euro payments. This has led to a deterioration in the last two years. Because this was done in 2013 and the financial situation of many strategic companies. We want to bring it back, but since 2018, because the procedures for change require time. However, we want these companies to really start to function, and not to be like when they tried to bring down certain horse studs or take over these studs by private individuals. We've blocked this process. And we'll block it. And believe me, the Horse Farming Council, which has been established, will finally develop a strategic programme for the development of horse breeding in Poland. In the first stage, he's gonna go over there to analyze the state... the dangers, the chances of what they are, the directions... Not only that, I say, artificial promotion through one event in a year, thanks to which our situation in horse breeding is artificially assessed. Let me see if there is any programme of development of horse breeding in Poland. Yeah, well...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u84	Minister, I won't show you, but... Because the Minister addresses his speech to me, Mr. Marshal, so I'm just ad vocem. [[Yes, yes, please.]] But I would ask you not to tell us that everything is okay and everyone, all the environments are wrong. Is it true, for example, that foreign partners want to withdraw from cooperation with studs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u85	Sir, we'll see what happens in August. That's not true. More people volunteered to sell horses at auction than they were. Be patient until August. We will meet at the end of August, as God wills, and then we will present the information. Then you'll find out. I am sure because this agreement was concluded today with a new entity who will carry out all this in a way that is not worse. It is one of the professional companies that will do it with the participation of the local government. Really, I ask you to be patient and not repeat the nonsense that the press often writes that something is wrong that something is happening. There are no irreplaceable people. There are no ministers irreplaceable. Nobody's irreplaceable. Really, Poland won't collapse because some guests... [[Guys, guys.]] ...can't benefit, often unwarrantedly. The next question will be answered by Minister Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u86	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u87	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, one of the specializations I took before I came to the Ministry is the local partnership, the local action groups, Leader. I've been doing this since 2000. So four years before membership and the first pattern... And that's where I'd like to answer... Thank you so much for that question. Of course, the procedures that were in the previous period, in the years 2007 and 2013, were, I would say, far insufficient and unsatisfactory. Because at least the largest percentage of rejections, the largest percentage, even to... I myself worked on this, directly, creating a strategy, working in a restructuring agency, assessing the above-mentioned conclusions. We know there was a problem with micro-enterprises. First of all, I have one, you can say, very substantive... As regards the assumptions that were adopted in the 2007 and 2013 RDPs, I have, until the previous programming period, the following objection. In no way, despite the pressures of the different environments, the people I also belonged to, and the monitoring committee, have changed... And it was possible, in 2008, in 2009, in 2010. What could be done? You could have done... I mean, the bureaucratic misfortune of small projects. I repeat, with the little ones. A year and a half, a year and an end to the investment. That's what I consider to be a shortcoming and an oversight. What's my point? To how it is now and in what direction It's all going. And I'm gonna say here we have... But first things first. 'Cause this whole thing needs to be introduced. On the other hand, the whole micro-enterprises procedure. It's a drama. In particular, as far as local action groups are concerned, there are up to 70% discards. There was a misunderstanding. Local groups said the Marshal's office was guilty. The Marshal's Office said it was the Ministry's fault. The Ministry said no, the marshals' offices are to blame. Well, it was an endless story. So not everything was beautiful, although the funds were used. But because of some shifts and actions taken. And this is where it ended well, though with Leader Not really. But these are irrelevant little things. And I'm gonna say, in general, it's over... and the whole thing is that Leader is misusing... Because those were the tools. But it still took great advantage of the opportunity, gave people a chance to build social capital and took advantage of it. But it's not exactly media. It's not exactly media that there's some kind of skylight built. So that Leader did his job because people did their job through the activities that they got the chance to do. I know, and I understand this bureaucracy... As regards the new programming period, this is an essential issue in the context of local fishing groups. I'll say it like this. If something can be a model for me to cut red tape, then the conclusions of local fishing groups are such a model for me. I have now begun to come to the ministry, why it was so, why, despite the fact that... this bureaucratic mite will be limited, first, through a system of small grants. Not a small project at the Marshal's Office, but... the Civil Initiative Fund will get the grant itself and settle it. It will be the responsibility of the faster and, I hope, efficient... Secondly, there is no third axis anymore, no intermediaries, etc. There's one conclusion. Small grants are one source of funding, and the other... At the moment we are at the final stage of preparing the proposal for the remaining activities that are being done, I can say simply, following a fishing proposal. We know, we know the problem, but I think it worked. Why? Competent employees... I was just talking to you today about why we did it now. After all, this has been worked on before, after all, this is the continuation of these works, not now all of them have been worked out... Because it wasn't the department's management that got involved, it was competent employees. Believe me, I can prove it. That is why these solutions have been implemented. We're perfecting them now. What's more, before running the final system It'll be in June. We will submit these proposals to informal consultations. Within Leader there is a selected team of local groups who will evaluate these proposals, assess the instructions and tell us what to change. Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. There's a chance that's gonna happen, there's a chance that we're gonna make it. Now we need some time, the confirmation will come next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u88	Senator Major, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u89	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to return to the issue of wild boars in the Polish countryside for a moment. Contrary to what some of the senators said, contrary to these opinions... From what the farmers in my district tell me, there is a war going on in the Polish countryside: a war between wild farmers and farmers. Unfortunately, in this war a Polish farmer loses, who is unable to protect his crops. Of course, no one is for killing wild boars, but here we are, Dear Lords, for reason. My question to the Minister is this: is the regulation on sanitary wildfire an incident, or will the Ministry of Agriculture systematically make sure that the wild population does not grow enough so that farmers do not tell me that we are living in a virtual state from now on? Because when farmers meet me, they say, "There is no state, because there is no one to protect us." Wild people go everywhere, into the corrals, and they come up to the houses. Minister, I ask if this is just the one time that there will be systematic surveillance of the wild population so that it does not increase and threaten the sowing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u90	I'm asking for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u91	Mr. Senator, the law has not been respected in this respect. In accordance with Polish law, supervision should be exercised by the Minister of the Environment during that term of office. There are so-called hunting plans, an indicator of 0.5 wild boar per km2 is adopted in Europe. Hunting plans should lead to this. In Poland it was neglected, two years ago the population grew very much. That's why this decision was necessary. There is no period during which this is to be achieved. This depends to a large extent on hunting circles. I would also like to say that the Hunting Law requires an amendment. We also need closer supervision of the Polish Łowiecki Union, or else... This is a country in the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u92	I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u93	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have been critical of the work of the Democratic Union coalition so far... The Freedom Union... Excuse me, Civic Platform... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and PSL. [[Voice from the room: Fast history of politics.]] Is it true that your success, your career, is caused by the fact that in connection with numerous election meetings you were moving around the so-called sketches, especially from your village Sadnik, through Warsaw... Secondly, did you notice that a few thousand sketches were created and repaired? Third, do you have an offer to top that success of yours? Second question, last one. I don't think that information is bad for you, but it's not bad at all. I regret to inform you that Polturf is no longer the organizer of Arabian Horse Day 2016. In the absence of any cooperation with the current stud management, which prevents the organisation of the event at the assumed level on 26 April 2016... How would you comment on the termination of this agreement and whether the Arabian horse is leaving?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u94	Let me tell you this: the art would be that for a trillion zlotys in the last term, for eight years of sovereign debt, despite the resources still from the previous perspective and the plan that the coalition prepared, but above all the Law and Justice, there was nothing left. It's done, Mr. Senator. Can you imagine not doing anything with so much money? This is the answer to the question about what the PO coalition did. PSL. You just spent resources inefficiently... [[I was asking about the schletinskies.]] Your actions consisted in the fact that dozens of Polish companies, instead of earning money on motorways, were wound up because they did not pay money. Don't talk about investments. And when it comes to schetinówki, unfortunately in our voivodeship I did not have the opportunity to ride these schetinówki, I drove on these roads that we built earlier, while there was no coalition of PO PSL. [[To the communes.]] [[Very few.]] No, the commune was before 20... About the second question... Sir, Polturf has been given notice, and we don't need her to carry out this task, which is Arabian Horse Days in August. It will be realized by another company, other people. I guarantee you that this event will certainly be much better and will bring more results for Polish horse breeding than what has been so far. [[I'll take the bet on the condition that you're riding the skateboards.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u95	Mr. Senator Rulewski, I didn't give you the floor. Senator Dowhan's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u96	Minister, I have a question for you. You often refer to the European Union here, you mention it in the context of measures, agriculture benefits greatly from the fact that we are in the European Union. My question concerns the flag. Is there a European Union flag in your ministry, or is it not? If she's not here, could you tell me why she's not here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u97	I have to check. [[Glasses at your disposal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u98	Senator Grabowski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u99	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have a question. I think it's more like Minister Zarudzki, basically two questions... First of all, I would like to say that I am shocked by the content of this report, in principle by the analysis of the agricultural policy carried out by the PO government. PSL. One of my questions will have something to do with this policy. I agree that this was a period of 8 years of inability, inefficiency, lack of interest in agriculture. That's the beginning. Now, here's the question. Minister, you spoke about the payout of 92%. appropriations for farmers from direct payments. I would like to know what share the funds paid are in advance. Because the IT system of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture did not work, it was one of the manifestations of this inability. What is the point of this question? I know that the county offices at the beginning of the campaign paid part of the funds in advance, de facto without checking the applications. That was the need. I also know that there is such awareness from the restructuring agencies that in some cases the funds were wrongly paid and recovery procedures may take place. [[I'm asking you for a question that lasts no more than a minute about today's meeting.]] That's the question of how much influence... And second question. In connection with the paralysis of activities, i.e. failure to perform a task, in connection with the inoperative IT system, did employees also have any effect, I don't know, legal or disciplinary? I'm referring specifically to DI's employees, because I think it was in the vertical of an IT vice president. And the third, last question. Mr. Jurgiel, maybe. I would like to get some more detailed information on the transformations of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture planned in connection with the end of the perspective of 2015.2020 direct payments. What's going to happen to this restructuring agency? Will she somehow be connected to another subject? There was media information that there would be a merger of individual entities. Thank you. And I'm sorry I extended it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u100	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u101	Mr. Senator, I am still surprised by the Members here. I don't think there's a PSL in the Senate. Who didn't prepare the system, and on December 2 they screamed that there were no withdrawals. When I took over the resort, 1 billion PLN 200,000 was secured for advance payments. According to the previous finance minister's letter, there was no more money. Well, thanks to Minister Shamasha, this amount has been increased by 1 billion 600 thousand and 2 billion 800 thousand have been paid. This accounts for around 18% All the resources. I didn't want to accuse anyone at that stage. We ordered control, i.e. The Prime Minister has ordered the Supreme Chamber of Control. This check is due to be completed by the end of June. And then it will be determined who made the decisions, what kind of people. That's the scope of control. And before that, I can only say, as Minister Zarudzki said, that there was no proper supervision by the Ministry and the Agency and this system was not implemented. However, we have taken extraordinary measures, we have introduced annexes and these funds will be paid. Payment for 2016 is also started; this procedure will be carried out. And the second question? [[I mean, what's going on with the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Will there be a reduction in employment due to the end of the 2015-2020 perspective of direct payments? And will this agency be linked to other entities?]] As of today, we are conducting work related to the liquidation of the Agricultural Market Agency. Part of the tasks will be transferred to the restructuring agency, part of the development, that's what we call it. For the Agricultural Property Agency, the staff will be adapted to this. Within, I think, two months, after analysis, you can tell what the state of employment will be; I don't want to shoot now. It is simply necessary to carry out the tasks properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u102	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Zając, Senator Czarnobaj and I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Augustine. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: It's over, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u103	I would like to thank you, if you can, and direct to yourself, and to all others such an appeal that we do not accuse ourselves if we do not know the facts, because it is really unpleasant for all parties. I took the liberty of referring here to the statements of two senators because they repeat false facts. It doesn't fit in the Senate either, even though we have freedom of speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u104	I'm opening a discussion. Minister, I would like to add that there will now be senators' speeches. After these speeches, you may refer to them, but there is no obligation, and maybe... [[Don't run away.]] ...Mr. Minister, be free now. Senator Łyczak was the first one to join the discussion. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Invited guests! Long-term speeches by ministers on the strategic branch of the economy, such as agriculture, have taken place. I stress: this is a strategic area, because, as we all know, the Polish industry in the essential part has been extinguished. So, all the more so, this strategic area of the economy, which is agriculture, needs to be taken care of and everything needs to be done to make it better. And the situation today is very difficult, as everyone knows. Of course, it's not the government's fault, it's the situation we inherited from those before us. I would like to briefly address the situation in the markets by adding a few sentences to what the ministers have told us. As far as the situation on the milk market is concerned, let me put it this way: it is the most slave production that man could have invented, so it requires a special understanding, and those who paralyze this production need help. It is not only that production itself is very difficult, it is for exceeding the so-called. milk producers have been punished with drastic penalties. Today we have a situation like this. This was also imposed by the embargo. That dairy... Among the senators there are people who until recently managed dairies... Warehouses in dairy houses are full, the market is limited and prices for milk have fallen below the cost-effectiveness limit, i.e. under 1 PLN, in some regions of the country already amount to 75 gr per litre. Because of this situation, many milk producers are wondering whether to eliminate the cowshed. If this were to happen, High Izbo, this would be the decision most severe for agriculture, that is, this strategic branch, because to rebuild the population, and this very good population, which we have right now, one of the best in Europe... Cows give more than 10,000 l of milk, so that here is a recognition. Everything must be done to make this situation better. As far as the pork market is concerned, the situation here is tragic. As the ministers said, this was done primarily by the sale of large Polish facilities for foreign capital. Maybe it wouldn't be the worst thing if it weren't for the fact that these establishments, which are in the hands of foreign capital, didn't receive pigs from Polish farmers. That's the way it is. in the meat establishments of the Sokołów, nearest to Warsaw, which was bought by the Danish representative. The material for slaughter goes to these plants, of course, only from Denmark and to make it even more tragic, these plants were sold with a Polish mark. And now this Danish pork, in every respect, and especially in terms of health benefits, which disappears from Polish meat, is packed in Polish packaging after processing, and this is how the Polish people are deceived, especially the inhabitants of the big cities to which these products are sent, which are really Danish products, in my opinion very disappearing, most delicately speaking, to Polish products. To make it even more funny, it's the famous Polish program "What a tune it is to this day is sponsored by these Danish bets, and it's said that they're Polish bets "Sokół". This is how the Polish people are deceived. Someone allowed Polish bets to be sold. I don't know what the rules say, but I hope we can reverse this situation. [[That's very good.]] Well, maybe it's for who. As far as the cereals market is concerned, the situation is as acceptable as it is today, although cereal prices are falling. I fear that which bringeth forth harvest. We all know that Ukraine mentioned here, which was the first to introduce an embargo on Polish meat, has just signed a free trade agreement with the Union and has the right to bring its grain into EU countries after harvest. It's not like they're gonna take it any further than the Lublin Voivodeship, and we all know Especially those who are on the subject. That Ukrainian wheat will not be more expensive than 450 PLN. And if Polish farmers receive such a price, they will be one step away from bankruptcy. Another market, another sugar market. In short, the EU reform of pseudoreform led to the liquidation of Polish sugar factories, the production of beet by Polish peasants was reduced, and the prices, which still a few years ago amounted to 220 PLN per tonne, were smiling. Today it is 120 PLN. Well, then, at this price, please produce. I live in Kujawy. There were beautiful sugar factories in Good, Brest, invested... [[In Kruszwica.]] ...but day by day, the decision came to take them out. And they weren't even left with the chimneys after those candy shops. Here's another thing. It is unforgivable what Minister Sawicki did, who signed the agreement on the principle of unequal direct payments to Polish farmers, expressed this by signing the conclusions of the Hungarian Presidency. Losing was the idea of compensation, which we are still struggling with today. Poland lost around 120 billion during the 2014-2020 period on this signature, at this agreement. The current government once again has taken over the Polish village with very difficult markets. That's what led to the stabilizing... This led to the fact that from the exporter, which was a large exporter, we became an importer, and today we are an importer, above all an importer of pork, as it was said here, and an importer of sugar, although until recently Poland was in third place when it comes to sugar production in the world. I will now move on to the EU programmes that have been discussed here a lot. Polish farmers, who have used these programmes very well so far, are in great trouble today. Trouble is, since production is no longer profitable, it's EU aid... And we all know that it's about getting money in half, the other half of it has to be called. your own dunk, and of course this own dunk is credit. So what I'm asking is, how are these farmers supposed to pay off these loans when they have to add to their production? And those programs that Minister Zarudzki was talking about, which are being proposed... I am afraid that we will not use a lot of money here, the Polish village will not use it because responsible Polish peasants, seeing what their situation is today, will be afraid to enter this help. To conclude, I would like to appeal to the ministers This is an appeal from Polish farmers who believe that only this method can heal this very difficult situation. The import of food which is currently flooding the Polish market, this bad food, much worse than the Polish food, the so-called food, is to be limited to the maximum. junk food. And the second thing that Polish farmers are asking for is the fight against the bureaucratic dictatorship of the European Union. Like I said yesterday at the committee meeting, the peasants are laughing that soon from behind those documents they have to file on a calf, this calf will not be seen. For such changes let us fight, this is the only way to heal this difficult situation in the countryside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u106	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We are talking about agriculture today, we are talking about food production, we are talking about its safety, we are talking about the population, we are talking about agricultural markets, we are talking about the drive off of wild boars, but, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of agriculture is much broader. The issue of agriculture is also a village and these are the specific people who live there. And this is also the quality of life of people in the country. I would like to give a few words in the context of the programme prepared by the Ministry and Minister Krzysztof Jurgel. This is, Dear State, a programme that I would call a groundbreaking programme in the context of the fact that most of the programmes which prepare individual ministries are of the nature of the resort programmes. So they stick very closely to the minister's tasks and do not go beyond that in a broader way. In this, Dear State, the document, that is, in this document that we have received, in the programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the years 2015 and 2019, we have, Dear State, the attention paid to tasks which are not recorded directly at the Minister of Agriculture, but the Ministry of Agriculture believes that they should be carried out and that this will certainly fulfil specific issues. And I am talking here, my dear fellow Members, about area IV, which concerns social policy. This social policy, ladies and gentlemen, is very broad. I'm not going to discuss it entirely. I will say, Dear State, about the social group, which, in my opinion and in the assessment of many researchers, is the worst and most difficult position in the country and requires the swiftest action by the government and all those who can help it. I'm talking, ladies and gentlemen, about seniors. Unfortunately, Poland is getting old. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have about 7 million residents of senior age, which is after 65th and 67th. A year of age, no matter how much we count it. In the next few decades, however, this figure will increase to almost 10 million, i.e. 10 million seniors, so to speak, to care, to develop, and in this number, Dear State, the number of so-called people will increase rapidly. Old-age, which means after 80 years of age. Dear people of 80 years of age, if in the city they have a certain, relatively wide, social infrastructure, but in the countryside they are in a much worse situation. Of course, all senior groups generally deal with 4 problems, because these are the most serious problems affecting the elderly. The first is feminisation. This is due to the fact that men unfortunately live on average 10 years less than women. Therefore, there is a process of singularization, because people living in marriages after 70. 80. They're single. Further, my dear country, a decline in health and a deteriorating financial situation. And this, Dear State, affects both the inhabitants of cities and the inhabitants of villages. Nevertheless, in cities, in urban areas, both social infrastructure and health infrastructure allow older people to improve their quality of life, at least a little. The villagers are deprived of this possibility. Therefore, the provisions in the programme relating to care services should be extended to include solutions which will motivate local authorities to implement these services in a realistic manner. Dear country, we have care services in the category of services provided by local authorities. These are tasks of their own, so here neither resources nor opportunities to support local governments, the government administration specifically does not exist. In the case of any control, when we meet a local government that does not provide care services at all, the local government responds that there is no need to do so. If someone says that there are no seniors in the 10,000-dollar rural community who would require care and assistance, even economic services, then I simply do not believe it in the world. However, as we learn from the statistics currently of the Ministry of the family, before work and social policy, some municipalities in Poland do not provide care services for their residents at all and unfortunately they are rural municipalities. There is no, Dear State, municipalities which do not provide such services, and rural communities, yes, do happen, and when we talk to representatives of these municipalities, they say that there is no need for such services. I don't believe it. I call on the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Family, a programme that will effectively build a system of care services, especially in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I ignore the fact that rural areas are almost completely deprived of day care facilities for the elderly. In part, the WIGOR programme helped local governments to build such daily social services houses, but senior clubs would be better suited to rural environments. If the Ministry had proposed a programme to finance senior clubs alongside daily social services houses, this would have been more beneficial. The next thing you know, ladies and gentlemen, are social services homes. At the moment there is no situation in Poland that we have a deficit of social assistance houses, i.e. places for people of senior age from rural areas, but we have a deficit of sheltered housing. Local governments in the world can't afford to build, to organize sheltered housing. Apartments protected together with social premises would be very desirable in rural environments. I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture, also in communication with the Ministry of the Family, will prepare a programme that will award, assist local and rural authorities, assist in building and creating sheltered housing. Dear people, in the case of older people who do not manage their daily duties and cannot function alone, the shelter that is located in their place of residence is the best form of care. Pulling an elderly person to a welfare home, which still despite the standards, despite what we do, remains a totalitarian unit, is unfavorable. Dear Member States, in this programme of the Minister of Agriculture, I see elements that can be expanded. Of course, we need resources, we need determination, but I am glad that the Ministry of Agriculture is paying attention to the area of social policy. This area, Dear State, is such a part of what the entire government and the whole government are doing as part of the construction of an old-fashioned Poland. And thank you very much for this work by the Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u108	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I do not know if you have noticed that in this discussion, and we are discussing over 4 hours, the least was the program that is included on these dozens of pages, in which the programme is certainly very important, necessary and even well thought out, at least as a concept. When it comes to the execution, we'll see. Why did this happen? That's why Minister Jurgiel promised me he'd be here, but he's not here. In his well-known political temperament, in his second sentence, he accused his predecessors of gross negligence, which he now has to repair. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is our misfortune, 25 years I've been in our parliament. That what's changing is always the same thing. It's bad for everyone. Today we should talk about whether the thesis that has been put there is well placed or whether these are fundamental matters - Senator Majer pointed out certain issues "Whether there will be resources for this, what means, where they will come from, how long we can do this, etc. It wasn't all about that. In conclusion, Minister Jurgiel addressed the senators in a slightly milder tone than before, so that they would not repeat any foolishness, clichés, untested information, etc. Well, I have to... My colleagues paid attention not to the Minister's teaching senators, but I'm not that sensitive. I have thawed over 25 years, and you can lecture me on the condition that he does it culturally and that I can then instruct him. Then there's balance. But that's not what's important here. The important thing is that senators draw their knowledge from various sources, among others. from the press, from various conversations, etc. Maybe it's stupid, maybe this information isn't 100% checked. But where are they supposed to ask these questions and get answers if not here. If it's stupid, then it has to be corrected. And this is the right forum. Now I would like to move on to the issue which has become the basis of those words which the Minister said, namely the issue of studs in Janów and Michałów. All right, let's see... Perhaps the Minister is right, perhaps in these studs things were really horrible, perhaps, as he said at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, theft was there. And maybe it worked decisively and rightly. We'll see what it looks like in time, after the results. Why did such distrust arise in relation to this decision? Because we are undoubtedly dealing with pearls of our economy or farming in the countryside, known all over the world, which also bring great splendor to Poland. And all of a sudden, you make that decision. She should be very well-founded right away. What was the situation? First of all, after this decision, we learned that the main reason was that Pianissima's mare had fallen and that, therefore, great losses had been made. That was the first piece of information. Then, when the noise began around it, the Minister pulled out, like a rabbit out of a hat, further arguments which he seemed to have never had before, but someone gradually brought them to him. Why, then, did he make this first decision? Then there were arguments that someone didn't pay the rent, etc., etc., and only at the end, recently, that there were checks of NIK, CBA, etc., etc., etc. And at the same time there was information that these checks did not show this, not this, that is, in short, the interpretation is far-fetched. So all I can say is that when you make a personnel decision to people and to institutions that, deserving or not, have universal respect, it has to be considered, well documented and presented so that the fly does not sit down. And it just wasn't. And now the Minister says, "Let's wait, let's see how it goes." I'd offer. Because this case will be drawn at some time and various arguments will be drawn, and it is not necessarily consistent with each other, so that the Minister would recommend that the dossier be prepared for these studs over the years to be provided and the financial, economic results to identify various types of shortcomings, etc., etc. So that in a year, two or three years, we can compare the data with this data. Because if it doesn't, this conflict will go on forever. Now I have to refer to certain numbers as well. I don't pretend here to be an expert on strict problems. agricultural, rather, I listen and learn from the Minister, from the senators. But at a time when numbers are at stake, which is the suspicious statistics that the Minister has told us about here, I'm sticking my ear out. Well, we've heard it here. That's what Senator Łyczak was particularly impressed with. The problems that Polish farmers face in various sectors. Problems affect Polish farmers, Polish miners, Polish traders, etc., etc. For years, and you have to solve them all the time, that's clear. The question is, is there progress, is there no progress? Because despite all these problems, there are also positive things. Labour productivity in Poland is increasing. What does it say is that it's growing? Poland is undoubtedly taking an ever higher place in the European Union's income hierarchy, and no one is questioning this, despite all these problems. So you can expose problems, even need to, just so they don't cover up the overall outcome. Because if you take everything that Senator Łyczak said here, you can actually say that agriculture should no longer exist. The prices are actually below cost, everyone adds to everything... Of what? Meanwhile, as we learn from the report itself, the parity, the ratio of agricultural income to urban income is little, but it has increased over 8 or 9 years... I don't know what time it is there... Over 10 years, it has increased and the growth rate of average income in the country has been quite high at that time. And even the crisis didn't stop it. Which means maybe it was a bad schedule, maybe not all of them benefited. That's for sure. But in general, there has been a clear improvement. As far as exports are concerned, because here were questions about exports, please, within... I have data for seven years, from 2007 to 2014. In 2007 there was exports of EUR 10 billion, in 2014. For EUR 21.3 billion, including the European Union, i.e. the demanding market in which we are currently competing with them, with Denmark, the Netherlands, Great Britain, France, Germany, etc., there were exports of 5.4 billion in 2007 and 2014. For 17 billion. It's over three times as much. Then what's it come from? I heard from the Minister here that, yes, this is export, but including tobacco... Okay, we can deduct tobacco, that's actually about 1.5 billion euros, right. Although this tobacco is also produced here, and it brings us some benefits, but fine, let's leave the tobacco. [[Time's up.]] If you give me another five minutes... [[I'm just letting you know.]] ...then I won't be back later... [[Well...]] Okay, I'm almost done. Let's leave this tobacco on the side. This is a 3-fold increase. But now we hear: well, yeah, but it's at draconically low prices, it's just farmers lowering those prices. But, ladies and gentlemen, they don't lower below the cost, because if they'd been below the cost for seven years, they wouldn't be there anymore. These are, of course, competitive prices, where we must fight for this market. But if the income in the country grew faster than in the city, it means they didn't pay for it. In this context, the policy of recent years I'm almost done. You can be critical, you have to be critical. I agree, the omissions were in different areas. I don't think any previous government was free of omissions. We must learn from this, but not in the tone in which Mr Jurgiel does it, unfortunately. I suggest you accept such a... At least that's what I do, my experience tells me. I used to be so aggressive, and for my political opponents, all I had was criticism, and now I'm a little milder. I have accepted the following principle: no government is as wise as it speaks of itself, and as stupid as its opponents say of it. I propose this principle, especially today, to accept the rulers, because they have the most to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u110	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Senator Borowski has taken a large part in the tone of my speech, because I would not like to refer to many aspects of strict agriculture, of which the senators here have been gracious to say as people who certainly know more about the details of this undertaking, this important area of the economy, which is agriculture. But I would like to make a few comments, both from this debate, from the discussions and from the speeches of the senators. I, of course, subscribe to what Senator Borowski said. The important thing is that this document is, because in a moment, in four years we'll probably get back to it and you'll be able to ask what's what, for example. On page 63, it has been completed. That's definitely an advantage. There is also the advantage that I think Senator Majer was talking about, if I'm not mistaken, that this is not a resort document, it is referring to a number of areas that concern rural life. Because living in the country isn't just about farmers. They are also Popegeer workers, who are a huge problem and for whom help needs to be found. These are also today people who move with their families to rural areas. But the problem is that today, in agriculture alone, fewer people are needed than 10, 20 or 30 years ago. It is therefore a good thing that this document is that it addresses a number of issues, but I would also like to make a few comments on this document. As for what Senator Łyczak said, namely that bureaucracy is something that kills not only Poland, but also Europe, I also subscribe to it. But, Senator, when the senator says that today farmers are afraid to go on all kinds of programs, I think... I don't know what they're afraid of. Well, you're in charge. Most of the Polish village voted for Law and Justice. I don't think there's anything to be afraid of you not paying off your credit card to those who voted for you. Therefore, please be bold to say that you are in power today, and you will solve all the problems that the senator has spoken about today. Right? It's easy, isn't it? What Minister Jurgiel was talking about today... I, too, seriously accept the Minister's schmucks if I say something unreasonable or unverified. Except that I would like to say that, in addition to certain elements that are facts, it is important, especially in politics as a minister or senator, to have the impression that is being made. Well, the impression made by Minister Jurgiel about horse studs is negative; it comes from everything that happens around it. Senator Borowski also presented the elements of why this is the opinion. And there is nothing to be offended, Minister, for critical remarks, because these are the words of those who will be critical, they will not pat you down, but they will talk about what is wrong in their assessment, we must analyse very strongly. 'Cause you're gonna have plenty of flatterers. Even after we've finished this debate, you'll see. Many flatterers will be invited to tell you that this was the best speech in the European Union about agriculture. The whole philosophy of thinking... Pay attention to what Minister Jurgiel said. When there is a problem with the stud, we say that we have established an Arabian horse breeding team, as if there hasn't been one so far. I understand that panacea is a team that will start working there and will suddenly develop real Polish rules, Polish regulations for working on Arabian horse breeding. Someone asked a water question... Yes, we have established the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. I'd like to tell you that there's a certain style... The country's name is Russia. Do you know what happens there at the beginning, when there's a harvest? This is where the plenum first gathers to determine what they will do, how they will collect and what actions they will take. Therefore, Yeah, I think so. The panacea for all kinds of actions is not the establishment of a team, a ministry that will solve all problems, because life is so dynamic that we need to correct... If we add to this what the Minister was talking about, what is going on here, that it is actually the return of the Ministry Poland, i.e. there is no trust and there is no connection of agricultural activities, with the Polish village, with rural areas, with Polish local governments, both municipal, district and voivodeship levels, there is only just the submission of all institutions of the Ministry of... We had this kind of Poland. She wasn't successful. And I don't think it's going to apply to them either, unfortunately, in the coming future. Now two more words about this document. As I said, the advantage is that this document is. But we're getting into the details... Such a document, a programming document which does not contain details of the sources of funding, is not a programme or strategy, but is a fatamorgan. Because we can have a lot of wishful thinking, but when we go to the finance website, it says that we're going to be funding from the state budget... That we will return to the transfer of 3% GDP on agriculture from the state budget. Local government units are also added, which do not yet know that they will finance the private sector and EU money. Of course, following the spending rule, introducing new things, new tasks, we also need to identify the exact source of funding, so it is not enough to write the state budget. For the sake of fairness and regularity, it should be pointed out from which source... And whether this source is at all, because when it comes to spending on activities which Law and Justice intends to take in Poland, I do not know whether such a source of funding will be found at all and whether these good slogans will otherwise be realized. Now two more words about this document. As I said in my questions, in the case of the first 60 pages, the unknown author actually points out all the time: and this is the fault of the predecessors, and this is... And all the time, everything that's about the bad situation... And about how bad the situation is in the Polish village, Marek Borowski said. This is not a problem-free place today, but these problems are somehow solved. It may not be enough in some areas, and we can agree with that, but in a large part they are being solved or there is an attempt to solve them. I may not know the exact situation in agriculture of south-eastern Poland, but I know agriculture in northern Poland, I know the situation in the countryside in this part of Poland and I want to say that in relation to what was 25 years ago or even 10 years ago, many problems remain For example, those related to the area and people who used to work on state-owned farms But many problems are solved. But if, as I have already quoted in the speech, in the first part, an analytical where good and bad sides should be mentioned, weak and strong, at the time of joining such a program, it is written that chaos in administration, nepotism and the transfer of positions for its own, changes in laws to make personnel changes, violations of constitution, etc., etc. After all, this is the spirit of the first half of the Law and Justice, so I suspect that this commentary was written on the basis of what we are dealing with in the first half of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, in this document the authors say that food security of Poland is at stake and there is a reason why it was threatened. Senator Borowski showed it. After all, Poland is not the country in which the threat of food security has been introduced, anything to say about it, any mistakes that govern it, especially in recent years, have been made in the field of agriculture. These are things... Someone's been ordered to write a bunch of smearing clichés or slanderous predecessors from the years of the government of the P.O. PSL did this, and brought out all the problems, added his own thoughts and came up with these things... It says, for example, that inflation is something that destroys agriculture, and in a moment it is written: but it also destroys and deflicts. Of course, some macroeconomic or economic elements also concern agriculture, and will concern, Mr Senator, there will be problems with the price, with the sale, but for this there are institutions of the Polish state to implement these measures concerning price stability. But this document is full of contradictions. Mr Majer said that it would be worthwhile to deal not only with agriculture, prices, cost-effectiveness, but also with various social problems in the Polish countryside or in Polish non-urban areas, let's call it that in general. And if we read in this document, ladies and gentlemen, on page 124, that the implementation of active social policy will take place through the development of social inclusion centres, social inclusion clubs, social cooperatives, etc., etc... [[Time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. These are slogans and wishful thinking. It is therefore a pity that we have not heard information about instruments that would confirm how these noble slogans that are contained in this programme will be implemented. And what I'm trying to say is that with curiosity, we'll be back in two, three years. We're keeping this document as a souvenir. To hear and see how the individual elements of this programme have been and are being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u112	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I listened to Senator Józef Łyczak's first speech, and I can say that I would not like to see sugar factories being liquidated, so that other plants that once existed and were the glory of our industry, our brand, but unfortunately free trade, free economy and competition, and above all opening up to other markets, would force such changes, not other changes. Perhaps from the beginning the policy that has been pursued in such a way and not in any other way has been bad, but today the subject is behind us. It's not like anyone's forbidden to recreate it, to produce it on the basis of things that are available to the public. I am also surprised that you are attacking one of the Polish companies, with which, which I reserve immediately, I have no links. I've opened a website for myself on the Internet, and you're also saying that this company is sponsoring a TV show. And praise her for sponsoring the show, notabene on public television. In a moment, as it goes on, and television will have an audience of less than 10%. , may give up sponsoring the program on TVP and do so at the commercial station. The Falcons employ a lot of people, 7 establishments, not just pork but all branches in meat production. It has the required certificates, exports to the United States, Russia, Korea, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Japan, United Arab Emirates. I think this is a good business card for the bet. I don't know what the structure is, I don't know if the Danes have 100%. Or maybe half of it, or maybe half of it is. But, Senator, the other way is... Today, a Polish farmer can buy a factory in Denmark, drive Polish pork to Denmark and distribute it there by labeling Danish. I think there's more Polish than Danish pork or beef; I wouldn't want to be wrong here. As regards the Minister's speech, it is true that thanks are due, because it is rare that the representatives of the Ministry, the entire staff, sits with us for so many hours, but I would like to stress that I do not like this policy which is currently being conducted, which is connected, for example, with this media noise around the studs, which has already been said a lot. This certainly does not bring us anything good in Poland or abroad. I don't like the fact that instead of caring about farmers, the ministry is looking for cases that happened in the previous coalition, and blaming every other word of guilt on the previous government. That's not how you do it. Everyone who comes to work wants to be successful, and those successes were, Mr. Marshal Borowski spoke of them. In 2007, export amounts amounted to 5 billion with a hook, and a year ago more than three times... That's a sign of something. I wish that the level of exports will continue to grow or at least remain at the same level, because in fact the role work is very hard, very demanding, responsible. But it is not as bad as it was presented today that the Polish farmer is deprived of all kinds of tools. Today, farms look very modern, farmers are educated, they receive aid not only from the state, but mainly from the European Union, they have open markets, they are not limited only to our market, because they can export their products. And since these products are tasty, we had the opportunity to find out thanks to the courtesy of colleagues from Podkarpacie. I hope they were in 100% Polish, but even if they were not Polish, they were also tasty. It's worth taking care of. I don't like what's going on with animals. 40,000 gunshots... It's a powerful number. I don't know if these animals are going to be sorted out in any particular way, because it's probably hard to sense so far which one is sick and which one is not sick, or are not sick at all, since we haven't talked about these diseases yet. Skillfully, the farmers were blocked by sales, land trafficking, even in the case of their closest relatives. These are not the advantages with which the Ministry came today to boast about its politics. Not to mention renewable energy. Just a few months ago, there was a lot of noise about windmills, for example, to disappear while they arrive elsewhere. I didn't hear anything about taxes today, and I'd like to. I didn't hear anything today about the KRUS, which is criticized by many. I believe that this system should be aligned, because the Polish farmer is also an entrepreneur and there is no difference here. Perhaps farmers are a weaker group, because these subsidies, which are for agriculture, are not the same as for mining, for example. But it's the miners who go out on the streets, often armed, and forcefully for their own... And they scream loudly about their rights. The farmers did a few protests, blocked a few roads, but they were more peaceful demonstrations. We talked a lot about cigarettes, which are an important branch of production, industry in Poland. It is very good that modern plants have been set up as one of the first in Eastern Europe to produce cigarettes for European markets. Of course, excise duty is paid where these cigarettes are sold and is applied according to the design of the country to which they are exported. But I'd focus more on what we talked about here, I mean. in order to help the Polish tobacco industry by blocking left tobacco, left cigarettes, which get to Poland, especially across the eastern border. Surely, the influence would then be much greater. And our tobacco, from our crops, is also tasty. Although the minister made a mistake here because he was talking about different types of cigarettes, and there were also mentioned tobaccos that do not grow here. But it was just a technical mistake. I hope that at the upcoming meeting, the agricultural committee and the finance committee will change the nonsense provision that refers to the tearing of parcels and the putting on tobacco products of the legalization band, which are important one day and the other day are no longer important, even though excise duty and everything has been paid for and is okay. And then these poor people, especially in small towns or villages... And there's been a lot of cases like this. I know them because I work in the industry. That the customs office found two or three small packages of cigarettes and made a racket of it. And then it's mandatory to go to court. Well, that's reprehensible. If something like this doesn't happen when it comes to alcohol products, why does it happen when it comes to tobacco products? It's just an extra job that doesn't make any extra profits or boast about industry. I only wish that Polish farmers had the opportunity they had in recent years, so that exports would not decrease, that domestic production would grow, that milk, Mr. Senator, would not cost 75 gr, just, let's say, 1.5 zł. That's what I wish, because this is our common cause, without political divisions. Because agricultural production and our own products, which are tasty, good and healthy, should be a priority for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u114	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Senator Łyczak, I would like to refer to those words outside the protocol. I think, dear people, that it is important to consider in the discussion, with us, in the Senate, such a question when something may be called a Polish product and when it is not. In view of today's opening of our exhibition of regional products, I would like to point out that these products are of value because they come from this district, from these areas. It means they grew up there, they were bred there. So if we produce meat from meat that is imported, and we call it Polish products, we really need to think deeply about whether this should be the case and whether someone is cheating someone here. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must refer to the attacks on my statement here. I'll start by saying, backwards, from what the last speaker said, Mr. Senator, about Sokolov. As I would say: if you had made such a statement about the "Sokołów," which destroys the Polish market, about the fact that Polish farmers have in the situation they are now in, buying companies in Denmark, at a meeting with farmers, they would have taken you out on wheelbarrows and lynched you. That would be the answer of Polish farmers. If you don't believe me, I invite you to Kujawy for a meeting. Come on in. I'm a hunter, too, and I'll stand by and protect you eventually. The reaction of Polish, real farmers would be exactly what I said. I will now respond to Senator Borowski's suggestion that I have so disastrously presented the situation in the country. Of course, I'm maintaining it. She, with regard to the main production directions, namely pork, milk and beets, those directions from which Polish farmers mainly profit... And it's dramatic. Polish farmers are very critical of this, blamed for it by the team that gave us power, and are increasingly looking forward to positive changes. That's how I'd deal with it. As for the programmes, the EU programmes, why farmers are afraid of them, I will say yes. I'm asking if you had, like I said, this lovely cowshed to make you love milking cows and you'd get 75 grams of milk for a liter of milk... [[40 gr.]] ...and you'd be talking to the principal, the director of the dairy house, because these are the presidents who would tell you that he's full of warehouses and that within three or four months, maybe six months, the situation isn't gonna get any better, because no one's gonna find a miraculous outlet, so you'd be afraid to take a serious loan. All the more so because we see what's happening in the Union. The Union is falling apart as far as agricultural matters are concerned. The big ones are trying their own ways to get to the ones we have the embargo on, aren't they? We know who I mean. That is why I am not surprised that in this situation they are in, until radical changes occur, they will be afraid to use these programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u116	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, when it comes to Polish agriculture, in the transition period we have entered a difficult situation and we are on our way. There were mistakes on this road, but everyone tried to add their bricks. For those words which fell here from the rulers who said that this and this worked out, thank you very much, because this is the right attitude. Not everything could have worked out, not everything worked out, but it's no reason to use too harsh words and prepare a book of neglect, because it's not a book of negligence, it's a homework to do. All I'm surprised about is knowing about these problems. You are sitting here, Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, who has pointed to them once over these eight years only now, in most cases, you are thinking about what to do. How many years did it take to prepare for this? And when you're already working on solving some important problems, instead of solving them to the end, eliminating them, it turns out you're having new ones. Maybe it's bad luck, maybe it's media malice, but this resort is famous in Poland for all the projects it proposes, and they were mentioned here. So with all my kindness, I would like to talk about just a few things that we could on, we should have heard completely clear information, specifics, and which we have not seen here. It is not enough to say, to postulate that Polish farmers receive the same subsidies as those in the West. You have to be able to tell how you want to figure it out. Is this how we will irritate the situation with the European Union on every possible episode? Is this the path you are setting? I think it's going to be counterproductive. One at a time. It is true that some agricultural schools have once been taken over, but the truth is that not all of them have fallen today. So? Are you suggesting a second move? We didn't hear that. What's the situation in the country? How should she be able to give comparable, satisfying living conditions? Far from it. We would therefore like to hear how these rural programmes will contribute to better access to daycare, kindergartens. How are you gonna defend this unfortunate idea of eliminating the middle school they were supposed to give and give the village much better educational opportunities to children? The farm resort should be the first to oppose it. Milk prices were mentioned here, sugar prices could be said for a number of reasons. Preferences for small and medium-sized enterprises to start new businesses where there is no work in agriculture. There was a lot of that here, the Minister spoke about it. We see that you are aware of this problem. How it didn't go once. But if we were to answer today, what would be done to make it go... Well, we didn't hear that. Of course, I remember our turbulent discussion about the amount of insurance payments for natural disasters. Then Mr President will confirm it. You said that even the 50% It's not gonna be enough that there's gotta be more. The Minister says something about mutual insurance companies. But that's not the idea you've been presenting. You said you'd pay more. It's not there. Finally, I would like to say what is always, as you know, interesting to me: the situation of the elderly. Poland's village is getting very old and needs solutions in the field of care. They must be country-specific, because these people are very far apart, scattered, often deprived of contact with the families that left. This is also a question of pensions. No, the point is not to align ZUS with KRUS, unless on one condition, which you will always admit, here I emphasized: that agricultural pensions will be like workers' pensions, then it would be a fair proposition. Of course, it would have to be expensive, but it's worth waiting for such an offer. If we're gonna pay the same price, I hope we get the same price. There's a lot of problems. I'd like to wish the ministry as much of this as possible. And I would like to wish for the successors not to make a list of reproaches, not to make a list of neglects, but to make a list of tasks that need to be done. Happy birthday. Please tell Minister Jurgel to thank him for being among us so long that he takes the Senate very seriously. Nor do you take these words as a special reproach, but rather as an incentive to focus on tasks, actions, not accusations, because it does not bring anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u118	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, Minister Jurgiel left for a while. He said maybe he'll come back. But the Deputy Minister is in the Chamber, so I must thank you for the fact that it is on the initiative of Minister of Agriculture Krzysztof Jurgiel that this meeting is taking place today. After all, as we spoke to the Minister, he asked us to make such a request. Mr Marshal, in line with our proposals and the Minister's request, has introduced this item to today's proceedings. I thank the Minister for having the courage to face the problems in the difficult situation that our agriculture is facing today, although some say that it is great, well, my speakers have spoken here with different voices. It must be made clear, ladies and gentlemen: the situation for Polish farmers is very difficult, especially as my colleagues said, at low prices of milk, live wheat. And you can list various other markets, fruit market imbalances, because once they're apples, once they're other fruit. There are problems, and you have to say that you do. After all, I am in the village with farmers and they wait when it improves. We are at various international conferences, in different places and discuss whether the situation of European agriculture will improve or not. I was just in Brussels for two days, where we discussed this. This light is not yet visible, that it will suddenly improve, and there are no solutions, and the European Union does not provide solutions that offer an opportunity to improve this situation. The Commissioner for Agriculture did not take part in our Parliament long ago with the Sejm Committee and the Senate Commission in the meeting. I held this meeting and we asked the Commissioner to take action not only towards Polish but also EU farmers. He committed himself to taking action. What actions did he take? Well, he said he wouldn't raise the intervention prices, because farmers would continue to produce, and farmers would have to be forced to stop producing. Such was the literal statement by the Commissioner here in Poland that if he raises intervention prices, they will continue to produce, he says: we will not raise prices, let them eliminate... That is, the destruction of European agriculture, so to speak, by the mouth of the current Commissioner for Agriculture. And it fell today... not so long ago here in Parliament. The measures to be taken, i.e. the third tranche for intervention on the milk market... What kind of action did he take? The Minister should say. Well, the next tranche went not at prices, but at prices in so-called. tender, offer contest, which means that even lower prices will apply, because everyone will want to push, because they will be full warehouses, there will be no place to sell it. So today there is no European Union policy that would provide solutions not only to Polish farmers but also to others, farmers and French and German. I mean, those guys have the same grudge against the government. We can now tell the European Commission, which decides on the common agricultural policy... We are arguing internally, but these problems are not just about that government or that government, these are problems of European agriculture, this is a ticking problem, a time bomb that is about to fall... we will sign the TTIP, a transatlantic agreement between the European Union and the United States. This is a problem that we raise very strongly, because globalisation is progressing incredibly. We're losing to small farming, small markets on the global market. The question is: is Europe supposed to become a global market? European farmers say no. We want a family farm, small farms, there are jobs, and here is a huge amount of work, which is in small businesses, in cooperatives, in all other... And that's where you have to keep your europeanness, and you have to collide with it. I must convey my thanks to the Minister here because, indeed, this programme you have submitted is a programme that has been discussed earlier by the Law and Justice. Of course, everything can't be done at once. We don't expect the Minister to do all the things right away. We said we had to amend the Real Estate Act, and I'm saying it's name all the time, because it's a different name. She's been corrected. One likes it, the other doesn't like it, but every solution has been adopted at some point. One can say that it is necessary to raise... the possibility of financing farmers... the funding of farmers from so-called. national support mechanisms. The previous coalition actually cut these mechanisms of national support, looking for savings in the budget, and it was visible, and that's what we've been saying for eight years, how it cuts. At the moment, in the case of fuel subsidies, this is raised and not reduced, i.e. the result, is an improvement even in this small instrument. You say you don't do anything about insurance. I know the concept that the Minister has already said publicly that it is returning to the so-called system. a package solution so that there are several risks to be higher subsidies. And the minister announced what it would be like for the following year, that it would be more than 1.5... perhaps almost 1.7 billion as part of the target grants that will be awarded in the following years. I've heard it, that's what the minister's been talking about several times in the media. So I see that there are solutions that tell you that you can improve the insurance system and I know this announcement. I don't know why the senators here say there's nothing to be done about insurance when action is taken. One could say that we were criticizing what a colleague mentioned here, that this is not enough. Why did I criticize it at the time that it wasn't enough? Because we've removed the so-called mechanism. The minimum fuse that was before. I was afraid... We raised it to 65%, changing this fuse, figuring it couldn't be less. And before that, it was 40%. We were talking about behavior... I asked the Minister a question about seed subsidies. There is such an algorithm that the entire pool is automatically divided and farmers have lower subsidies. See how the payment algorithm has been established in the case of so-called. protein crops. Let me remind you, what we talked about here not so long ago, that farmers expected to get the right amount in euros, because it was meant to be, and they got it in zlotys, which is four times less. They were outraged, and they asked, "What do you mean? We assumed that that's what the protein plant grant was going to be, and we got less. Why? Because this algorithm has been applied. And so it is all the time, we farmers are not sure that the surcharge will be as much as it was supposed to be or less, because more applications have been submitted. I have pointed out that the Minister has already had to look for funds, because with such an algorithm farmers will not get the amount they had in previous years. We are talking about the solutions that need to be taken today, and this was mentioned in this discussion. I think that most of us mean the current situation in the market for cattle, cereals, milk. We are all trying to find solutions to problems that occur not only in Poland These are European, global problems. They're devastating. Colleagues, Senators, sometimes you say that the actions that this government is taking... You say he won't make it, he doesn't do it, he doesn't do it. I don't agree with that at all. I'll say one thing: don't persuade me, Mr. Senator, that the farmers are weakly protesting, and the miners are better at protesting, so that they can go anywhere they go peacefully... I'm not hiding that I've been in this green town almost every day for four months. It's been four months of hard waiting. It wasn't some kind of peaceful manifestation when you go out on the streets... Yes, they were, but they were different. So don't tell me, don't provoke us farmers to start protesting again, because that's not the point. This government wants to talk, accepted demands. As the Minister said here, more than a thousand proposals have to be implemented. And we wait. And if you're talking about these bands and stuff... Ladies and gentlemen, I remember PSL always telling me this: don't strike, just sit down and negotiate with us; farm school, you'll have money and you won't have to protest. But it wasn't about sitting down and not doing anything. It's about solving problems. Today, the Minister is also setting up teams, but I hope that these teams, made up of completely different representatives than before, will want to implement our demands, which we have repeatedly repeated over these eight years. As chairman of the trade union, I expect the Minister of Agriculture to implement what he had previously announced. And I wish him success, I wish him success, because this is an action for the Polish farmer, the Polish village and our homeland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u120	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on the senators' speeches in the discussion? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Very briefly. Thank you very much for all the votes, thank you very much for this discussion, for this debate. The Minister asked me to give this to you. As already indicated, on our part, the Ministry's management was asking for such a debate to take place. All the cases that have been brought forward... We listened carefully to all the voices. As we have announced before, we will act and follow the conclusions that follow. This is the first case. Second thing. I would like to refer here to Senator Czarnobaj's statement and to say that I very much thank you for an in-depth analysis of the programme, and I understand that he was worth it, since the senator spent his time analyzing him. Of course, we are at our disposal and we will try to present what we have done. What I lacked... If that criticism that fell on us from some of the ladies and senators... I lacked the defense of what was positive. None of us are saying that everything that has been so far has been wrong, but as presenting certain things, diagnosing reality, we are looking for things that are good, to make things even better. If we call something wrong, we do it to find out what we need to do to reduce or eliminate the problem. This procedure is very clear because we listen to people. And according to our analysis... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and meetings with people, with the team... The program that was created maybe is imperfect, maybe it's very extensive, but it's people who have been making demands, so we're going to implement them. For my part, I would like to declare that we have worked hard in the Ministry of Agriculture for the last five months. Our work will continue consistently and we will try to account for the software elements that have been written. This programme does not only concern our department, but, as the senator has already been polite to mention, it also concerns the social economy and various factors, including local authorities, including cohesion policy. We invite you to cooperate, invite you to implement our program, and in a few years, when we can compare, assess what was good and what was bad, we will be able to improve it in a programme way. As far as the specific elements presented are concerned, we see problems concerning the so-called silver economy, we see the problem of depopulation for young people, we see the problems of agricultural markets, we see the issues of negotiations with the Union. Everything in such a debate will not be presented, because not everything is... As extensive as agriculture and rural areas, which cover 94% The area of our country... Once again, I thank the Senators of Law and Justice for their support so far, for their creative work in implementing our programme, and I invite those who are not convinced to cooperate. We are open and hope for constructive support. Thank you so much for all your comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u122	Thank you, Minister. Before we go to point two, I'd like to inform you that the planned break from 8:00 p.m.... The request for an adjournment has been withdrawn, so we will be sitting at least until 9 p.m. We proceed to the second agenda: the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. The text of the Act is contained in print No 143 and the committee's report In print No 143 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Scientific, Education and Sports Commission of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on 20 April considered the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. The Commission has entrusted me with the obligation to report, as I am doing here. I will try to do this as best as I can, and I will only express my personal views if I have presented them earlier at the committee meeting; if I do not, I will try to mark it. I would like to inform you kindly that the Sejm considered the bill as a parliamentary project. The person authorised to represent the applicants was Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, who was the initiator or important spiritus movens of this law. I'd also like to inform you 'Cause it's an important circumstance. On 13 April this year, the Sejm adopted this law in a vote, the result of which was quite unambiguous: 405 Members were in favour, 7 against, 9 abstained. I might add that there were no Members of the Law and Justice and neither the Platform nor the Kukiz Club15 among those who opposed this law. Turning to the substantive discussion of the content of this law, it should be said that the Academy im. Jakub from Paradyża in Gorzów Wielkopolski will be established on the basis of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski. At the same time, you should... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, am I interrupting? [[I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much. Art. 3 of the Law on Higher Education of 2005 provides that a university may be called academy if it has at least two doctoral powers. And this condition in the case of the Academy in Gorzów Wielkopolski created by the Act is not fulfilled, but in the article. 7 of this law has been given a period of 3 years to adjust the number of allowances held. And here are two dilemmas. The first is whether the lack of these powers is not a circumstance which hinders the adoption of this law. And the second, more general: should state higher vocational schools aspire to becoming dorms. Of course, opinions on this matter are divided. This discussion is part of a broader discussion on whether we have too many universities and too many students in Poland. They're different about that, too. But we need to take into account the fact that we have public and private education and that it is unevenly distributed across our country. I believe that every form of intellectual development is important, only care must be taken to ensure that the diplomas that are issued, well, are honest diplomas, that the education that students receive in these schools is adequate to what is written on the diploma. I have often said here that we are now at a very important stage in civilization development, building an information society and a knowledge-based economy where education is very important. There are, of course, weak universities, critically assessed, but this should only make it possible for the grades to always be individualised. The question is whether state higher education schools should become dorms. I am of the opinion that the definitions contained in Article. 3 Higher Education Laws should be rather an indication of a certain dynamic in this area, for monitoring the condition of universities Not only the academy or higher vocational schools, but also universities and so-called. adjective universities To really mobilise the movement in this area to develop, to maintain the level. All the more so, as we look at the top of the line, these top state vocational schools... I think you can have a dilemma: whether you're better off being the best PFA or one of the weaker academy. Yeah, but that's a decision everyone makes on their own. Of course, the issue of the Academy in Gorzów Wielkopolski is multi-critical, and I will talk about it. Each case is of course different. It should be noted that state higher vocational schools play a very important role. First of all, there are close to many communities far away from large academic centres, training takes place with a large share of practical education, so that these values are undoubtedly. It is certainly not that all state higher vocational schools have the ambition to become dorms. You can say that there will probably be 2, 3 cases, such as schools in Kalisz, which is number one on the list of PWSZ, or at least schools in Tarnów, which has a 200-year-old tradition of higher education. High in the ranking are also schools in Biała Podlaskia, Legnica, Leszno. I'm saying this to draw a broader perspective. I watched published rankings and counted 30 state higher vocational schools. I know there's probably been a few more in the past. It should be noted that the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski, which we are talking about here, took sixth place in the ranking in 2015. The year before that was the eighth place, and a little bit further before that. So it is clear that the dynamics of development of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów are high. We would also need to talk about the potential of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski. He currently teaches 14 courses in first degree studies That's a big number. and in 2 directions at level two. It operates in the departmental structure, has 4 departments: Department of Administration and National Security, Faculty of Economics, Faculty of Humanities, Technical Department. An important element of this university's strength is staff. Since we know from the media that these universities often employ academic teachers on the second degree, I'll give you the information from the rector that about 90% employees, academic teachers work on the first period. In this group there are 25 ordinary and extraordinary professors, 87 doctors and 50 masters. At the same time, it should be noted that 5 professors and more than 40 doctors were promoted to these degrees as first-time employees of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski. It is also worth emphasising that this scientific activity is undertaken in various forms, but the important information is that 167 scientific conferences were held in 2008 and 2015 - i.e. more than 20 per year. This is, however, an upbuilding circumstance. It should also be noted that in 2016 2 applications were submitted for the possibility of conducting second degree studies: in terms of national security and tourism and recreation. That's... Oh, students. This, of course, is very important. The number of students for the first day of the summer semester of this academic year is 2 000 775 people. Very, so to speak, the teaching infrastructure is expanded: there are teaching buildings, library, sports hall, student's house, social base. It's all important. It must also be said that... I must say that I have allowed myself to quote these detailed results of the vote in the Sejm, because they indicate how important this decision is. The applicants claim that this is the only voivodship city without academy and university. Here, of course, we need to add a comment that in Poland there are 2 such voivodships, in which there are two cities which are the seat of the authorities, i.e. the Marshal of the voivodship and the voivodship. This is the voivodship that we are talking about: in Gorzów there is voivodeship and in Zielona Góra there is a marshal. It's an important place with a lot of needs, a lot of potential. The authors of the proposal claim that Gorzów is a 125-thousand-year-old town, 758 years old as a city. I already told you about the headquarters of the voivodship authorities. Sam Gorzów along with the surrounding districts is 40% residents of Lubuskie voivodship, about 400,000 people. Of course, it must also be said that academic centers are located within 100 to 250 km, especially in Poznań, Szczecin, Wrocław. Well, Green Mountain should be replaced here, too. So that we take into account a certain geopolitical situation, a favourable geographical location on the Polish-German border in the centre of the Pro Europa Viadrina Euroregion, etc. etc. This could, of course, be extended, talk about opening up labour markets, etc. All of this makes this decision seem to be justified. This potential, which I was talking about, the present needs, and at the same time the fact that it is given a period of 3 years to fulfil this requirement, all this caused that the Committee on Science, Education and Sports of the Senate of the Republic of Poland supported this resolution in the vote, only made 4 amendments to it. The 7 senators voted in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. Amendments are important, necessary. Amendment 1 improves the incorrect use of the word "student" to those who have been admitted to college and who are not yet students because they have not taken a vow and have not fulfilled other obligations. Therefore, we replace the words of her students with those adopted for the first year of her studies at the Academy. Amendment No 2 amends the common term used parametric assessment to the words used in our law comprehensive assessment of the quality of scientific or research and development activities of scientific units. Amendment 3 amends the wording of the provision suggesting that the missing powers are to be supplemented by all the basic organisational units of the academy, according to which the academy is to supplement those powers. Admittedly, reading the current article. 7 together with Article. The 3th Higher Education Act would give us the opportunity to see that this is about the whole academy, not about departments, but the literal clarification of the other 2 amendments gives clarity to these concepts. I Amendment 4, to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6. It reads: The first term of office of the Academy bodies lasts until 31 August of the year following the academic year in which the Academy was established. Second sentence: The second term of office of single and collegial bodies lasts until 31 August 2020. This amendment harmonises concepts by introducing the definition of single and collegial bodies in both opinions. In conclusion, on behalf of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I am asking the High Senate to adopt this law with these 4 amendments. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u124	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I see you want to ask Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. As you said in your report, the committee noticed that unfortunately the academy does not yet meet all the requirements necessary to use the title "Academy." Did you therefore consider at the committee meeting, or did you not persuade the university authorities and applicants at all to wait these three years? Once they have fulfilled all these conditions in order to be able to use this title without any restrictions, they would have greater satisfaction. Because I am afraid of this situation: it may turn out that today we will decide that this university has changed its name, has become a dorm and has 3 years to meet the requirements that it should fulfil according to the law, but do not give God This will prove impossible and the condition will not be met. And then what? All titles will be taken from universities, stamps thrown into the basket, stamps used for 3 years, thrown away, etc.? There's been a lot of costs, and it'll be like nothing happened. Wouldn't it be better to really accept this title with great joy and satisfaction when you have a right to it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We talked about this lack, but the considerations to persuade the rector or the applicants were not taken. I'll tell you why. Indeed, both the invited and present at the meeting of the Rector of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów, as well as Senator Zając, who did not say this for the first time, pointed out that the functioning of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów as a State Higher Vocational School significantly impedes the investigation to this state, hinders and restricts it. Of course, we can discuss the importance of these difficulties, we can have such discussions, even outside the committee meeting and in other circumstances I had the opportunity to do so, but we thought that the dynamics of development, the state of present and the circumstances of some of them, I said, presented them here much more, caused us to ask to accept it in the vote; it was 7 for, no one was against. There are other circumstances I'd like to discuss. In this Chamber in March 2010, we considered a similar matter, namely the creation of the Academy of Art in Szczecin. There was a similar situation, but only on appearance. I mean, it looked like the potential of the academy, which was created at the time, was drastically smaller, the development dynamics were incomparably lower, and yet the decision was made. I have just part of the parliamentary transcript in front of me from this sitting, and I can say that the vote was similar to that in this case. Therefore, I believe in the wisdom of numerous ladies and gentlemen of Members who, knowing the reality of both the Law on Higher Education, I am talking about the article. 3 and certain territorial requirements, but such a law was passed and respected for all these circumstances As a committee, that's the decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u128	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, one more question...]] You want to ask, don't you? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u129	Minister, I also asked what would happen if the academy failed to meet the requirements in these 3 years. Will we then go back to what it is today?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u130	I will say this: at the committee's meeting we did not consider such a scenario, but I must say that in the final provisions of the 2005 Act it is written what date universities should arrange their names and then deal with these matters by the Ministry of Public Affairs and ask for appropriate proposals to Parliament. I think in this case, in some sense, the circumstances mentioned at the committee meeting were to assure the rector that the dynamics of development are so great... There's more to it than that. Senator Seweryński well recalled what we talked about at the committee meeting. He clearly pointed out that the state of the university staff is so large that these powers could be achieved right now. The problem is that these independent scientists or academics are separated between 14 different directions. We only need two clearances. So if we focus on four directions or four areas, these powers could already be granted today. That's why she was here. such a fact, the justification why the university chose this direction of development, not through greater concentration and obtaining these powers today. All I have to say is that the Rector assured me that these three years with excess... I mean, your rector even quoted specific dates that in principle 12 and 18 months this is the time in which they expect to obtain appropriate powers, and 3 years is a safe, excessive time resulting from procedural prevention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u131	Thank you very much, Professor. I'd like to inform the senators... [[There are still questions.]] I know, Mr. Senator. I will give you the floor in a moment and you will continue to ask questions. [[I'm sorry.]] [[That's information.]] I would just like to inform you that our debate is being listened to: a representative of the Ministry of Higher Education, Mr Aleksander Bobko, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska As an envoy from the land of Gorzow, I understand. And representatives of the authorities of the State Higher Vocational School in Gorzów Wielkopolski headed by Rector Elżbieta Skorupska-Raczyńska. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We're back to asking questions. Now you're asking Senator Robert Dowhan a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur. If he can't answer, of course I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Does the university today meet the conditions of higher education law to become an academy or does it not? I'd ask for a precise answer, because I've heard a lot of things. Second question. Were there any studies carried out, or will the number of students after the school has turned into an academy increase? And if it does, what areas will the students come to Gorzow from? My third question is about funds. We are talking about more grants and development funds. I would like to know what these grants and funds were now, and what will they be in the future and, above all, are they already secured in the relevant offices from which they will be transferred? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u133	Thank you very much. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u134	As far as the first question is concerned, I've already made a pretty extensive statement here, so I won't repeat it. As far as the second issue is concerned, namely whether the number of students will increase and what areas they will be from, it is difficult to say because the number of students is really related to the courses of study. I told you there were 14 of them, 2 of them were second degree, and another 2 of them were applied to the ministry. Rather, we are talking about the important prestige of the university and that it will be able to conduct research in a way that, so to speak, is more legitimate. We know that the role of universities in the development of the place where it operates, you can say, the entire sub-region or region is huge. It is a locomotive that makes the development of this place bigger. And it seems perfectly reasonable to assume that the impact of the Academy on them. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski, just pro-development, will be exactly like this. As far as the number of students is concerned, it must be taken into account that we are also at the stage of demographic decline. So that there are many trends here and it is difficult to make a clear assessment of this phenomenon. But, as I said, we are not talking here generally about an increase in the number of directions or degrees of study of the first and the second, we are just talking about changing the university profile to academics, which will involve conducting research and the possibility, after obtaining appropriate permits, of giving a doctoral degree to at least 2 directions. With regard to the third issue, namely the funds, it was rather our knowledge, whether during the committee meeting or outside the committee meeting, that was based on information about the investments that took place in the past. As far as larger grants are concerned, it can be said that on the one hand it will be funding from competitions for research, i.e. all kinds of grants from the National Centre for Science, the National Centre for Research and Development or other circular dycasteries related to European funds. As far as the grant granted by the Ministry is concerned, it is in principle only a grant for statutory activities and can only be granted once the relevant category has been granted. This is the whole procedure that's still in front of the university. In fact, it is not necessarily directly related to the fact that this is an academy, because any scientific entity that submits an access to parametric evaluation, after that assessment, may apply for such a statutory grant. We were rather talking about the fact that this might be an easier process, but it is not absolutely excluded in the present state of things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u135	Thank you, Professor. And I'll ask Senator Marek Borowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u136	Thank you very much. The presence of such noble guests sitting behind my back paralyzes me a little bit, I'll be honest with you. I'm scared to ask that question, but I'm gonna ask it. What is the legal basis for such a decision? I immediately reserve that I do not mind that all state higher vocational schools should be called dorms, because that is even a prettier name. Mr. Senator said there's an appropriate article in the bill, art. 3, which says what kind of person can be called a university, a polytechnic or a dorm. My question is, is there any other provision that authorizes such a decision, that is, using the title of the academy, so to speak, a promotion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u137	You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is the requirement of the article. 3 Laws on Higher Education from 2005 I have already told and even these considerations I have significantly expanded. I feel like I've even expanded it over and over again. If I were to address the senator's question directly, I would say this: firstly, we had a precedent in Szczecin, which I have already mentioned concerning the Academy of Fine Arts in Szczecin. Secondly, the Legal Offices of the Sejm and the Senate did not object on the compatibility of this law with our legal system. Well, it's a matter of practice or agreement. We have many such laws in our law, where the Sejm recognizes that it is such a lex specialis and that they can be taken because, I would say, they are on a similar level. This law contains an article. 7, if I remember correctly, which clearly refers to this record. The Sejm shall explicitly refer to the provision of the Article. 3th Higher Education Act 2005
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u139	Thank you very much, senator. You ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u140	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I admire the elegance with which the professor, as an outstanding scientist, presents a subject that is quite difficult to defend from the point of view of law. The reference to the Kazus of the Szczecin Academy is a bit missed, because it was a university created de novo, not from the transformation. But that's not what I want to talk about. In the first sentence, you mentioned that the godmother is Minister Rafalska. The godfather is definitely Senator Komarnicki, and this is not about the merit of this or other formation. I get the feeling that this hasty action is a certain race for political glamour or... So you don't call them worse. I have the following question. I am inclined to agree with the Professor that the guidelines of higher education law can be treated in the direction, but if we are to learn to raise the level of science and respect for the law... Wasn't there a point at the committee meeting to change these rules when we find them somewhat deadly? Wasn't it said that public universities, PWSZs, which are in other cities and sometimes take higher ranking positions than Gorzów, also open such that, so to speak, credit gates? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Because acting in the truth and respecting the law in the long run always brings better results than acting in an ad hoc way, based on non-essential considerations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u141	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for the kind words at my address, and thank you for the elegant wording of the questions, but I would like to draw your attention here to the above mentioned Senator, not the complete circumstances. The fact that the university in Szczecin was re-created is not true. I must say that the situation of the university in Szczecin was even more comfortable to some extent than in this Gorzów, because it has to be noted that the Academy of Fine Arts in Szczecin was composed of The university in Gorzów has made a division into departments quite recently and is in a much less comfortable situation in this area. I'm just giving it to clarify the facts and making it elegant. As far as further consideration is concerned, I must say that those of you who have had the opportunity to listen to my speeches in the Senate for a long time will have no problem with agreeing that I have always supported all actions and initiatives related to the development of science and higher education in Poland. It was mainly about funding these areas from the state budget, but also about all legal matters, although not only because we know that life is much richer than just legal solutions. And I think such considerations... that we didn't consider changing the rules at the committee meeting. I am here as rapporteur for the committee, but I can say that, over the past few years, since we have been dealing with changes in the names of universities in the Senate, we have repeatedly wondered whether it is entirely justified for Parliament to maintain the change in the names of universities, whether this should not be the domain of the ministry and the act at the level of the regulation. On the other hand, the universities said that it is important for them to consider this Parliament, because then it has a different rank. So the votes on this issue are divided. But as for the committee meeting, that's the topic we didn't deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u143	Thank you, Senator. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u144	Mr. Senator, Professor, when we adopted these regulations that set the conditions for universities, we clearly expressed our concern here that universities should represent the appropriate level and that this name should correspond to that level. And my question is this: did you discuss that another breach, introduced in this bill, could start an avalanche that would simply destroy the intentions of that law? That's the first question. Second line. To be a university, you have to have the right to a doctorate in two directions. And now the question is: does this future academy already carry out at least one of these possibilities? How's it look? And the third case. Mr. Senator, there are always several universities in places like Gorzów and my Saw. We're thinking of raising the level, too. And it wins the option that it is possible, but e.g. as a Bydgoszcz model, so that several higher education centres are consolidated in one city to make one university in a medium-sized city, but a decent one. Is there any chance that's gonna happen in Gorzów? A simple transformation of the CIS when leaving other academic centres seems to me to be a distraction rather than the necessary consolidation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u145	Thank you very much. Please respond to the rapporteur's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must say that concern is, of course. And the senator wants to know if there's gonna be an avalanche. In fact, I have already said on this subject that these more than 30 state higher vocational schools do not have such ambitions. There are from 3 to 5 schools that open rankings, some of the first 5 in these rankings are stable, are still at the beginning, and maybe of these 5 schools 2 or 3 centers have such ambitions. I even used that phrase, and I asked if it was better to be the best MFA or the weak academy? But these are, of course, dilemmas that each of us can decide. Here's what I'm gonna say. When we talk about an avalanche, let's look at the fact that in August it will be 11 years of validity of this law, and we have another such case when it comes to the academy. There were more complex cases when the dorms changed their names and became universities, and then there was no such discussion. And about the art. 3 These were doubts, we spoke of them here. There was a discussion about the fact that there were universities that had two powers from the same one. Now the question is, should this add up? We discussed this intensively at the committee meeting, at committee meetings, because there were several such cases. I don't want to mention these universities, although I have them in my memory, but it might not be elegant. In any case, life shows that these spaces filled with legal provisions are more that life is much more colorful than it is written in the law. Therefore, I personally am not afraid of this avalanche, provided that these proposals are actually not dealt with without reflection and with speed, but with deeper consideration. I think by looking at the extensive justification that was included in the Seym printing... I can even recall the number of pages, this justification is 13 pages, and Act 4 or 5. So these circumstances are and must be taken into account. I have so much to say, pointing out that some of what I said is my personal view, because we didn't have such a deep discussion at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much...]] [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but I didn't hear from the senator about a possible consolidation. Are there other universities there, and what's the plan for this?]] [[We have to go and see.]] In short, I would say that we did not have such a deep consideration. There was a thread of the AWF area, but I have to say that this is not such a deep knowledge that would help the senator in any way, and I could present it in a distorted way, which is why I would rather stop there. Let us remind you that in Bydgoszcz the situation was different because there was an academy and an adjective university was formed from it. It's a little different, too. The difference is, however, that the main task of the state higher vocational school is education, while the academy is already, by its nature, carrying out research and this integration takes place at a slightly different level and on different principles. But this is, as I say, just an additional comment. [[Thank you very much. Please, Senator Piotr Florek...]] [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Maybe in the next round, Mr. Senator...]] [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but I didn't hear the answer to the first question either. Does this university have the right to doctorate in one direction today?]] For today, there is not, but, as I said in my longer speech, the number of staff at the university's disposal could be sufficient for at least 4 such powers, the problem is that this staff is scattered and should be concentrated around those areas where efforts for the right to doctorate will be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u147	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Piotr Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the employer is increasingly asking what university has ended, and in my opinion there is a difference in whether the academy is over or if the university has graduated or if the university has graduated. It's already in some way distinguished. The example you gave about the Academy of Art in Szczecin is, in my opinion, completely missed. I remember very well the conversations with me, too... There was a connection, among others. a branch of the Academy of Music in Poznań, some other high school and the Department of Artistic Education of the University of Szczecin. We've dealt with a combination of scattered universities, resulting in one. Here we have a completely different story, we have a higher professional school, and let me remind you that higher vocational schools have been created... Probably in 1997 there was a law, in 1998 the first such schools were established, in 1999 there was an excavation of them, mainly the idea of universities in former voivodship cities. There were 36, I don't know how many there are right now. Of course, they are different in rankings... I'll say on the example of Wielkopolska, because I have a problem... There are higher schools in Kalisz, Leszno, Konin, they're all leading universities. I'm pretty sure we're opening up Pandora's can right now, and that doesn't give me any doubt... [[And the question, Mr. Senator? I'm asking you a question.]] I'm just finishing up... Let me ask you a question. We're opening Pandora's can, because if we make one exception... Well, we'll probably do it... As Senator Borowski said, maybe we can turn them all into dorms and there won't be any problem, they'll feel better. But if we make one exception, we can be sure that in a few weeks, there will be further universities in a few months that will have even more opportunities and the right to apply for the name of the academy. Aren't you afraid, Mr. rapporteur? And I'd have the same question for the Minister. That taking this first step will make this avalanche that you have been talking about actually happen, and to a large extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In fact, in my first speech, everything I could say about it, I said so that I could not add anything new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u151	Would you like to ask Senator Thomas Grodzki again? [[Not now.]] No? [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's for discussion, isn't it? Good. Would any of your senators like to ask the senator of the rapporteur another question? I don't see any volunteers. Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Minister Alexander Bobko. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! Before I go to the point, I'm going to say there's a reflection on how we're going to proceed. Sitting there in the back and seeing that most of the questions are addressed to your professor, who is guilty of God's spirit in the whole matter, and it turns out that he is the perpetrator of all this, I felt that these questions should be addressed properly either to me or to the ministry or to the applicants. And now I don't know if I should answer these questions, or do the Senate's custom to give the position of government, and then the senators ask me the same questions again? I don't know if... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Minister, please state your position, and if there are any questions, the senators will ask them.]] Good. [[Maybe you'll exhaust the subject and you won't have any questions.]] Good. Then I will present the government's position in one sentence: the government does not object to this law. [[Applause]] [[Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions for you...]] Well, I expect they will. However, I would like to answer those questions that have been asked. But I'll wait, maybe... If they're not repeated, I'll answer it myself. [[Minister, please refer to the issues that you believe should be deepened. You're welcome.]] Good. When it comes to funding... The question was how the financial situation would change. Well, it may sound surprising to people who are not somehow very closely related to the subject of financing higher education, but this law is actually actually neutral in terms of financial consequences. Because the funding system... The school grant is calculated according to a complex algorithm and the name of the school Whether a school is a university or an MFA is in principle not relevant for the method of calculating grants. The same is true with the number of students. You can only presume that more students may go to the academy because of higher rank. But in fact, someone can say that it's going to be the other way around, because today it's also about vocational education, and perhaps some students would like to go to vocational school, not necessarily to the academy. So it's kind of a fuss-telling thing. I can't tell you what the impact will be on the number of students. But the basic thing... Well, it's obvious here I refer to the words of one of the senators That the whole matter should be considered in a certain truth. Because it is absolutely not the intention of the applicants, nor even the ministry, to have the feeling that we want to here, I would say, sneak in the creation of the mentioned academy, as if pretending to be better than it is. Well, here's the thing. And it's already been said by your professor. It is clear that MFA does not currently meet the requirements of the Academy, which are defined in the 2005 Act. Then this law was modified, also as regards the conditions to be met by universities to use names such as universities, adjective universities or academies. And the situation is now that there are more precedents in the country, more cases of universities that use certain names, and de facto do not meet these statutory requirements, for various reasons, mostly historical. I mean. did not meet the requirements at the time of the bill, then the vacathio legis was prolonged and the situation repeated. Another example is the Catholic University of Lublin. It is an extremely well-deserved university, using the name "university" for almost a century. But the definition of the university, which was invented in 2005, the Catholic University will not actually meet, is a problem. And here I would like to say that when it comes to systemic issues related precisely to higher education, also to nicknames and what results from the use of individual names, I hope that all this in a more rational and systemic way will define a new law on which work is beginning. And in this sense, many of the problems that we are talking about here, related to names, maybe a little bit better will be solved in the new Higher Education Act. And in this particular case, we are dealing with a situation that actually on credit... I used that term at the session of the Parliamentary Committee. It seems that it was picked up by Members then and that it reflects the essence of the matter. The point is that we, on credit, name the State Higher School in Gorzów. That's what happened before. Previously, before this law, several universities were created when the conditions for setting up a university were not met. Those were political decisions. In my view, when I look at it now, from a perspective of a dozen years, in at least a few cases or in many cases these political decisions have had a positive effect, that is, they have actually made most of the schools that have been given a certain credit to trust... pay off the loan in such a way that it was a development element for the universities themselves, but also for the city and for the region. One more thing needs to be pointed out, and that is also the intention of the applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that since we will establish an academy in Gorzów, because of the act of changing the name, the level of education in Poland or in Gorzów will not rise. But for the city, it's a prestigious thing. It's important. This may be in some process the beginning of the dynamic further development of this school. That's what we're counting on. This was the case in at least a few cases in other cities, even in Rzeszów, where I come from. In 2011, a university was also established in Rzeszów in a situation where the PSP did not meet the requirements at that time. For the environment it was a very important act of development, also for the city, for the region. I think it was a positive act after all. I assume it will be the same for Gorzow. There is another important element that has not been noticed in the discussion. Namely, in Gorzów there is a local department of the Academy of Physical Education, which has doctoral rights. There have been attempts to consolidate In my opinion, in the case of Gorzow this would be a rational consolidation However, according to the knowledge that I have at this moment, this department is not very much inclined to join the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the case of the establishment of the academy, there is a chance. Yeah, I think so. There are also such declarations, and there is the will to make efforts to consolidate, to join this department already in the academy. Then one would get the rights of doctoral, and the other would have the chance to get at least one department. The Rector declares that a request will be made to the Central Commission this year. The issue of danger, the opening of Pandora's box, means that there will be further conclusions in a moment... This danger probably exists, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not likely that the dream of all schools, all Pandora's PPAs is going to become academics, because if the PPAS is operating in a city where there is a large university, or in a voivodeship in which there is a large university, and the PPAs are within a radius of just 30.40 km, then it is unlikely that this school is in its strategy and in its plans to become a dorm. PWSH have... Vocational education also has something to do in Poland. So this could happen, but I don't think it's mass. This may be true of several cases. And besides, as I mentioned, we hope to resolve this problem systematically, perhaps a little better in the process of working on the new Law on Higher Education. So I guess that's it for these answers. Once again, the government's position is neutral. We do not object to this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u153	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister relating to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? After the Minister's speech, are there no more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Are the senators registered? They're here. Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u154	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is undoubtedly a big day for my town Gorzów Wielkopolski. Finally, after all these years of working together with different backgrounds from every political option, we have seen the establishment of an academy in Gorzów. Ladies and gentlemen, when I decided to run for Senate, at the very beginning I told the voters that if I was elected, I would support all good projects. The lower House with 404 votes said yes. [[Voice from the hall: And we: no.]] Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank all those who have laid hands on the establishment of this university. I'd like to say - I'm speaking to the rector in particular. That thanks to you and your hard work, the Gorzow Academy is slowly becoming a fact. Thank you to my dear friend from Gorzow, Minister Rafalska, for her personal contribution. I am proud of the fact that in spite of all the adversities of fate there has always been in Gorzów awareness that the condition for the development of the city and its voivodship rank is having its own strong academic university. [[Well done for the senator.]] All major cities owe their development and well-being to universities, universities and state universities in modern times. Even during the industrial revolution, the explosion of industry caused the rapid development of many cities, and despite the lack of the necessary infrastructure, the establishment of universities was an obvious fact. The city, which wants to develop, aspires to be a regional centre, must attract and retain young people from the area, offering it the opportunity to get a higher education place. When I was building the Collegium Polonicum in Słubice in the 1990s, I dreamed of a comparable resort in my town. I watched how talented young people left Gorzow not only for Poznan, Szczecin or Wrocław, but also for Słubice, because this new university gave more education opportunities than at the same time in Gorzów. I am a business man and I am well aware that young educated people plus a strong academic center are a magnet that attracts investors. This is the only combination that guarantees that these young people in the future will act as executives, will be the subject, not the employees placed at the production tape. For the development of a city capable of staying in this city, it must be its driving force. Unfortunately, today most of them leave Gorzów for work in other cities. Dear Senators, today is the time to act, not talk. Right here in the Senate, we will put the proverbial dot over and over about creating an academy in Gorzów. I am convinced that the town of Gorzów, a voivodship, has a chance to become a strong scientific centre. Of course, not immediately, but slowly and consistently the position of the university will increase. I, knowing this school, am convinced of it a hundred times. By representing my Civic Platform club today, I would like to inform you that, as we said at the club meeting, we will support the initiative of setting up an academy in Gorzów. I know that some of my colleagues are concerned that this is a credit action, but I am convinced that both the entire scientific community in Gorzów and the political environment will pay off this commitment with a good deal of money. For my part, I declare that I am at my disposal when it comes to helping to set up this university. Thank you again for helping me set up the academy. Thank you very much to those who spoke and had doubts. I can assure you that, as the senator said, the stamp will not have to be given back, because this is a very efficient university. I am proud that such a university is in Gorzów. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u155	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski will now speak. [[Voice from the room: I wonder what he'll say.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Komarnicki has made me feel so that my words are barely passing through my throat, but I'm gonna pull myself together. Mr. Senator, there was one thing missing in your speech: where you were talking about the fact that this university had already been established, it would be worth adding, at least, hopefully, that it will arise. Right? [[I hope so, Senator.]] Yeah, 'cause the Senate's still gonna vote. I know the outcome of the vote, but for the record, it's better not to say it's already been written, because it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken. I said I'm very much in favour of these dorms. As far as I know, although I may not be a specialist in higher education law, the academy has the right to conduct scientific research... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...and state-owned vocational schools don't have that right. It is notabene some weirdness in our law, because it is scientists who conduct research, and they are also in state higher vocational schools. So if you are working on a new law, it may be worth thinking about it, although I know that of course the problem involves resources, because the more entities that can carry out research, the more people willing to reach for this money, but that is another problem. Agreeing that it will expand the possibilities and so on, I must argue with the law. It can't be that way, ladies and gentlemen, that... it's not an argument that it was once accepted... that the Academy of Arts in Szczecin was once established or that the Sejm adopted it almost unanimously. First of all, in recent years, the Sejm has adopted various laws, I would say, debatable, and the fact that this project has been adopted so much unanimously results from... I'll tell you, I finally have some internship, why this happened. This is because almost all Members have higher vocational schools in their national districts and therefore feel that it is better not to oppose, because if their school asks for it in a moment, then they will also vote unanimously. What does that lead to? It doesn't make any sense. I agree that you have to create a path, for example. for state universities, vocational higher education institutions which have a certain number of students, have a certain number of staff, etc. In their case, it is possible to act on credit so that they can already enter into... so that they can speed up, but this should be done by law. I am a little surprised by the Minister Rafalska, who is a member of the government, and a powerful member of the government, not one that nobody knows anything about, that she didn't just put the case at a government meeting. I mean, it's a little bit of an amendment. I know there's a big bill coming up, but I also know what it's like with big bills: you can wait a long time for them. Here you could make a small amendment, because, ladies and gentlemen, we're about to have all the state's higher schools... Minister Bobko, senator of our dear, said not that not everyone... First of all, some of them haven't thought about it at all, because it wasn't possible, but if you cross the path, you'll think about it. Secondly, we still have universities and universities above, and there are conditions to meet: universities with 10 degrees giving a doctorate, polytechnics, etc. respectively. Well, if you can do it here, you can do it there. Then why... They're gonna come out and say, "We're not ten yet, we have four, but if you give us three years here, we're gonna try." Ladies and gentlemen, this will lead to confusion and chaos, because indeed some will not achieve this at this time. What happens then? I'll tell you what's gonna happen. This term will be extended because it will not be taken away and we will have such an eternal state of transition. That is why I am sorry, but I cannot support this law not because I am against this university in Gorzów being an academy, only because I believe that it can be amended relatively quickly and do everything in accordance with the law, and not by celebrating the thousands of arguments that this is acceptable. No, that's not acceptable, and I think the Senate should pay particular attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u157	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Minister! This is a difficult speech, because I understand the enthusiasm of the local community, Mrs Rafalska from this land, Mr Komarnicki... And I'd totally do it. supported, if not for a few rules that should apply to us. Dura lex, sed lex, hard right, but right. If it is, let's change it first, but let's not open Pandora's can. Plato said, "Amicus Plato, sed magica amica veritas," a friend is Plato, but a greater friend is the truth. The point is that at the moment we are subject to, let's say, sympathetic, but nevertheless the pressure of the local environment to pass this vote, but by breaking all the rules of the current law. On the one hand, there is a completely negative opinion of the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, as well as a completely negative opinion of the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, and on the other hand there are declarations by the rector that he is able to actually from today And if not today, within 12 or 18 months, meet the conditions necessary to obtain the possibility of doctoral, through internal movements at the university and the combination of the number of scientists that really seem to be sufficient there. What prevents us from waiting for this time and with great pleasure and satisfaction then granting this university the title of academy? A year or even 18 months isn't a long time, and that's how we're gonna get away with it. I don't want to say: the disgustingness of our vote, especially as a Senate to uphold the law... We will avoid this discomfort when the university meets the conditions set out in a simple way, not giving particular interpretation opportunities, in the law on higher education. The second option is also possible: improving the law on higher education. Because if we think that the threshold for PWST universities is really too high, then we can change it if we think it's irrational. But manifesting a certain disregard for the current law, especially in the field of science, which we talked about so much about, that its state, the state of Polish science is not the best and we have to do everything to improve it... We really need to consider whether we are harming an ambitious young scholar from Gorzów by giving them unfair titles. I'm saying this as a simple surgeon, but at the same time the head of the national chest surgery examination board. Young surgeons also have a very extensive ego and ambition, but until such a surgeon brings a logbook with the number of procedures, due and established by the Ministry, he does not file any papers because he knows that they will be rejected. And in surgery, everyone understands that because no one is going to give surgical specialization to a man who hasn't done a certain number of surgeries because he's going to do damage and he's going to hurt people. And here we say, well, let's give it on credit, then we'll update it if it turns out that this doctoral requirement is not met. What I don't understand is that I know some of my colleagues from the Gorzow University and they even claim that I agree with Professor Wiatrem here. In fact, it could already be fulfilled. And I would be much happier if I could vote with a pure heart and with pleasure on a properly prepared application that meets all standards. Because right now, I have the impression that what we have here, apart from enthusiasm and the desire to be successful, is too small to say close to zero, the number of arguments. Finally, the last sentence, behind Albert Schweitzer: "A well-understood science protects a person from pride, for it shows him its limits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u159	Thank you, Senator. And I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm missing something, and I'm missing a plus in all of this. Because we were talking about the Academy of Art in Szczecin, but there was a connection to the music academy, there was something extra, something connected, something positive. You say that in Gorzów there is a branch of the Academy of Physical Education in Poznań, a very good academy, like this branch in Szczecin, also a branch of the University of Poznań. So there was an opportunity to make it a plus. But it didn't work, it didn't find the plus. And now they remain, so to speak, ambitions, these regional ambitions. Because we realize that the voivodships are smaller, bigger. As they were created, I always gave an example that Lubuskie, Świętokrzyskie, Opolskie are in total smaller, have fewer inhabitants than e.g. Wielkopolska. Well, that's the inequality of voivodships, which you must always bear in mind how you think about administrative division, because it has among others. It also has a specific impact on other cases. But I understand that in Poznan, for example. There are universities, there are 8 major state universities, there are 5 universities and this is a different situation than in these other cities. And as I look at this map, it's beautiful, it's bitter... But I've already spoken to the rector of one university, the other university in cities where there are higher vocational schools. And I can mention a few cities, for example. in Wielkopolska: about Kalisz The first university on the list Lesznie, not to mention Pila, because the senator is from Saw... But of course there are higher vocational schools in Pile, Leszno, Kalisz, Konin. They're all famous, good universities. And I am convinced that the ambitions of city presidents or mayors In those cities I'm talking about, there's presidents everywhere. It's going to be that if you can turn a higher vocational school into an academy, then why don't you do it. This is important from the point of view of such a city president, because he will say: oh, please, we have made such a change. How does that apply to the level of teaching? Well, it's nothing, because we know very well that the level of teaching in universities in recent years has been very low. This is best seen on the entrance exams at universities, and universities are already looking for students for known reasons. So it's hard. And that's why these changes probably won't raise, but maybe they won't lower, too. But like I said, the title is important to some people. We are talking about vocational training at the moment and, of course, vocational training is very important, but nothing will change here. There stays vocational training, and so it will be there, only there will be an academy. Of course, the academy... Well, the fact that she's an academy means that she should be doing research a lot earlier, and she should have something to show for today, but she should be able to give a doctor's degree in one direction. And here we are dealing with the fact that there is no such thing. But with a lot of trust, we approach it so that this university can handle it, the rector is a great rector, as I heard from the senator, so that the university can handle it. And if he can't handle it, he's gonna be a dorm anyway, and it's gonna be hard to get out of it. Okay, well, she's probably gonna be, I guess that's gonna happen, but I just want to stress once again that we have to be prepared for the fact that in this situation also other higher education institutions are gonna want the same transformation, and it's not gonna be one school, two or three of those first five, but And I'm convinced of that. There'll be more. That is why it is worth considering, and perhaps, as Senator Borowski said, we would need to look at the rules of law and prevent in the future... actions which will lead to a clear definition of what a higher vocational school must be in order to meet certain conditions. Well, in this case, we also know what conditions she should meet, but she doesn't exactly meet them. Therefore, we would have to stick to the law, if something were to be settled, and eventually we would have to improve the law so that everything would be done here actually according to the law, and not on the basis that whoever comes forward first might succeed, to the one, and if there was an avalanche of other applications, then probably at some point we would have to say "stop" or "inequality of opportunity." And that's something to think about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u161	Thank you, Senator. And please speak to Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u162	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, it won't be so bad, really, don't be afraid. It'll be your success. It's already your success, because you've actually done something in a man's way that others haven't been able to do for many years. I'm from Green Mountain, and I'm not saying this in jealousy because the university is fine with us. You're probably waiting, as a new facility, for the same problems, because young people are fleeing to other centers, and it's connected to the demographics that occur. But I'm sure the academy will be your success, which, of course, everyone will connect to today and talk about a common quest, about common happiness. But what really worries me is what you very much wrote here, Marshal Borowski or a colleague of Senator Grodzki. Wouldn't it be better if you actually waited a year, met all the requirements and didn't open the door for many other schools that might come forward with the same thing, because, from such a media point of view, it's better to be an academy than a state higher professional school, which is always associated with some kind of relic of the past. Although this is not the case and we are well aware of it. No one here has a grudge against the staff, which I also know, I know a lot of academic teachers at the state higher vocational school. We have no grudge against the university authorities who have been trying to make a difference for many years. In fact, I am surprised that the project of combining the local faculty of physical education and higher education has not come to an end. Perhaps if it had worked out, it would have affected us so that today we would not have to debate a project that is really a project that is right and we are happy to support it, only that we must break the law again. Perhaps that's the case in Law and Justice... [[What are you saying, man?]] ...that this is becoming a domain and every aspect of it... and we have to strain ourselves here. Because no one said today that the university meets the conditions of the Higher Education Act because it doesn't. We didn't hear... He doesn't have the right to doctorate because he doesn't. And since there isn't, it shouldn't be transformed. But for the sake of the case, because this is your hometown, we will vote in favour of this bill. At least most of us And this university will rise. I hope that in the case of those students who are going to learn, so to speak, on loan and graduate from this university... I hope that in the meantime the academy title will not be picked up and that in three years' time, as one of the senators said... there will be no problem to do something that we really don't know what to do or extend this period, and something like this isn't written in the bill or go back to where we started... It's kind of weird. Always tastes better the fruit that ripens in the sun and breaks it as it matures, and eats with taste than the fruit that is shot with chemistry, which is cool, beautiful for a short time, but we know what happens to it later. I haven't really heard the answer to the question. Perhaps the chancellor will be allowed to speak or maybe the minister. What's this academy gonna be like? Is it going to be a humanistic academy, or is it going to be technical, economic, medical? We didn't hear that here. Maybe there wasn't a chance to show it off. But once again, I congratulate the idea and, above all, the rapid implementation of it, this is undoubtedly the personal success of Minister Elżbieta Rafalska. I'm sure this is the success of the university authorities I congratulate. And I hope that we will be able to forget about those criticisms that have come out of many mouths as soon as possible in connection with the failure to meet all the conditions, and that we will have a sense of well done work, which I sincerely wish you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u163	Thank you. And please take the floor of Senator Józef Zając.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u164	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 19 years ago, PWSZ was created following the example of the German Fachhochschule. I think it was one of the best ideas of the last twenty-five years. At the very beginning Although I didn't join this job until 2001. One thing was seen: the great involvement of the first rectors and those who formed these universities. We had a deep conviction that this was a really great idea. Because what did we have then? Higher engineering schools have been promoted very quickly. to a group of polytechnics, and it is not always fulfilling the conditions which today half of PWS meets. It was a promotion, too. I think those who remember those days can remember all kinds of jokes about engineering schools. Lublin was full of these jokes about the Higher Engineering School, but it's over. I guess it usually happens that when something new comes up, it pinches a little bit, so to speak, but it often helps... The facts are known from history. As the Jagiellonian University was established, universities from Prague, Dresden, and Wrocław protested. And I think that if it were made available... if someone from the researchers, for example. From the IPN he looked at the Vatican libraries, he would find a relationship there, what it all looked like. What happened next with the I.A.S.? That's it. That's it. That's it. There's been a lot of stormy things going on. First, they wanted to make universities, forcing a number of conditions to be met under the threat of closure. Then they wanted to drop off the marshals. Nomine Patris... We have resisted a great deal and managed to prevent this drop-off. Then she showed up. And this is sad for me, the law on higher education, the law of the Minister of Kudrycka, and, what must be added, Professor Woźnicki, who, despite the huge protests from the staff of the WWSZ, led to huge barriers, barriers that many academy would not be able to overcome today. And what kind of barriers are these? First of all, personnel requirements, up to today's bullying professional universities. Imagine that in a huge mechanical direction, where 150 to 350 students are accepted, I have a situation that I don't have assistants because I have to hire the right number of professors and doctors. And for math, very well-off, I employ six professors, nine doctors and two assistants. Well, it's devoid of any logic. What did that come from? From the restrictive law of Kudrick and Woźnicki. She really needs to be changed so that we don't have to do all kinds of magic to make it work, because she's the one who built the barriers we're struggling with. And then there's the rankings. Part of vocational universities Mr. Senator Wind gave us the data here. He simply doesn't participate in the rankings because they are extremely expensive to us. The fact that we're only gonna run the rankings is another matter. Second thing. In this law And it hurts L.A.W.S. It was done, so to speak, by the machines. Well, it's said that research is conducted by universities. Not professors. It's something that hit us, at WWSZ, because we have scientists, and this, I can say, rank such that some universities do not have such universities; they came to us with the conviction that WWSZ should develop. And they do it, taking the place of engineering colleges that have been abandoned. Well, today, also thanks to this bill, we have a problem, because basically this position as if it weren't there. So what should we do now in this situation? Of course, I am absolutely convinced that we should give credit to the university in Gorzow and believe that it will not disappoint its hope, its trust in it, and that it will be a true academy. In fact, I would support the idea of my neighbour, Prime Minister Borowski, to simply treat it more widely and in one attempt to introduce a group of professional universities. Well, maybe with some exceptions, because there are universities where there are 150, 200 students or something, but there's a few of them, and they're gonna sort of disappear. And let's just forget about the driveways... They will, and I'll do the driveway myself. I have a college that has 2,000 300 students and there's a queue for some specialties from all over the country. I'm even experiencing a huge row from some parliamentarians about not getting in there or not qualifying for something later. What I said would be a very reasonable action, but it would be for the future. And for today, I think this breach is necessary. So that the minister and the rector congratulate you on your courage. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u165	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! It is interesting that, when discussing matters relating to changes in university names, there are extensive discussions in the Senate. These discussions are often very emotional, and in any case emotional arguments prevail over, say, factual criteria and arguments. In my speech, I want to raise a few points, exactly four, and I think they are very concrete and far from emotional. If we accept this bill and vote in favour, we will not break the law. We checked it out at the committee meeting, I asked the legislator about it. The legislative opinion that we have on the tables also makes this clear because of the article. 7 states, as the rapporteur said, lex specialis, who exempts from the general law on higher education for three years. So, in a formal sense, it's okay, but it's an embarrassing law, which Mr. Borowski pointed out, because we're going to have to decide on some similar formulas on a case-by-case basis. This will probably end in the same way, because the next rapporteurs and applicants will refer to the precedent that will happen today or tomorrow. So that there is a problem, and here I agree with Senator Borowski. However, voting in favour will not be a violation of the law, but the establishment of a special law for this university for reasons... Question: for what reasons? That's another topic I'd like to talk about. There was talk of research, about the law of doctoralism. As far as research is concerned, state higher vocational schools may carry out research but do not have to do so. Research, particularly organised and group, is more difficult for them to obtain funding because, despite strict criteria, these conclusions are ignored by the opinion-makers, and that is the problem. I think the same applies to the right of doctoral. The right to doctorate is exercised by organisational units, so for example, a department or institute at a state higher vocational school can apply for it and can obtain the right to doctorate, but it is more difficult than in the case of universities. So you can understand the procedures to first get a name change, because it will probably make it easier to do more, so to get scientific grants and get a doctoral right. Is this the right way and so to speak, wise? This is also what I asked at the committee's meeting because, in principle, the establishment of state-owned vocational schools is considered to be successful, generally considered to be well-functioning schools, increasingly linked to practice and providing good professional bases, good employment bases. The answer I received, at least in part, can be satisfying: it depends on the area. That's what we talked about today. If someone works in the area, so to speak, academically saturated, close to the university, they probably want to distinguish themselves from the university and put different accents. If someone is, as in this case, single in their own territory and practically the only university, it's his environment. She'd like to have an academic rank. Thus, the ambitions and efforts of the Gorzow University can be understood. I personally have a neutral relationship to the bill itself. I think it's very good... At least I agree with the way Minister Bobko put it. In fact, at the committee meeting, I abstained in the vote, and I will probably do so when I vote on the entire bill. But I actually understand the matter. I think that this solution is so embarrassing that we can expect a number of proposals, and every time we think about what to do, things will probably end the same way. But this cannot be called breaking the law, and it cannot be condemned. Rather, considering that this is going to happen, we would have to actually support the bill and somehow move towards it. Mainly from Gorzów, but also from Poznań In order for the local faculty of the Academy of Physical Education in Poznań to be willing to join the new academy. He will probably formally have to apply for doctoral powers again, because these powers do not automatically move, but with cooperation and agreement it would be possible to do so. I don't think you're gonna lose HR. So that we should wish good luck on this bill, and we should wish that we would reasonably survive the work on any further proposals, because that is something to be reckoned with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Mrs. Rector! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I've been standing by this podium for quite a while now, considering this point, but I can't keep my mouth shut here. Let me put it this way: let's stand in the truth and be responsible for the word. Senator Dowhan used this phrase a few minutes ago: breaking the law is the domain of the PIS. Well, it's hard to keep quiet about words like that. Senator Wach here so elegantly just before I presented it to us: lex specialis and not breaking the law. I brought up other examples. A lot of spicy details could be cited, for example, from the previous eight years. So that I take it, Mr. Senator, as a provocation to a wider so-called "provoking." politically, although I hesitate to consider this provocation effective, because it is difficult to take punches that are completely bullets into the fence. It's hard to be offended by such completely absurd accusations. However, if only one sentence of yours is heard unintelligibly, then it can be misled here. Certainly, such statements are disturbing the rhetoric of this discussion, because there have been different views here, and they can be fully or partially agreed with them. I must say that such distortions of substance of discussion have already been at the first point of our deliberations today. I held back not to intervene, not to protest, but to the winner of the prize, the silver lips of the parliament cannot remain silent, which is why I am protesting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u169	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Do the ministers still want to speak on this issue? No? Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: One word...]] You're welcome, Minister Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In fact, here is a replica with Senator Borowski, who used the phrase that this law is breaking the law, Senator Wach has already done, and thank you. I will not repeat myself here again, but it is true that this law does not violate the law. And a word to Senator Borowski. 'Cause the senator was kind enough to say that there was a small amendment to the bill. But there's no such thing, I think it's impossible. It is this law that is something that gives the legal basis for what we are talking about, not breaking the law, but... [[It was a small amendment that would create rules for everyone.]] No, Mr. Marshal... Maybe we can talk about it in the cockroaches again. But I just don't think that can be done. I would also like to conclude by saying that many of the speeches that have been made here, the broader ones, even if Senator Hare, are worth considering as a voice in a discussion that is about to come. - Well, maybe not so soon. On a systemic issue, which will certainly pass through Parliament in connection with the work on the new law. And I hope we can improve this parliamentary term a significant law on higher education, without political accents. There was a little Senator's accident here today, but I think we can drop a veil of silence on her... This discussion also shows that it was substantive. Reasonable doubts were expressed here Because you can have doubts, you can have arguments for not adopting such a precedent law. But these arguments for or against are not political at all. And I hope that in the discussions that await us about the law on higher education, this is the atmosphere that we will be able to maintain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u171	Thank you, Minister. Minister Elizabeth Rafalska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Rector! On behalf of the applicants, I would like to thank the High Senate very warmly for this debate. I would also like to thank you for the critical votes and say that we take them seriously and responsibly enough that the whole Gorzow environment Because it is responsible, it will want to prove to you, it will want to meet all the requirements and conditions that this special, exceptional law imposes on us. We take this as a commitment, as Minister Bobko said. It's a loan we'll try to pay off. There were arguments here that ambition led us to the Gorzów Academy. Ambition, too, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's not just ambition. Without all the ambition... Because if the scientific community hadn't been ambitious, probably part of the scientific community wouldn't have boasted of professorship or senate or parliamentary mandates. So these ambitions are needed. But it's not just ambition. For us, on the Polish-German border, the Academy in Gorzów is also the right state. There was no such information here that Gorzów is the only town of the Voivodeship without a state public school. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want young people from Gorzów to have to go to Berlin or even abroad. We want these young people to stay in Gorzów. This university is needed for the development of the voivodship city and the entire northern part of the voivodship, where the availability of state universities is very limited. I have data that relate to the number of students per thousand inhabitants. In Rzeszów there are almost 250 in Opole, 209 in Kielce I will give here the smaller voivodship and the smaller capital of the city of 139, in Toruń 129. And in Gorzów Wielkopolski there are 27 of them. Ladies and gentlemen, young people who cannot afford to be educated in Poznan 'Cause Poznan is closest to us. However, either in Szczecin or even in the close heart of Senator Dowhan Zielona Góra, he must unleash PLN 1.5 thousand to study outside his home. In such a situation, we exclude some young people from access to higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations were here. It's not about any personal or political success. In fact, it is completely irrelevant to these long-term efforts to integrate the overseas department, once a branch of the physical education academy with a state-owned vocational school. And that did not work, ladies and gentlemen, because on the other hand there was an argument: the local faculty today is a dorm, has a mother school in Poznań, often in need of those doctoral rights which are in the branch or in the local faculty, to maintain its structure as well. Today, if the Senate votes in favour of this bill, if the school has the status of academy... Well, the situation is changing dramatically. We are hoping to integrate this environment. So this argument you were talking about, Senator Wach, and these threats that in a moment other state higher vocational schools will be queuing up for academics... That's exactly what he was talking about, calling our future single academy on her territory. Because there's no access to state universities around here. In a situation where there is one university somewhere, there is another higher vocational school and there is a state higher vocational school, the interest in changing the state status of a higher vocational school to the status of an academy is completely different. I spoke today to Senator Dowhan, who probably, as part of our rivalry between Gorzów and Zielona Góra, I always said that if I truly envy something of Zielona Góra because I do not have to envy her dross successes, because we have a Polish champion, and as needed, Green Góra was such a champion too. It is a strong university and university environment. I believe that the right to development is a right that belongs not only to metropolises, a strong environment that is easy to build, ladies and gentlemen. Because we, in the voivodship with the highest rate of forestation, must also give us a chance to develop in various areas, also in the field of science. It's a lot harder to build a strong academy. We must therefore sometimes reach out to such exceptional solutions as we have proposed to the High House. I'll ask your support. And Mr. Marshal Borowski will also ask for your favour, because in Gorzów some people still remember that you were once a Member of Gorzow's land. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's what happened, that's what happened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u173	Thank you, Minister. Minister, I understand you've been acting as a minister, not as an applicant... [[Both.]] No, no, I understand that this is the situation... [[The rules don't provide for...]] I just want to say that the rules of procedure do not provide for applicants. [[But because of the government, it's...]] But thank you, ma'am. [[It's done.]] Thank you... Well, it happened, yeah, it happened, but I have to... [[The Minister was invited by your marshal on purpose, so...]] Okay, okay. [[Mr. Marshal...]] No, Mr. Senator... [[But on a peri-formal basis.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But no, Mr. Senator, there's no question about the formal... [[No, no, I would mostly like to be caught by the Minister...]] Oh, the corrigendum, right? [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u174	To correct it, yes. Namely, I remember well that I was indeed an envoy from Gorzow. And for this reason, Minister, I will only abstain, and I will not object. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u175	Thank you very much. I'm closing... I've already closed the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[And when will that be?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the examination... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, this is not a formal voice. [[What time?]] [[Not when, but when.]] At the end of the Senate meeting. I don't think that if we're going to proceed at this rate, we're gonna run out of agenda today. [[Get ready for Saturday.]] We're on the third item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item three of the agenda: the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 129 and the report of the Commission In print No 129 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u176	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I took part in the privilege of representing 2 joint committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, which at its meetings on 12 and 19 April considered the Law on the Prevention of Sexual Crime. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 31 March of this year, and was addressed to the Senate. The report is in print No 129 A and the law we have been working on is in print No 129. As regards the reasons for this submission, the committee had the opportunity to hear the reasons. It was related to the increase in Poland, the increase in sexual crime in the world and therefore the forms of the fight against this crime, the forms of struggle which so far have been so-called. reactive measures, i.e. that the perpetrator has been found, punished and not dealt with further... Active measures are introduced or there is a trend in introducing active measures, which are based on the control, the conduct of the perpetrator of the sex crime is tested also after the penalty is imposed on him and will be executed. Of course, one of the reasons for such action, and this was also said at the committee meeting, is that sex offenders usually return to their crimes. And may I at this moment recall the opinion of the Child's Ombudsman, Minister Mark Michalak, who, in his extensive opinion and, in fact, favorable for this amendment... Allow me to quote a passage from the Opinion on the return of sex offenders to crimes: • Referring to the draft law on the prevention of sexual crime • within the remit of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, it should be stressed that the perpetrators of sex crimes against children often return to the crime despite previous convictions, and the sentenced sentence does not play a significant preventive role. For this reason, any amendment to the law, which involves strengthening the protection of children against sexual crime, deserves the benefit of it. So that we also have this opinion that kind of confirms the fact... Well, since the Minister, who by definition deals with children's rights, confirms that, this is certainly a very important argument. There are two models for the fight against sexual crime as far as the perpetrators are concerned. One model that works in the world, and this is what we talked about at the committee meeting, is a clinical model that focuses mainly on therapy during and after the penalty. And this is the model that the continental states aim at, as far as Europe is concerned, among others. Italians. But the second model, which is starting to get more and more rank, is the model contained in this law, aiming to ensure that the perpetrator of sexual crimes simply constantly control, control him even after he has been punished. All of this fits into a certain axiology that we adopted in committee, which is that in a conflict between the rights of the sex offenders and the rights of the victims of these crimes, and this certainly exists in an ongoing discussion of how much rights the perpetrator should have. It refers to the right to privacy, the right to retain personal data in secrecy, and how many rights should the potential victim of such a perpetrator have... And with regard to this discussion and the conflict between these rights, there is a trend in this direction, in order to put more emphasis on the rights of potential victims so that next such acts will not be experienced by minors. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill you have before you is very important. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 is defined its scope, it specifies what area it is trying to regulate. The Act sets out specific protection measures against sexual crime and defines what these specific protection measures are and what are sexual offences. According to Art. 2 sex crimes are crimes against sexual freedom listed in Chapter XXV of the Criminal Code, with exceptions. You can find this chapter very easily, because in the documents provided to us, in the materials provided to us, in the so-called. comparative material If you don't have it, it can be downloaded. This chapter XXV is distributed, but, as I repeat, this chapter should be taken with exceptions. The Act introduces specific measures to protect against sexual crimes. This particular measure that triggered the biggest discussion in the committee is the sex offenders' register. A register which is divided into a restricted access register and a public access register. The second measure, which is introduced in this law, is the imposition on the employer, the person who employs or deals with the activities of minors, the obligation to read the register. At a time when a person applying for a job with minors is in the register, he will not be employed. The third special measure is a map of sexual crimes to be prepared by the police. This is also found in the comparative material. But, as I said, most of the discussions were raised by the registry institution, which consists of two independent bases. Limited access database contains information about persons You can see this in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 which have been legally convicted for the offences referred to in Article. 2, which is chapter 25. These are persons who have been legally convicted of protective measures, persons who have been legally suspended from criminal proceedings, including minors who have been legally convicted of measures such as an educational measure, a correctional measure and an educational and medical remedy, e.g. a correction facility, and other such criminal measures. This is a log with limited access. Of course, I don't go into details anymore. This register must be considered in the context of other articles. In fact, as far as the restricted access register is concerned, there was no discussion. One amendment has even been tabled by the President, Senator Sewerinski, so that this limited access register simply contains all the data that are also included in the open access register. This amendment was not supported by the majority, but by your senator as an alternative to the amendments in print 129 A... That there was supposed to be an amendment in their place, but she didn't go through with it. And what is this so-called register? public? It is a new institution that we meet in the world, in countries such as: The United States, Canada, we meet her in some part of the UK. When it comes to the origins of this institution in the countries I mentioned, it was among others. the fact that the communities there have realized that the limited access register is no longer sufficient. I would like to draw attention just to the fact that it has decided, for example. in the United States of America on the introduction in all states in 2005 of an open register, of course made available in different forms. The first register was introduced in 1991. In 2005, 40 states already had these registers. They were introduced after a small girl named Megan moved into a house next door to a house next door. This has not been notified to the people of this neighborhood. The unsub lured this girl and committed a sexual crime. The parents of this little girl, Megan, in the 1990s, probably in 1991, if I'm not mistaken, brought over 400,000 signatures to the meeting to put in place control of the sex offenders also after they were punished, i.e. In short, to enter an open register. Pay attention, 400,000... I think this is an amazing representative sample that talks a lot about how American society voted for it. We, who often take part in the collection of signatures, know that 100,000 signatures already collected are a lot. And that little girl's parents raised $400,000. The so-called "introduction" has been introduced. Megan's law, which still applies today to the extent that in some states, e.g. In the state of Oregon, the sex offender who's gonna move in, live in a neighborhood, has an obligation to put in a window information that he's committed a sex offender. The discussion, of course, was about whether or not they were challenged... And that was basically the essence of our committee's deliberations. The discussion concerned whether the introduction of a record that the perpetrator of a sexual act, even after the execution of the sentence, is still in the register, and in an open register where anyone can access the website of the Ministry of Justice 'Cause that's the way it's supposed to be from the technical side. And there in the Public Information Bulletin find information about this... So anyone could find out that this person is a sex offender. The question was whether, in such a situation, there was an article in this law. 27... as you will see, art. 27, which says that within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act and the Act is due to enter into force on 1 October 2017, data on sex offenders will be introduced... Therefore, those who have already been punished will be included in this open register. It has been pointed out that since they will be in this open register, they may be stigmatized, stigmatized, unable to do work, and it does not matter whether it is a criminal measure or a punishment. At the committee meeting, we wondered whether this would interfere with the fundamental principles that exist in the law, generally in the law system, but that the law does not work backwards, lex retro non agit and nullum crimen sine lege, i.e. when there is no law, there is no penalty. I don't know if you've noticed that the committee has been sitting in two rounds. She celebrated in 2 rounds because it was held on 12 and 19 April, and this was the case, among others. because we have asked for the case law of the Strasbourg European Court, the caselaw that was referred to at the committee meeting and from which we could find out whether, in the case of sexual offences, the Strasbourg tribunal did not, however, suggest the existence of the lex retro non agit principle. Allow me to recall some of this very judgment, the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The complainants are 3 French citizens living in France, currently residing in a penitentiary. They were properly sentenced to imprisonment for rape of minors at the age of 15. Accordingly, in August, November and February 2005 and 2006 the complainants were notified of their entry in the database due to their judgments against them and on the basis of the transitional provisions of the March 2004 Act. On the basis of the article. 7, which refers to the prohibition of punishment without a legal basis, and Article. 8, which refers to the right to respect for private and family life, the complainants brought a complaint, in particular in connection with their inclusion in the database of sex offenders and the retroactive application of the provisions introducing this database. What was the decision of the tribunal? What did the tribunal say? The obligation resulting from the entry into the national database of sex offenders had a purely preventive and dissuasive purpose, and could not be regarded as a criminal pressure or sanction. The need to confirm your address annually and to report changes to your address within 2 weeks is the confirmation of the address we have in the article. The 11 laws we are debating, although valid for a period of 30 years, were not serious enough to be punished. The Court therefore took the view that the inclusion in the national database of sex offenders and the obligations of the complainants did not constitute a penalty within the meaning of Article. 7 of the Convention and that it should be seen as a preventive measure for which the principle of non-retro non-agit lex referred to in that Article is not applicable. The complaint was therefore rejected. In fact, that's the essence of this ruling. When the committee met on 19 April, the discussions we had before concerning the principles of lex retro non agit and nullum crimen sine lege were no longer held. In principle, the committee's work has proven itself to be a vote, to accept amendments which are annexed to print No 129 A. I'd like to stress... You have certainly drawn attention to the fact that very often, when laws are very controversial, there are minority proposals. In this case, there is no minority request. The Commission generally agreed with the diagnosis submitted by the applicants. The quote from Minister Mark Michalak's opinion, which I quoted, also suggests that. The biggest discussion raised the question of whether there should be an open public register in addition to a limited access register. Something very important and symptomatic is the fact that the minority proposal has not been submitted. With regard to the vote, it looked like this: 8 votes in favour in favour of the bill in this submission, together with these amendments, 4 votes against... 8 votes in favour, 4 votes against... I don't think anybody abstained from voting. That was more or less the ratio. There was also a discussion on the article. 18, which says that the data contained in the register was erased. Attention was paid to the lips. 1 point 4, which refers to a minor for whom the penalty will be removed after 10 years. This point raised the debate. Among the amendments is one which speaks of an alternative maintenance of this penalty. I hope the most important things have been presented. If there are any questions, I'll try to answer them. Thank you very much and I ask you to accept this submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u177	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Sexual Crime Prevention Act amends the Police Act of 6 April 1990. I'm talking about adding an article. 21o. Was the matter of this article discussed at the committee meeting? I mean, the origin of how this article was included in this bill. I can read it: The Chief Police Commissioner keeps a police map of the threat of sexual crimes containing current information on the locations of the particular threat of crimes against sexual freedom listed in chapter XXV of the Criminal Code. And lips. 2 Very important: The sex crime threat map is made public by publishing on the Public Information Bulletin website of the Police Headquarters. I wonder... These maps are coming up lately, and we've been talking about a map of health needs. We're still making maps. Here, in turn, we have a map of the dangers of sexual crimes. I understand that if such a map were for the police, it would be very important, but it would be important to publish such a map... I don't know, there's gonna be one threat at some point, another two, another one in black, because there's a bigger threat... That's a regulation that's gonna regulate. For example, I'm going to say one thing as an asset valuer: if I were to value property, I would take into account such a threat map and lower the value of some property if I... Therefore, my question is: what is the reason that this threat map is supposed to be public, that everyone will have an insight into it? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u179	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u180	Yes, there was a discussion on this subject, but, I think, it fits into the model, so to speak, advocated by this law, which is a model that comes down to the fact that society controls the behaviour of the perpetrator of sexual crimes even after the execution of the penalty. And this is about keeping things from happening. And, of course, we talked about it at the committee meeting. "Suddenly, a sexually motivated criminal comes to our neighborhood, who has committed the most dangerous crimes, those referred to in the law, which have been qualified, for example. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 197 §3 (2) or §4 where there is a sexual offence committed on a person under 15 years of age. And now imagine that suddenly in our neighborhood, in the neighborhood of someone who has children, there's someone like that. And the parents... I mentioned Megan's law here. This little girl's parents had a great deal of resentment for the American state, for institutions that care about security, and they asked: why didn't you inform us about it? They said, "Well, then we'd be watching that 7-year-old girl, and we didn't watch it because we didn't know a criminal was here." I repeat once again: what we are talking about is not part of the clinical model that operates in many European countries, but in the model of controlling the perpetrators of crime. And we in this bill give the public the right to control them. In my report, I mentioned the state of Oregon, where the perpetrator of the crime is obliged to put in the window information that he is the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u181	Now I'd like to ask the senator questions. What is the situation today when it comes to obtaining information? There's a National Court Register, there's a record of perpetrators of crimes, including sexual ones. Who now has access to this register? Or just institutions or individuals?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u182	Mr. Marshal, in the National Criminal Register Act 'Cause it's mostly about the National Criminal Register. From 2000, one of the articles lists entities which have the right to consult that register. The National Criminal Register is to some extent, you can say, repeated in the register with limited access. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 7th bill that we are discussing in our paragraph. 1 It is mentioned that there is limited information from the National Criminal Register in the access register. But in the mouth. 2 The point is that there is also information other than in the National Criminal Register. Thus, the limited access register is obviously enriched with other information, it has a different structure of information. And, of course, there's an article that says there's still a public register. And about what you're asking the marshal, I mean. o National Criminal Register, it was at the committee meeting that there were also such questions as why this register was simply not sufficient. Information to be included in the register, i.e. in its part, the limited access register, is both the information referred to in paragraph. 1 as well as those referred to in paragraph 1. 2. So there's more information here. Of course, only certain entities have access to the restricted register, in accordance with Article. 12. Not everyone has access to this register unless it's the person concerned. It was precisely because, in order to be able to implement this model of control over the perpetrator of sexual crimes, it was necessary that, in addition to the National Criminal Register, there should also be a register with limited access.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u183	I, of course, am not a specialist in criminal law and criminal proceedings, but do individuals currently have access to the National Criminal Register or not? Or just the actors... I mean, can a citizen use the register right now to find out where a criminal lives. But okay, I'll ask the minister that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u184	I think, Mr. Marshal, if every citizen... I mean, yes. Every citizen concerned by this register has the right to read the data from this register, but this is a limited register, he in some part, so to speak, repeats this National Criminal Register. I don't have a law on the National Criminal Register in front of me, but I know, because I've checked that there are enumeratively listed entities who have access to it. As far as individuals are concerned, they must be able to justify this properly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'd like to be sure about the article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which refers to the fact that the employer or the organiser of an activity related to education, education, recreation, treatment or care of minors are required to obtain information as to whether the person they wish to employ or allow to carry out a specific activity is included in the register with limited access. I understand that this provision also applies to students or listeners who participate, for example. in pedagogical practices in schools or kindergartens. Question one: who in this situation should apply for information from the register Academic University is the school or kindergarten where the practice takes place? Question two: for what period of time is the validity of the information obtained? And three: should the information obtained be kept in the student's personal file? If so, consideration should be given to defining this in the regulation of the Minister for Science and Higher Education on study documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u188	Excuse me, which article... art. 20. Yes? [[Art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of ……]] Mr. Senator, it seems that... art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One must certainly read together with the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 2: Who shall allow for work or other activities related to education, education, recreation, treatment or care of minors without obtaining the information referred to in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, or knowing that the data of that person are included in the register, is punishable... I think it's art. Article 22 (2) (b) 2 somehow answers the first question you asked. The other questions concern issues, I admit, very detailed. I think the Minister would be more appropriate with regard to the question of storage time and how this information will be stored...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u190	Mr President, what effect will this have if it turns out that Jan Kowalski is a sex offender in Warsaw? After all, there are thousands of inhabitants of this name in Warsaw. No other data will be allowed. And what will happen in the Cards, where the name Łącki is popular, if one of the 10 Janów Łącki was once a terrible criminal, but everyone lives elsewhere? No other data will be allowed. What will be the situation of these people? Have you considered that you can infamous people who are often completely innocent? They're the ones who'll have the responsibility to be in front of their neighbors, explain to their friends that it wasn't them. Anyway, that could be a side effect. Have you considered this? And second question. From the newspaper's description a few days ago: a group of drunken 17-year-olds committed mass rape on a minor, were given after 2.5 years, will be released after a year for good behavior. For 10 years these people will be followed by this case because of this bill. How are they supposed to rehabilitate, whenever they appear, that message will follow them, and if God forbid, there would be two crimes, as Senator Florek said, this area would still be dragged into a map of a particular threat to sexual crimes? How is the rehabilitation of such individuals to be conducted?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u191	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u192	Mr. Senator, if it were possible in the context of the first question, it's about the risk of confusion that it's the same name... [[It's not a mistake. There are people like that.]] There are people with the same name... Well, you know... [[Same name.]] There could be a limited register to which only specific entities would have access, and these specific entities, I understand, qualified to verify it. About the map... Because what you said about protecting yourself from criminals who are going to live in the neighborhood... This is gonna be a crime map, and it's gonna be the police that's preparing this crime map. So if the police on the crime map put a sex offender, I understand he'll be verified. Because there are 3 specific measures to protect against criminals: there is, of course, a register, limited, open, there are obligations of employers, but there is also a map. And of course, someone who will see on the map that, by contractual terms, there is this red color, will still be able to check in the open register if, of course, we can enter the data. So that I think that this is where... However, as far as the countries that have introduced such registers are concerned, this type of situation is not noted, or at least it is not publicised. As regards this situation concerning Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 4 of the Act... That is the way it is said: the data on the person entered in the register shall be deleted from the register if the conviction has been erased by law and, moreover, upon receipt of the notification of the failure order... etc. Data on the person entered in the register referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (4) is deleted from the register 10 years after the date of entry into force of this Regulation. Mr. Senator, this record has somehow been changed. Because if you wanted to take into hand the amendments that are in this yellow printing, you'd see that Amendment 3 is just saying that in Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, i.e. the one I just quoted, the introductory part is replaced by the following: "Data on the person entered in the register referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 (4) is deleted from the register after receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph. Point 1 (3) or after 10 years. So we're introducing one more option except for those 10 years, because we're introducing a notification. This is a notification, Mr. Senator, a notification referred to in the paragraph. Point 3 (1) concerns a situation where a time-limit is restored to appeal against a decision recorded in the register, or where such a decision is revoked as a result of the deletion or reopening of proceedings. If this deadline is restored and may occur, the 10-year period is no longer valid at that time. I hope that the High House will accept the amendments tabled by the committee and made by the government. [[A voice from the hall: I will allow it, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u193	In a minute, Mr. Senator. Now, Senator Florek and you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u194	Mr. Senator, I'm going back to what you said. I mean the map. As an engineer who's certainly done thousands of acres of maps in his life, I think it's art for art. I would like the Minister to explain it to me later, because I do not know whether maps of this type are created in other countries. From what I understand, the detail of such a map would have to be so large that if I lived, for example. On Queen Jadwiga Street, I would have to know that on the next street, e.g. On Bolesław Chrobry, lives a person who is a sex offender, etc. After all, we cannot achieve such detail of the map. That's why I'm asking, what's with the map? This is what the police need, and I realize that the police need to know exactly where, where, where, etc. And the connection, like you said... When we have the ledger open, it makes no sense to link it to this map. I think we should delete the article. 21. I'm gonna think about making an amendment that leads to its deletion. Either you explain it to the Minister because maybe I'm wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u196	I imagine that the instrument, which is a map, is being used in a way that is integrated into the register. When there is a map and there is information that a light is lit in a given area to be careful, then when there is an open register, it can of course be verified very quickly. Perhaps there are some details that you're asking the senator about, and which... At the committee meeting, we did not talk about this in such detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u197	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u198	First of all, that's the point. What you're talking about, this amendment doesn't completely eliminate the problem I was talking about. [[Not at all.]] Those boys I mentioned. That's a fact. After implementing this law for 10 years, wherever they appear, they will be branded for this act, committed drunk at a very young age. And the whole rehabilitation effort that was put in there, and I assume they'll get out early for good behavior, will actually be destroyed in my opinion. Then, Mr. Marshal, let me ask you a question. Maybe there's another way. Hence my question. If the criminal changes his name, what effect will it have?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u199	There you go. [[Not a criminal anymore, because after he's been punished. He's not a criminal anymore. There's been a blur...]] [[Why ask stupid questions?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u200	We, of course, asked such a question at a committee meeting, we asked, Mr Senator, such a question to the Minister in the context of this 10-year period when the perpetrator is recorded in the register. The information we received was like this. At that time, there was no amendment that would certainly reduce the scope of the subject matter. It is, however, more likely than at another age to return to sex crimes, and this must also be taken into account. That's the information we received. [[But I don't think it's a vending machine.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u201	Thank you. Do you have a question for the senator? Senator Ryszka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u202	I have this question: does it fit into the register from the vending machine, or does the court decide that certain persons who could be harmed by themselves and others, etc., may not be entered in the register?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u203	You're welcome. [[That's not what the court decides.]] Good. There is a question and there will be an answer. Does the vending machine fit in, or does the court decide?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u204	In the structure... [[He's been convicted, it's registered, and that's it. What's there to discuss?]] There is a National Court Register Information Office in the Ministry of Justice structure. In the Act, for its purposes, the name "information office" is used in a nutshell. And it is the information bureau's duty to keep this data in the register. It is also obliged to notify the person who will be in such a register within 7 days of being in it. And, of course, there are many other things that this office does. But now we're talking about the technical side. And who is in the register, as referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and paragraph 1. 2. In the mouth. 1 on who is in the restricted register There are listed persons who are legally convicted, etc. etc. And there's an open register. When there is a qualification, when the act results from a redecisive, i.e. Someone committed a sex crime, a conviction was executed, and someone like that committed that crime again... So that we're talking about actions that are classified as the most dangerous ones. And that kind of qualification makes the perpetrators of these crimes exactly in an open register. So that as far as the scope is concerned, who is in the register, it is referred to in Article. 6. As far as the technical side is concerned, of course, the information office is concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u205	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I have a question, and I have doubts that I can't solve on my own. Did the legislator foresee such a situation that the criminal would be mentally ill and would be treated, and, after recovery and, perhaps, after the judgment, his health would return to so-called normality? Will such a person be in the register mentioned here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u207	Mr. Senator... [[No, not convicted...]] ...I've just summoned an article. Six... [[Yes.]] ...pt. 1 and paragraph 1. 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the [[Talking in the O.R.]] The senator is, so to speak, on my voice line. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 (6) (a) 1 is a reservation. There is: subject to Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One, three, three. And in the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 it shall be stated that no data on the person referred to in Article shall be entered in the register. Six, if the court so decides. That's what the court might say. It goes on to say: "Assuming responsibility in a criminal case specified... Then the court can also say no. Simply the first 3 paragraphs of Article. 9, you can say, verify the data that may be contained in the said register. And there's no record that just doesn't come from a ruling, one that the court simply wouldn't decide... [[But, as I understand it, if such a person is cured, he will not be included in the register, yes?]] If he's cured... You're talking about healing in terms of chemical castration, etc.? [[About every cure. I'm talking about everyone.]] The court must rule on this. According to Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 [[Of course. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u208	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u209	Mr Senator, Mr President, have you ever considered that a psychopath and a serial killer who comes out after a long time sentence will not be in any register because he did not commit a sex crime? It won't be in any public register. And the 17-year-olds who got hit after two and a half years are gonna be there. Is it really the right measure to say the situation and things?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u210	There you go. [[Sentence of the year two and a half...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u211	You know, it's certainly a question of a more philosophical nature. I can't do it right now... One of the articles... one of the amendments we accepted... It's just that I'd have to... One of the amendments extends the subject-matter range of persons who are subject to registration. But I'd have to do all this... Oh, yeah, okay. I'm sorry, I should have said that right away. Amendment 1: in Article. Paragraph 7 One is inserted... in the mouth. One, aha, that's not important at the moment, and the other isn't important either... He's moving in his mouth. 1a, where is the information that the data on the person entered in the register The register shall be exchanged, i.e. the name and such name and such name referred to in paragraph. 1... A, in the Act in Article. 7, which means it's a restricted access register. And those data shall also include data on matters other than those referred to in Article. 2. A. 2 is the definition of sex crimes. [[Voice from the room: And the open register...?]] Oh, the open register... But that's what we're talking about... With regard to the knowledge of this information, it is only a matter of fulfilling the requirements of the Article. 12, just talking about who might benefit from it. So that Amendment 1 extends this subjective scope.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u212	Thank you. Senator Florek would like to ask you another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u213	Since I'm not a member of the committee, I'd like to know, Senator... So what I understand is that the open register, the one we're talking about, will only cover those perpetrators of acts who will commit these acts after the law enters into force, and that this register... I'm talking about this open register. Another matter is the closed register. But this open, open-minded one will, as I understand it, refer only to the time from when the bill will come into force, not backwards. Is that really the way it is, or... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Am I wrong? [[Voice from the room: You speak well, just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u214	Okay, that was a question for the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u215	Mr. Senator, Art. 27, which states that within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this Act This is also the case: data on persons are included in the limited access register... And here are the names of those who are already mentioned in the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1, of course, legal qualifications are also exchanged, etc. But there's also talk of who's gonna be there. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 of the article states that the public register contains data on the persons referred to in point 1 (a). a and d. A this point 1 lit. a and d specify that the persons who have been convicted pursuant to Article are to be placed. 197 §3 point 2 or §4, i.e. rape of a person up to the age of 15 and other crueltiest actions, as well as... And there's also, of course, a procedure in redecise. But here the first sentence is very important, saying that within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this Act... The Act enters into force on 1 October 2017. And for 12 months, this data will be placed. [[Voice from the room: Isn't it?]] I was just talking about the rule that the bill doesn't work backwards. And I referred to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and we at the committee meeting, already in the second part of the committee's deliberations, after hearing this caselaw, found that in certain situations it was possible to depart from the principle of failure to act backwards.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u216	So what I'm saying is, I'm sorry, I'm gonna fill in the same thing on these maps? These maps will also be... 'Cause if it's gonna fit in with the maps, that means we're gonna look backwards for the maps, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u217	Well, you know, here's the argument that there's repeatability of crime. And it's a non-clinical model, just a model of controlling the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any more requests for questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Jak: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u219	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'd like to start by diagnosing the problem that we've faced with Anna Domini 2016. First of all, I will refer to the discussion of the third sector, which is often referred to here in various kinds of discussions. Well, High Senate, there are organizations that specialize in showing the police pedophiles, there are people who anonymously write on the Internet that they are. Little girls or boys, and that's how they catch sex offenders. According to the statistics of these organizations, on average every two days they provide police with further information on people with paedophile tendencies. If we'd reached out to the press in the last few months, we'd have found a lot of titles... Oh, I even brought a few: the recidivist paedophile molested children, suspected of rape of an 11-year-old in custody, came out of prison and raped a two-year-old girl, and the paedophile came out of prison and raped in Grudziądz, a multi-year-old paedophile again arrested. There are a lot of cases like this, High Senate. We also need to add the information the police have at their disposal. There's a special portal that works with the police and runs the statistics. And I would like to say to you that we can learn from them that on the Internet such paedophile crimes were only reported in the first quarter of 2016 more than 4 000; compared to the same quarter of 2015 there is an increase of 30%. And that's the problem we've come to face, High Senate. And at the same time we know that at the moment such methods are used in the Polish country... The old model, restrictive, is to catch a criminal and put him in jail. The problem is that the world has moved forward and we are living in the world of 2.0, some even say that 3.0 is in the online world, which has become a paradise for criminals. In this connection, many countries, as the rapporteur mentioned, have been considering introducing a new functionality for a country that would allow for a more effective defence against sexual crime. And this functionality is a preventive functionality. These may actually be measures such as: Castration, as already mentioned in the discussion, can be such as open registers, which are extremely effective in the countries where they were introduced. Your Senate, I will say this: if one of you asked me as a father, would I want to know that in the area where my child lives, a person has moved in or suddenly started to function a person convicted of a paedophile crime with special cruelty, then I would strongly say that as a father I would like to have such knowledge. And I am convinced that if we asked the same question to all Poles, the majority would answer exactly the same question. High Seym... Excuse me, High Senate, I would also like to say that the Ministry of Justice has been affected by a lot of parents' grievances, and you can find them online by typing the passwords I mentioned. Who are asking why you didn't do anything. Parents write: We could protect our children if we had knowledge. And that's what this bill is all about. We want the criminal not to be privileged, only so that the innocent person can defend herself so that he can have the instruments, the tools to defend himself against it. Unfortunately, the Polish penal system, as I have said extensively Perhaps this is a broader theme, although important in this discussion is extremely mild for such criminals. You don't have to look far for an example I'm just gonna appeal to the recent high-profile accidents when more rapists get suspended. In general, such criminals get out of prison very quickly. Like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, I've also quoted similar figures. I've also cited statistics. Therefore, I would like to say, High Senate, that when we collect all this information, we must decide to make a move. The Polish state must equip society with some instruments that will enable us to defend our children more effectively. And when you ask me also if I believe that the introduction of this kind of solution will save just one child, I want to say with all determination: I have a strong conviction about this and it is a strong conviction that this is how we are able to save many children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u220	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Augustine volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u221	Minister, I will refer to the words you have said here, setting an example for yourself and other parents. Well, my question is, what kind of responses do you expect, and what kind of undertakings would you take if you found out that someone like that lives in the same building, let's assume, the block in which you live? I'm asking because I'm worried that we don't sometimes favor some kind of self-righteous situation. And here's the question. 'Cause you're saying we'd defend ourselves. How? [[Thank you, Senator... please.]] That's the first question. And second question. I set an example here, Minister, teenagers, but in the light of the law, already adults, because 17-year-olds who were sentenced to 2.5 years of age. The conviction for the crime will be erased after a few years, and the registry will be for 10 years, that is, in the light of this register they will continue to be criminals, although under the law there will actually be a blackout and they will no longer be criminals. How does this apply to the institution of this crime-stricken conviction? Because it, I understand, has some function to make sure that the one who made the mistake of his life, even the tragic one, even the disgusting one, doesn't go along with it all his life. What do these two issues look like? What happens when the fuss occurs earlier, and the registry says they're still criminals?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u222	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u223	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Mr. Senator! As far as the first part of your question is concerned, namely the risk associated with the possible lynch of such a person, if diagnosed, I would like to say that such a debate, also very widely, took place in countries where such solutions were introduced, particularly in the United States, where this register is the widest, hardest, public in its entirety. And after years of experiential experience, it was found that such events did not occur. I want to say it at the same time. If you ask me what I would do, what my family could do. We're dealing with situations like this, you don't have a baby by the hand all the time, although that's the obvious way... But if, for example, a new neighbor shows up and offers a baby candy, etc., then if my wife knows it's that neighbor, she'll be careful. Is this valuable information, or is it valuable? I think it is, I'm sure it is. [[Move out, that's the first thing...]] At the same time, I would like to say that even if it were what the senator says, I would like to accept the senator's worst point of view linked to the lynching. This, Senator, when there is a conflict of two values, the value of the perpetrator's safety and the safety of the victim, I personally believe that... [[What then?]] ...must overcome the victim's safety paradigm and I have no doubt about it. [[Potential.]] You can call it what you want, Senator. Children raped by such persons, however, do exist and I am convinced that some of these crimes can be prevented if the State is actively and not passively fulfilling its role. As far as the minors are concerned... Why have we proposed such solutions that create a contrast between the discharge of such a man from the National Criminal Register and the discharge from this register, which we propose to the High Senate? Well, for one thing, it's because if someone does. At the age of 17, he revealed some sexual tendencies or tendencies towards sexual crimes, unfortunately it is quite unlikely that when he turns 18, they will not appear again. For example, because, as psychologists show, the most sexually motivated crimes are committed when sexual activity is the greatest when these people also have the most strength. On the other hand, I would also like to stress that during this discussion we reviewed a certain view in this area, which is likely to meet the expectations of the senator. Namely, such persons will be strictly and exclusively included in the private register. That is why it will not be possible for the senator to say that they will be completely excluded from social life. No, but they're gonna be under control because I think that control is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u224	Thank you, Minister. I have two questions for you. First of all, what is the statistics of these crimes against sexual freedom listed in chapter XXV of the Penal Code? Because I understand it's not just about pedophilia, it's about rape and all that. What's this statistics look like? Is there an increase or an inheritance? How's it look? That's the first question. The second question is about what you said. Will this type of register also include those convicted of child pornography? Will this group go there as well? Well, let's assume those who do this kind of practice online. apply Will there be only a group of people who have raped or committed any other acts of fornication in relation to another person?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u225	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, As far as the first part of the question is concerned, the rate of sexual crime in this general catalogue of the most serious crimes is increasing, year by year. On the other hand, about the second question about pornography... [[How much could that be in absolute numbers? So we'll be aware of how many people...]] About 2,000, sir. [[A year?]] Yes. In 2014 1 thousand 700... [[A year.]] Yes. [[That's a couple hundred a month.]] About the second question... Well, of course, this law also includes online crime of a pornographic nature, which affects the youngest, i.e. children, minors. Such crime is also criminalized, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u226	Good. I'm the one who's having second thoughts... That's about $2,000, as the Minister put it. Yes? [[A year.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: Yes, a year. 1 thousand 700 in 2014]] Based on the press examples, I thought this was a much larger number. Senator Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u227	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you to explain a situation to me. The proposer provided for a situation in which the court deciding on a particular case may consider that it would not be advisable to publish the data of the perpetrator in the register in the present case, whether for reasons attributable to the victim or the perpetrator. The point is that disclosure of information about a criminal can very often also lead to disclosure of information about a victim. Well, for example. My father raped my daughter, and when we reveal the data, we also do great harm to this little girl. How do we deal with the register in such situations? Does this happen automatically, or does the court have something to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u228	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u229	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, Of course, in every case... In any case, the court shall decide whether to include the person in the register. And we've actually put the possibility of reacting to this situation in the bill. Although I would also like to be clear about such doubts may be few. This will be a really small percentage because we crossed out the names of the parents, the family name of the mother, the age of the minor victim during the act, the PESEL number, the place of residence, the address of the check-in for a permanent or temporary stay, etc. This is a very good question, but I would like to say that we have done everything by taking advantage of the experience of the countries that have put in place such solutions to protect them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u230	Minister, I'd like to ask because this is an important problem. In the current state of law, can the court convict and at the same time decide that the person in question will not be placed in a criminal court register? Is that even a possibility? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: In the National Criminal Register?]] Yeah, the name of the convicted person. This is a reference to Senator Ryszka's question. Is it possible that a person is convicted and the court decides that he is not registered in a criminal register? It seems to me that it does not seem that a conviction means placing in a criminal register, and placing in a criminal register means placing in those registers that we are currently discussing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u231	Dear Marshal, the National Criminal Register acts as a vending machine if we are talking about criminal offences, and this register is a separate instrument. We do allow the possibility that... there may be a special category of people you mentioned in the sanatorium, who, because of the particular circumstances of the crime, need to be protected. That's why we've given the possibility of a court in exceptional circumstances. I would like to stress that these are exceptional situations. For the sake of the victim, he could have made such a decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u232	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have mentioned that it often happens that these penalties are small, that there are even surprising decisions of the court. Does the Ministry plan to change these penalties so that they are more severe, more deterred than ever before?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u234	Dear Marshal, We analyze this possibility, but this discussion is more difficult. If we would like to have such an academic discussion about how the Polish system of judgments works in this area... Even if a criminal code in certain categories of crime offers opportunities, I would say a very harsh conviction of a criminal, the courts often make different decisions. Practice shows that, as he is seeking early release, it is customary that such consent is given. In practice, too much crime goes to prison for a few years. Right? This is a broader problem than the mere problem of the legislator's action, which is a problem of the case-law and probably only in some way affects this discussion. Of course, in the Ministry of Justice, we examine the rules of the Penal Code. I don't rule out any changes, but for now we want to do what we can do and what we can do quickly. That's why we're proposing this register.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u235	Thank you. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u236	Minister, there will be perpetrators in the register, so I understand, for the last 10 years, that is, the register, I would say, will work backwards. We have doubts as to whether the police and the justice system will manage, and in this way we want to defend ourselves. To this end, we create this register and these threat maps. I would like to ask the Minister what is to be found on these maps of sexual crime threats. We're talking about the public part. What am I gonna read from this map? Is this map gonna turn this red light on and I'm gonna know that this neighbor on my street is... Will I be able to figure that out on the basis of this map? If not, it doesn't make sense to me that we're going through maps like this. Of course, the police should have such maps, they should know, and above all they should react and warn us. My doubts are about what will be found on these publicly available threat maps.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u237	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u238	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, the map is, let's call it, a new instrument that we, as legislator, want to give to the police. This instrument will allow for a more effective search for perpetrators and the fight against sexual crime. How the map will differ from this register, which we could theoretically also impose on topographical positions. First of all, there will be differences in the fact that there will be found and crimes detected and undiscovered, i.e. criminals and detected and undiscovered, and therefore the police will receive additional guidance. If we put it together with information that at the moment the police do not have a separate geographical, topographical tool that cataloguing sexual crimes, then... I personally believe that this can be a very effective tool. If we had gone back in time, High Senate, and remembered the knowledge of such a famous criminal, perhaps from Bytom, who in the 1970s... [[Carrots.]] Yeah, yeah. Perhaps the senators remember how this criminal was detected, which no one was able to detect. Well, they started putting crime scenes on a map, and somebody looked... Turns out these locations correspond to the route of tram number six. Right? Hence the name of this special team, which was supposed to be called the 6th. A group of investigators started driving tram number six, and that's how they caught the criminal. So when we ask ourselves, is it important that we impose very specific crimes on specific places on the map... This is a tool used around the world, very useful police and often necessary to detect a criminal. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u239	You can, but I'd like to join... [[I'd just like to make up for it, 'cause...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u240	Minister, you said this is an effective tool for the police, which we all agree with when we sit here. There is no doubt that this is an effective tool for the police, but the question arises: why should this map be made public? As I understand it, I'm not the one who's going to analyze who took tram number six from that bus stop at that bus stop because it's a police matter. And for her, of course, it's a great tool. I'm sure the cops already have that kind of tool, and I think they're using it because I can't imagine not doing it that way. What will make this map public? As I understand it, this map must be equipped with details that are important and relevant to the police. And if it's going to be the same map we're going to be able to use, which we're going to be able to look into... I don't think that's the right proportion. If this public map is supposed to be different and it's supposed to be marked, like I said, just some places... Information about the fact that in some area, I do not know, Warsaw, Poznań or other city is more dangerous in my opinion it does nothing. Hence the question: why burden the police with the task of running a public map when there is no justification.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u241	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u242	For example, sir, to the police... As a legislator, we have not so far imposed an obligation on the police to use such tools, but since we are having a broad debate about the fact that we have a sexual crime problem and have to do something about it, we are presenting various instruments that work in other countries and work there. Suppose the senator lives on 1st May Street in Kalisz. If you suddenly see that on such a map around 1 May there are six crimes, where the criminal remains undiscovered, will it be valuable knowledge for you or not? Because in my opinion, yes. [[We need to move out.]] [[He's gonna stop coming out.]] [[Right.]] This is, of course, theoretical consideration, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u243	It's not just... it's not with crime maps at all... [[Don't do anything. Don't do anything.]] I just want to point out, Minister, that... when I hear about the various crime maps to be revealed, I ask myself this question. And I'm going to ask you this: if we have this map, which is not just about sex crimes, and we reveal this map, can it, for example, affect the value of housing, the value of land? Could that be the result?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u244	Mr. Marshal, this is a bit of an academic discussion. I don't feel competent about land valuation, but... [[No, this isn't land valuation...]] ...in logic, it could be assumed that such information may at the moment matter. Well, I assume that making such information public is just a means to achieve a goal, not a state that will last for decades. Right? If our goal is to catch sex offenders today, we need new instruments. Well, we can always choose castration, of course, but this is a shortcut. This is today's condition, but this is a shortcut. The map is a tool from a category that could be called soft in English, which is really light, but in some situations it can be important, it can be an effective instrument for law enforcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u245	Good. I have a question for you about the article. 27 and the obligation to include in the register data on persons for whom the decision took place before the date of entry into force of the Act. This raises constitutional concerns or concerns about the operation of the law backwards. Can you tell me or remind me what category these crimes will be? Because I understand that these sexual crimes... Whether all sexual offences will be disclosed before the entry into force of the Act, or only certain categories, specific categories, suppose, offences against minors, particularly qualified, with cruelty, etc.? Or is it against all sexual crimes that the law is supposed to work backwards? I'm asking because it's a constitutional problem. How far... to what groups is this right to act backwards?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u246	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for this question. Well, that's actually the problem that emerged in the Western countries that have put in place these kinds of solutions, but which, fortunately, has already been resolved. Among other things, the senator cited the decisions of the European institutions that dealt with the problem of so-called retroactivity. And they point to what? Well, they indicate that registration is an administrative activity, not another criminal measure, another repression, another punishment and is to be preventive. Consider that in our particular case we are talking about a register that is open to special criminals, that is to say, for those who have committed acts with particular cruelty, or those who acted in redecises, that is, no rehabilitation has had any effect and once again committed a crime. Well, we can still talk about the principle of proportionality, which, in this case, I'm sure is... I mean, it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u247	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u248	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am speaking because I support this draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats. I support because in the Republic of Poland children are under special protection, which is guaranteed by art. 72. 1st Constitution. This article deals with the protection of the rights of the child as a duty of the State. It also includes the right of everyone to demand that public authorities protect their children from violence, cruelty, exploitation and demoralisation. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also requires States Parties to adequately safeguard the right of the child to live and to protect health. Let me remind you that in the article. 34 States Parties to the Convention undertake to protect children from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse and to take all appropriate steps to prevent the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children. It seems to me that this is also an explanation for this drastic, of course, form, which is the establishment of a register in this law. Sexual abuse against children I don't have to stress it like that anymore. It is a category of crimes of a particularly cruel, brutal nature. Unfortunately, according to the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the Child in Poland, every fifth girl, is about 20%, and every 15th boy, about 6%, under the age of 15, become victims of some form of sexual abuse. The perpetrators of child crimes are both strangers to the child and known to the child, including family members, neighbors, friends. Speaking of family, I would like to add that sexual violence against children affects not only families known as pathological families, but appears in all social groups. It happens that the perpetrators of sexual crimes against children are also so-called. Respected citizens. The rights of minors in this area must therefore be particularly protected and protected. Police data on this issue is also alarming. On average, a child molester is caught every other day, but that doesn't mean they've all been caught. Many manage to avoid being caught red-handed. This already means that the state's previous activity of catching sex offenders and putting them in prison does not quite pass the test. New state action is therefore needed, especially preventive action. That's why this law has quite appeared, as I said, a drastic record of the fight against paedophiles, against sex offenders, but in the only possible way The record of pedophiles. A register that will give citizens, mainly parents, wide access to information not only about the general risks of paedophilia but also about specific people who need to be better protected from their children. Exactly as the Minister and the senator presented it, of course. It's about two registers. A record of paedophiles who are the perpetrators of milder sex crimes available to public institutions and a record of paedophiles, which will already be available to all citizens, where there will be people convicted of sexual offences, paedophiles, with particular cruelty and those who act in a redecisive situation where there is no hope of improvement. But this bill is not about the register itself. We need to think much more about the safety of our children. This in turn combines with knowledge about threats and ways of defending against them. I know that many changes have been made in recent years to legislation aimed at protecting children from sexual crimes. I am thinking especially about combating child pornography. Many criminals, due to the age of the victim, under the age of 15, received e.g. higher penalties. There have also been attempts to establish a pedophile registry, unfortunately the opponents of this sanction argued that we are condemning pedophiles to lynch. In short, the situation of paedophiles, sex offenders, was more regrettable than their victims. In addition to the juvenile sex offenders register, the Act introduces an obligation As has already been said for employers and other organisers in the field of education, education, treatment and care of minors so that they know the map and persons of particular concern. It is also a question of checking whether the applicant for the post is not registered. In a word, child safety must be beyond the safety of a degenerate, a specific rapist, a pedophile. It should be considered a good solution that the designer has provided for an exceptional situation, I stress, in which the court deciding a particular case may consider that it would not be advisable to publish the data of the perpetrator in the register, whether for reasons attributable to the victim or the perpetrator. The point is that disclosure of information about a criminal is unfortunately very often also the disclosure of information about the victim, including the victims of children. Generally speaking, this law has two objectives: prevention and stigmatization of sex offenders. Prevention is e.g. a new monitoring programme for persons convicted of committing such crimes so that they can be treated and stigmatized is the said register. Probably after this law has been passed, Law and Justice will still not have high ratings in criminal environments or prisons, but that is not what we should care about. And finally, the conclusion. Today, as the Minister has already said here, the nature of crime is changing from day to day. A large proportion of illegal acts are committed by means of an online network. This is particularly evident in the structure of sexual crime, including the most dangerous one, because it targets children. This online register is one of the most important elements in preventing child sexual crime. That's what I think. However, I believe that the state cannot stop at this action. Continue to be monitored It's a criminal phenomenon, it's a map of threats, and it's better to protect our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u249	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! We discussed this very actively at the committee meeting. There were arguments and counter-arguments. There is agreement that the phenomenon of pedophilia today is particularly strongly stigmatized. The number of such events, as has been said here, is increasing, although it is difficult to say whether it is growing because it is growing in society at all, or because it is simply said more, it is pointed out, informed and taken up countermeasures. Extremely speaking, I can say, on the basis of the well-known movie "Spotlight" that in Boston the number of paedophile crimes was negligible, but up to a certain point, and at some point it turned out to have increased several hundred times. That is why I think that there is no need to go into any exaggeration in this regard, although of course it is necessary to fight this phenomenon. The Internet actually makes the possibility of making contact or such provocation more powerful than it has ever been. The fact that a separate register is entered in the Act I am talking about a closed register, a limited register, that there is therefore a whole system, you can say, a certain control, a certain supervision in this regard, that is the correct action and I support it. And as for this map, from what I understand, the major novel that requires a statutory definition is That she's supposed to be made public. The fact that the police are making maps for themselves, we know, she's making maps for herself without a bill. This is where there are some concerns about making this map public. I think it's not particularly dangerous, and after a while you can see what the effects are. It will certainly not be such effects that will be irreversible. Therefore, it can be verified. Although, of course, it seems to me that for an average citizen who will look at such a map, whether there have been two cases of sexual crimes or 4 or 5 or 6 in his surroundings will be irrelevant. Because in one case and another, there will be a need for some vigilance, first of all some awareness of how children should behave. Because it's hard to imagine that children will be under the supervision of their parents, especially when they're a little older. So that this issue of raising awareness, above all, of how children are to be in contact with adults, especially adults they do not know, remains a key issue. And this information must be passed on by parents, it must be passed on by the television the children are watching, it must be passed on in schools, in kindergartens. It's obvious. The matter remains open to the register and this is controversial. It is not as Minister Jak said here, and just now Senator Ryszka, that the safety of the child must prevail over the safety of the degenerate. It's a bad case. We shouldn't just let crime happen to anyone. We can't rank it so that such a crime is more dangerous, and others are more dangerous when, for example. They're gonna lynch this degenerate. It's less dangerous. I mean, that leads to some kind of absurdity. American examples... I, with great reserve, generally approach American examples when it comes to penalization. Because when it comes to the constitution, about, let's say, respect for civil rights, etc., that's it. at a high level, but when it comes to penalization, the United States does not shine in this regard. Apart from the fact that they're using the barbaric death penalty, they're using very high penalties, and rape can't get out of prison, we know that. So what if there's a lot of rapes out there, more crime, and he's king over everything? Also raised here and there The point is, if a citizen has a gun, he'll defend himself. And the results, of course, we know. [[I'm in.]] What do you mean, behind what? To have a gun? [[Yeah, a gun.]] Well, thank God you're in the minority... [[I hope you're wrong.]] ...and I hope it stays that way. The American example should scare you away. Everybody's got guns in there. [[I'll give you a Finnish example. I'm sorry, but...]] They all have guns there, and what the results are, we see. So in short, these American examples Let's leave it, let's stick to our European cultural environment. Well, there are closed registers in Europe, limited registers. I agree that it can be assumed that the inclusion in this register of a person who committed such a crime before the entry into force of this law is, however, within acceptable limits. And in this case, the Strasburg tribunal spoke of a closed register, so let's not make it public because he didn't talk about it. But this isn't even about whether it's about the criminal before the bill came out or after the bill came out. It's the open register at all. However, we must try to imagine what this will look like. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid that when we have an open register, and we have an open register... The senator gave names that could be the same and so on. There's gonna be a picture in there. Yeah, there'll be a picture. You can also match different people to the picture. But let's assume that the right person will be identified. Not the one who's not a pedophile. That'd be even worse. Only the right one. And then what happens? We hear that if the parent knows who he is, he'll be more careful that this child will know and so on. I'm sure, but I think there's gonna be something else. Unfortunately, it is a question of some mentality, as well as what we have been experiencing in Poland for many years. Remember what happens in Poland when you want to run a Monaru center for drug addicts or people with AIDS. Protests, letters, delegations, boycotts, pickets, etc. And finally, we have to take this facility down, move it somewhere far away, if it even works. What happens in Poland as soon as there is information that 15 or 20 refugees are registered somewhere, people who carry no danger with them? Protests, pickets, letters... No way. And there are those who will set the doors on fire, and if necessary, the refugees will put them on fire. I'm sorry, but these are very common cases in Poland, and none of these people are criminals. Now let's imagine that this is someone known by name, by name and face, who was a repeater when it comes to sexual crime, or who did such an act not necessarily on a minor... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. I'm done. ...with special cruelty. He won't live there for long, I have no doubt about it. Question is, where's he gonna live? And in the end, there will be a group, so to speak, brave defenders who have their way with him. I'm sorry, but I can't accept that the fact that they're having a good time with him will protect any child. In my opinion, such criminals need to be supervised in a special way, as is being done today. We know that there are methods that are based on the fact that they have to put themselves in a certain place at a certain frequency, they are obliged to take medications that, for example, are required. reduces sexual drive. If they don't, they could be punished again and put in prison. And it's more of those methods... Finally, there was a compromise proposal, Senator Sewerinski, who tabled an amendment at the committee meeting. Well, unfortunately, he didn't meet with the support of his colleagues and, I see, he didn't give up on her at all, but if the Ministry had accepted her, she could have come into force. This amendment said that although the open register is being deleted, the scope of people who can learn about this particular person and use the closed register is expanding. Today, under this law, a natural person cannot do this. The senator suggested that a natural person, if he had any interest in it, This business can be, for example, rely on the fact that she has a child and wants to know if this neighbor is by chance a former paedophile or a convicted paedophile, she had the right to ask. Then the children would be protected properly, and the parents would have the opportunity to... [[Mr. Marshal, 12.5 minutes.]] I'm almost done. Parents would have the opportunity to find out about such a person without announcing it everywhere, including those who would be willing to harm such a person. Unfortunately, this amendment was not supported at the committee meeting, it was rejected. I'm sorry. And in this situation, it is simply difficult to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u251	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many arguments have already come out of the mouth of Marshal Borowski, who participated in committee meetings, these arguments have already sounded, so that actually... Because I wanted to... I didn't know they were gonna die. But let me make this short: indeed, there is no doubt, Minister, that your speech... that the ratio legis is very convincing and that the introduction of the register is necessary. The instrumentarium must be extended to prevent, prevent, in my opinion, these very hideous crimes, which are very negatively assessed not only by society, so to speak, active, but also in the prison environment itself. And here's a nuisance to Senator Ryszka's speech, who said that the PiS wouldn't benefit from the above-mentioned support in prisons, but he doesn't care. Oh, no. Prisoners generally call such criminals... They say they're sitting behind so-called panties, that's what they call it. And the prisoners also judge them very negatively. Prison service, I know this because I am very interested in protecting such people from... [[Not always.]] No, it's very effective now. I know that these people are being protected. I used to have a client. It was years ago, and it was actually followed by such rules, from 15 years ago, which from the arrest of the investigator wanted to just jump, not to save themselves, but to protest. Because he was just being bullied. And it was common. There are no such situations at present. But, of course, the assessment is negative. The crimes we're talking about here are disgusting crimes. There's no question about that for anyone. It's a good thing the police are using provocations on the Internet and picking up pedophilia, very good. And, ladies and gentlemen, as Marshal Borowski said here, the problem is in the public register and only in it. I agree with the Minister that, indeed, with regard to the issue of the lex retro non agit principle, it was explained by the judgment of the Strasbourg Court concerning the dispute with France. Okay. I just want to emphasise: there, in the explanatory memorandum, it is said that this action does not violate the principles of the European Convention on Human Rights precisely because there is regulation. That's what If there was a public register, it would violate. That is clear, Minister, from this justification. And I have no doubt here. But I also wonder about the effectiveness of this, because in fact there will be no parents' names in the public register, there will be no mother's family name, PESEL number, place of residence, address of check-in, actual address of the stay, there will be only a name, name and photograph that doesn't always correspond to reality, and we know that a person can be heard, i.e. change a little look, hairstyle, add facial hair, etc., which changes the image of a person. In such a situation, if we deal only with a name, will the public register be effective? Isn't there going to be a mistake in this situation? I've had a situation like this. I'm not gonna give you a name. That in one arrest in Koszalin, and I came to see the prosecutor, another arrester with the same name was brought to me. This happened in one arrest in Koszalin. I'm not gonna give you a name, but I remember that until today. Is there not, therefore, an additional danger here, leaving aside those issues which may conflict with the Convention on Human Rights? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since we have a lot of time and we have a very long vacathio legis because we need to prepare this system, should we not prepare it properly already. Of course, this idea needs to be implemented, this non-public register has to be implemented, but this issue needs to be changed, because I believe that this safety valve, which, fortunately, is that the court can decide not to include the name of the convicted person in that register, even for the sake of the victim's interest, but not only... It is so that, in the case of conditional redemption, we also have an obligation to enter the sentenced person in this public register. Ladies and gentlemen, conditional remission of serious crimes is extremely rare. This must already be a minimum role situation, because there are situations... I have defended in many, many cases related to rapes and of course there have been situations such that a minor, a minor, a boy who has barely turned 17, and yet in the case of this type of crime also after the age of 15, he can answer as an adult, with different roles split... The situation was that the boy had to stand outside the door and watch, and if anyone were to go, he would tell him not to bother and his friends to rape him. He was and is accused, and his role was minimal. That's why you really have to give... This is why the court individualizes penalties to stigmatize those who really deserve it, not just because of the automation of legal qualifications. And here we have, as I stress, a conditional termination of proceedings. I haven't met, I'll be honest with you, with a rape case like this. As far as the issue of the public register is concerned, it is very, very controversial. I think there's a time for that, without prejudice to an idea that... [[Mr. Senator, last minute.]] Let me get this straight. This should be changed, and ♪ Like I said ♪ The damage to this law for this reason will absolutely not be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u253	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! Nothing is as outrageous as violent crimes, especially sexual crimes against children. We should do everything we can to protect ourselves from such crimes. It is clear and good that there is this law, because it gives new instruments, it gives the possibility of better action. One of my questions... One point raises some concerns in me, as in the previous speakers. Really an indication of the place of residence of a person who will be included in this kind of register... I'm afraid either I'd move out, or me and the neighbors would make sure that person moved out. There's another way we could walk around with our kid all the time, which no one can do. What kind of life would that be? So I'm afraid of the drastic scenes that are happening right now. Ladies and gentlemen, when my district tried to establish a rehabilitation centre for criminals who were leaving prisons to try to adapt to society, it was such protests, such a dislike that it had to be abandoned. I think such reservations need to be taken into account, especially since even crimes for which the sentence is not as large as those I was talking about... The psychopaths who have repeatedly murdered and the criminal will not be in such a public register, and someone who has been punished up to 2 years in prison will be in this register. How can we rehabilitate him if there's no place for him on earth? It just seems absolutely unrealistic to me, which is why I think that even if there is a blur earlier and the blur is followed to allow a man to live a normal life... If such a man continues to be in the register, it will prevent him from returning to normal. It seems to me that it's badly constructed, and that's why, without getting divorced... Yet, one might ask what is wrong with the families of such persons, as with the children of such persons. I'm sure the Minister will say that the court shouldn't... What if it happens... We, when designing the law, should take into account all the circumstances, including the difficult ones. Minister, I should be commended for this bill, but it is a very serious reservation that drives me to make an amendment and, however, to delete this public register. You say there's no record of this pathology occurring in the United States, but it's been described many times. Many times we have been described that there are such pathologies, complete infamy, complete exclusion, and acts of violence. It's described. It is difficult for me to say how statistically this is a serious problem, but this happens, which is why I think it would happen in Poland with certainty. I propose an amendment to remove the article. 4 and all the provisions relating to it, subject to the condition that, however, if there is an amendment which you proposed, Senator Sewerinski I didn't know about her. That is to say, in order to allow people interested to have access to a classified register. And then I would gladly give up this solution. But I really appeal to the senators to consider that we should not break the laws that are of a completely different legal system, where there are laws... Effectiveness of these provisions 'Cause we have to ask here, Minister, you praised, and yet there is still an avalanche, a mass of this type of crime. So what's it like with that effectiveness? You can have very serious doubts about that. I make an amendment believing, Minister, that using this period, which is still there and which you reminded Senator Zientarski of... Because there's time to think. And in such a form, an absolutely good bill cannot be supported, precisely because of the mentioned defect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u256	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for giving the floor. Minister! High Izbo! It's a good bill, and I'm sure I'll vote for it. I wouldn't be afraid, unlike some of my colleagues, that today we're gonna be pitying and worried about the people who committed the crime, being convicted, and the surroundings are gonna find out that they might be living or living in our neighborhood. I wouldn't be afraid of the price of real estate either. For this reason, the market will not collapse. I wouldn't be afraid they're gonna be lynching, because if it's gonna happen, it could happen in any other case. We know that, too. Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about weapons, access to them in the United States. I don't think there's an obstacle today. - No, it's just legal. In regulating who can be given a weapon, and we know for ourselves, especially after the recent attacks, that there is no problem with the weapon. If someone wants to do justice to someone today, they're gonna do it anyway. If a gun were actually handy, it might be more likely to happen, but no one proved it today. America is a big country and committed crimes are relatively much more, for example because of the size of this country. But this is also a good example of what the Minister said was true and that in America this led to a 60% reduction in these crimes. In fact, at any given moment, I would always brand people who are on the sidelines of the law, not only in the particular case that we are considering today, but, I think, in everyone, because it might have a positive effect. And that's what society expects because normal people don't agree to any acts of violence, to acts of law-breaking. We want to feel safe, we want to live in a normal environment. If such a person were to appear in our environment, it would be worth knowing. It is also worth knowing so that we can protect ourselves and our own children to be sensitive to certain things. So it's an additional information that I wouldn't be afraid of. And if someone's going to be branded in public today in a small environment, because they're going to be sent to him after a conviction by the court, then... I wouldn't be afraid of that. And I will definitely vote for this bill. I also expect the Ministry to increase the penalties for these and other crimes. I know it's not easy, and it takes time, but I'm rooting for it to work. Because in this case, I think, there is no political division. This is a good bill, thank you for it, and I will definitely vote yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u257	Thank you very much, Senator, especially since you fit in the time limit. It's glorious. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. [[Quiet.]] Excuse me? [[Quiet.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Silence. I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator. Of course now Senator Silence, and you are preparing Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! Crimes against the weakest, and in addition sexual, are among the most repulsive and deserving not only of punishment, but indeed of preventive action, which would in particular prevent these crimes from being committed, and especially of the perpetrators who have already committed them. Hence, this solution that we are adopting is as much the answer to the need for the moment as possible and is a solution that is not, I would say, innovative to those that are adopted in the world. However, I am about to say, at which point it is innovative and at which point it may raise some concerns, and if it does not cause concern, it will encourage us to follow it closely in practice after the adoption of this law, so that we can then make some modifications. I would like to remind you first of all that in the world similar solutions, but different from ours, are applied. And so on. In France, this system is used, as was mentioned in the case of Gardel v France, where the Strasbourg Court stated that the register cannot be treated as a punishment and therefore does not apply to it the principle of the prohibition of retroactive action of criminal law, i.e. the application of it to persons who were convicted of criminal offences prior to the entry into force of that register. But I would like to remind you of the important difference there is in our proposal on this point where we are introducing a public register. Namely, in France this register corresponds to our limited register, because it is accessible only to police, courts and similar public bodies, but it is not public, i.e. it is not accessible to everyone. The Court therefore stressed in this case, which concerned not only the principle of retroactivity but also the question of whether such registration does not infringe the Article. The 8th European Convention on Human Rights, which provides for the right to respect for privacy... It must be said openly that such a register, especially of a public nature, is similar to making public the judgment. If a photograph of the perpetrator is revealed, it is revealed what he committed, what he was convicted of, and how high the penalty is, it is indeed a measure similar to what is called additional measures in criminal law, that is, what used to be called additional penalties in the Penal Code. Similarly, in Germany, this register is only available to law enforcement authorities, courts and similar authorities. Only the Minister referred to the United States In the United States, the register is similar to the nature of our register, the public one. And this is where we really follow the United States. Just as I didn't think it was glorious to follow this lead on the criminal procedure, when we put in place an adversarial procedure, modelled on the American system, so also here you have to have, so to speak, a hand on the pulse and using this system, which is very similar to the system in the United States, to watch carefully how it will work. Because the American system has a completely different legal, cultural tradition, a completely different social environment. This is a very restrictive system when it comes to criminal law. I think we all know these famous court rulings from the U.S. courts where you sentence someone several times to punishments that exceed the life span of a man. So that these American designs do not necessarily have to work in Europe, especially in Poland. But, as I say, knowing the differences between the regulations that exist in Western Europe and the regulations that we adopt, modelled on the regulations applied in the United States, I believe that this law deserves to be adopted. This will probably be a measure that, on the one hand, will prevent the perpetrators from going through a redecisive path and, on the other hand, will make it easier for law enforcement and courts to detect the perpetrators and to take preventive action. Like I said, I have some concerns. Senator Borowski also expressed these concerns. Only how it will be accepted in our community. But ensuring that children are effectively protected from these most hideous crimes has a price. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u259	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I fully support the principles of this law and, in general, its shape. I believe that in Poland we should have given greater importance to the rights of victims of crime rather than those who commit these crimes. That is why I will definitely vote in favour of this bill. But I would like this bill, first of all, not to cause too much controversy and to make it feasible, second of all, I mean. so that it can be applied and that there is no problem with its entry into force. That is why I have three comments, two of which, I think, are to be considered by the Minister and a possible response, and one concerns a flaw which, in my opinion, should be eliminated, for example. by adopting an amendment that I will submit. Note 1 concerns the date of entry into force of this law. It is a good thing that there is a long, over-annual vacathio legis and that entities that may come into contact with the operation of this law will not be surprised. Only that the process of implementing this law will actually consist of two transition stages. The first is to build two databases. A register with limited access and a public register On the basis of the Minister's previous regulations, which are usually the biggest problems. Anyway, this kind of problem, I mean. problems of a technical nature, they always appear. It's about the IT system, it's about making these databases complete, transparent, so you can access them online, so that this system just works well. Of course, such databases are tested on some data, let's call it, prepared or exemplary. And the second step is to complete this register with the specific data of the persons referred to in Article. 27, i.e. which have committed crimes before, will of course be selective data. The only question, Minister, is whether, instead of only one date of entry into force of the Act, without prior time limits for the Minister's adoption of regulations, which would allow the earlier construction of the system of these databases and testing it, say, in an external, IT environment... Wouldn't it be advisable... The idea is to enable this system to be tested e.g. six months earlier, i.e. first the law, the implementing regulations, delegations to those regulations that we have, then the actual acts, and how the law enters into force, then we can fill in the system with data, which we are obviously talking about, i.e. data prior to the entry into force of the law, that makes it possible for us to have an article. 27 and then on an ongoing basis those that will unfortunately appear, hopefully in an increasingly smaller number, because this is what this register is about to prevent. So it's about material regulations. To sum up... do you not think that the Minister should be exempt from the date of entry into force of the Act, so that the regulations, say, technical regulations that allow the adoption of implementing regulations and the construction of the database, will enter into force earlier? Just doing the technical tasks you're facing. The second issue is related to the subject-matter of the law, actually in question, but that is partly also subject-matter. Well, in material regulations... I want it to be clear, about the public register, because it raises the greatest controversy, he will be the most, I would say, observed, any mistakes or stumblings in its implementation will be used against this law. In advance, I'd say it's illegal. The question is: is it really the intention of the legislator to have the subjective scope, as regards material provisions, for persons whose data will be entered in the public register referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) It is about the data of persons who will be kept in the public register and who differed from the subject-matter of those who have previously committed certain crimes and which are referred to in Article 2. 27 are otherwise defined? It's all about art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2. Here's the reference to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) a and lithium d. Lithium. and consumes part of the subject matter range from Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2, lit. ♪ And so, and in addition, these ranges do not overlap in their entirety, they kind of run off a little bit. Perhaps it was the intended legislative procedure. Then you can agree with it, but, as I say, it gives rise to some anxiety. Finally, the last question, the third one, and I will therefore be making amendments. Well, it's about art. Paragraph 7 3; the data to be included in the public register, i.e. publicly available, are indicated here. But unfortunately... Well, this article was healed, among others. by the amendments that have been tabled by the Ministry and which we already have... accepted by the committee. Well, in the original wording of the mouth. Article 3 7 persons from the restricted access register were to be included in the public register. These are two different registers. The register of people with limited access, I shoot, it can be about 10,000 people, and the public register will of course be much narrower, it will be, I shoot, 100 people. So what's the point of putting in the public register the data of persons from the restricted access register, using this scope in the article, in the paragraph that speaks about the public register? It was in the original text in general, and after Amendment 2, which, as I said, the committee accepted, is already somewhat healed, but still in the public register, I quote, it is mentioned in the paragraph. 1 and 2 data on the person entered in the register referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 points 1 and 3. A. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 (1) is the data from a limited register, which contains more persons. That is why I propose an amendment that would remove this kind of inaccuracies, because, as I say, this inaccuracy could serve, God forbid, to try to undermine this law. That kind of inaccuracies must be eliminated by me. Now we have time for this. That's why I'm putting this amendment in the hands of the marshal. It's about art. Paragraph 7 3 refer to the scope of the public register and this scope is indicated in Article. Six, but not lips. One, just lips. 2. And one last thing, it's a matter of order. In this text there is still the word "publishing," although it should be "gathering," because the same terms should mean the same thing. In the Act, we use two terms in general: "Gathers and places," which really mean the same thing, but because in the whole article. 7 we use the term, the term "post," so we leave it here. It is then not consistent with Article. 6 because there is a reference to the collection of data, except that I think it does not matter so much, and this amendment, in my opinion, heals the text of the law and makes it more readable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. You're Marshal Borowski for the second time, aren't you? Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u262	I would like to say that I tabled the amendment I mentioned, which was the amendment of Senator Sewerinski. Let me remind you that it is based on the fact that the public register, i.e. just photos and names, does not exist on the Internet, while interested persons, persons who have an interest in it We're talking mostly about parents, they're mostly about parents. They will have the right, which they do not have at the moment, access to the closed register and will be able to find out, obtain information about certain persons, whether or not they have been punished for such crimes. Of course, this solution is not ideal, I am generally in favour of deleting the public register at all, but this is some kind of compromise solution. It is not ideal, because when the parent finds out, it will of course inform the neighbors and as if part of the problem we will still have, but not the whole, because the appearance of such a register on the website will be a kind of sensation, it will be something that immediately everyone will be interested in, including unfortunately also those who like to bring justice on their own. At least we can avoid it. As I say, this is not the ideal solution, but it is a compromise and a guarantee, certainly providing the protection that this was about. This is the first case. The second thing I'd like to say is this. Unfortunately, this is too common practice for us. It is a serious law, legally complicated, it is not simple, it concerns both the type of crime and the data that is placed there, all these maps, etc. I looked at the Sejm's website, the information on the legislative process, and I did not see any external opinions there. We didn't have any of those either. I must say, in the case of such a bill, it should not have happened. [[But the Members had no doubt. They accepted unanimously.]] [[Voice from the room: Former opinions.]] They're not on the seym website. [[Voice from the room: Technical error.]] Maybe this is a technical error. If so, of course I withdraw from this, but anyway it is impossible to reach them, and in the case of this type of legislation, at least they should be here in order for us to know what the opinions of the legal congregations are, so to speak, which they are dealing with every day, including the Ombudsman, in short, those institutions which should absolutely express themselves here. We're a little blind here. Everyone thinks something, maybe he's right once, maybe he's wrong twice, and some things he may not notice at all. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I would like to point out that, with such laws, such opinions need to be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u263	Good morning... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I mean, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Good evening.]] Good evening, yes. [[Anything can happen at this time of night.]] [[We can continue, Mr. Marshal.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. It also informs that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the Senators Rulewski, Borowski, Borusewicz and Florek. [[What about Czerwinski?]] [[And so is Senator Czerwiński.]] Yes, also Senator Czerwiński. You're right. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth order... [[Voice from the room: We're done.]] Are we done here? [[Voice from the room: Messages.]] Then we'll move on to the messages. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u264	The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee on the handling of applications submitted to the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime, No 129, will be held tomorrow, at 8.15 p.m. in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-senat-16-1.u265	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Good night. [[Voices from the O.R.: Good night.]] [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 46]]
