ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u1	I open the 14th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 31 March 2016, Jerzy Cloud, Senator of the second term, member of the Committee on Initiatives and Legislative Work and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rule of Law, died. Professor Zyta Gilowska, former Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and member of the Monetary Policy Council, died on 5 April 2016. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the dead. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord...]] [[The gathered answer:...and let the eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm adopted at its 14th meeting on 18 March 2016: the only amendment of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Family and Care Code and one amendment of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. In addition, the Sejm adopted the majority of the Senate amendments to the Act amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws at its 15th meeting on 31 March 2016. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 10th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eleventh Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I would like to inform you that I have sent a communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the Commission's work programme for 2016 to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. On 14 December 2015, the Secretary of the Committee for European Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave the Senate the position of the Government on the Communication. It is contained in print No 44. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union took note of the Communication at its meeting on 30 March 2016 and informed me about it. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that on 23 February 2016, the Attorney General provided the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of interviews or an application for an operational control order. It is contained in print No 95. On 3 March 2016, I sent information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information and informed me at its meeting on 5 April 2016. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws After the point on ratification of the creation of the Asian Investment Bank as the fourth point; information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the new agreement for the United Kingdom within the European Union adopted at the European Council of 18 and 19 February 2016, with particular regard to the consequences for Polish citizens of the provisions on social benefits and free movement And to consider him at the point of consent to take responsibility for Senator Robert Dowhan's misdemeanor as point eight. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... I am particularly addressing the High House here. From the sitting to the meeting, the number of items on the agenda is increasing... [[But, Mr. Senator, I asked the question: is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators against accepting the proposal?]] Yes. [[Yes? You're welcome. But tell me to which point...]] To the points concerning Senate resolutions celebrating subsequent anniversaries. [[That's not the question.]] In this order are 3... [[But Mr. Senator...]] But let me continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u3	No. Mr. Senator, I have asked a specific question and I would like to conclude this point, and the senator is preventing me from concluding my agenda. [[Please, Mr. Marshal, if you like small change... this is point four of order...]] Okay, but I'll give you... [[Point four of order...]] But, Mr. Senator, you don't understand that I asked whether anyone was in favour or against this proposal, and you said something completely different. [[He can't talk...]] [[Voice from the room: Now the enlargement is about.]] Do you want to expand, reduce... [[Yes, I want to reduce it.]] But that'll be the question later. [[But if there's an objection to order...]] All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u4	...As a result of which, from the meeting, the order grows by points concerning resolutions The order of today's sitting is, among others. The fourth point is aimed at worshiping events or people especially worthy of Poland or even the world. I think that makes us a kind of IPN or the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. This is not the role of the Senate. And I would ask your marshal to try to systematize it or value it during the process of dealing with today's order and perhaps proposals to supplement it, which may fall after my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u5	Thank you very much. I'll repeat the question: if I don't hear... I have made proposals for additions and if I do not hear any objection, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I don't hear any objections. Thank you very much. Now I ask another question: would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Voice from the room: He's already taken it.]] You've already taken the senator, all right. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 14th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform the senators that, after preparing the committee's reports, the agenda will be supplemented by points concerning the following laws: the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems; the Act on amending the Act on explosives intended for civil use and certain other laws. The Senators, Ladies and Gentlemen, inform that today at 12.00 a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition Leopold Skulski. Pharmacy and statesman. Tomorrow's session starts at 9:00 a.m. with information from the Foreign Minister. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. On the senators' desks were invited to the National Assembly on 15 April this year together with information on the numbers of places occupied by the states in the Earth Hall in Poznań. Senators who declared their willingness to attend the Holy Mass in the Poznań Cathedral were also invited to the cathedral. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the System of Identification and Registration of Animals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 100 and the report of the Commission In print No 100 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 30 March 2016 examined the Law amending the Law on the Animal Identification and Registration System. This law is to implement part of the law of the European Union, the implementing regulation of the Commission of the European Union 2015... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, let's give the senator a chance to hand over the committee's report freely. Anyone who wants to talk, please come to the foyer.]] ...The implementing regulation of the Commission of the European Union 2015/262 of 17 February 2015. This regulation entered into force on 1 January 2016 and we are therefore obliged to implement it in our legislation. The act concerns the identification of equidae. It is intended to harmonise, update and refine the identification and registration system. This is due to the situation that we had a few years ago when horse meat appeared in dietary products, and the European Union decided to clarify, refine and improve the circulation of horses, as well as the circulation of documents, so-called. passports. In addition, the Act introduces the possibility of exchanging information between the Polish Association of Horse Breeders and other bodies, in particular the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. It also clarifies the functioning of institutions that are to be involved in issuing documents, so-called. passports, specify who has these competences, how these documents are awarded, how the circulation of documents is to look and which institutions are to deal with it, also refers to the central database of information about horses and to the handling of documents, and this is one of the most important things in terms of post-mortem and after the disposal of animals. The bill didn't cause any more discussion at the committee meeting. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Ewa Lech. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: No, thank you.]] No. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. The text of the Act is contained in print 106 and the committee's report in print 106 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act on the Safety of Trafficking in Explosive Precursors adopted by the Sejm on 11 March 2016. After its consideration on 30 March this year. The committee requests the adoption of the draft law, together with the amendments. I would like to point out that the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors is very important, especially at the moment, it fits into recent events. This law lays down rules on the functioning of a nationwide system for reporting both suspicious transactions or attempts to make such transactions concerning substances listed in the relevant annexes, as well as disappearances or the theft of significant quantities of substances referred to in that law. During the committee meeting, all issues concerning the specific areas covered by this law, which define the way in which the system operates, were examined quite thoroughly. The 8 amendments propose a number of issues. In Amendment 1 we propose that the Chief of Police may authorise the heads and deputy directors of the Police Organizational Units and Organizational Cells of the Police Headquarters to grant and revoke authorisations on its behalf for the processing of personal data in the reporting system. Another major amendment, Amendment 4, concerns the notification of a suspicious transaction or the attempt of an average user or economic operator to make a suspicious transaction. The notification system shall then also collect the information necessary to identify them, including those necessary to identify the average user, the natural person referred to in Article. 3 of the Regulation or of a person acting on behalf of an economic operator, hereinafter referred to as "customer." Following the discussion, the committee requests that amendments be adopted and that the whole be adopted, as amended by the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz: Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the rapporteur presented all the amendments in detail. We don't have any comments. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of point three... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: There is no rapporteur... but he's on his way.]] The rapporteur is coming... Maybe it will. I'll read... We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement establishing the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, drawn up in Beijing on 29 June 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 103 and the committee's report In print No 103 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place on 15 March, on which we discussed this law. It is a law allowing the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify this international agreement, and it is about Poland joining the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. This agreement was signed by the previous government. As a government representative has informed us, the 2016 budget has secured funds to finance our contribution to the part in which this financial contribution is required. The rest of our contribution will be through certain guarantees... It is a proposal to activate the functioning of our companies, some help for our entrepreneurs to exist in the eastern markets. This agreement, I would say, is mainly associated with China, but has been joined by many countries, including the countries of the European Union. There was no major controversy about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, please. Mr. Senator, you're welcome to go back to the podium. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u12	Mr. Senator, I have two short questions. The first is, is this the fulfillment of the promise that Minister Szczurek, Minister of Finance, once made after his visit to China? 'Cause I remember saying that back then. And the second question is: what concrete benefits can Poland have from joining this bank?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u13	Mr. Senator, it's hard for me to tell if it's Minister Ratchurek, but I suspect... You can see from the date that it was certainly from the time of the previous government, the government Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, and then Mr. Ratchurek was Minister. So I suppose what we are talking about here is the consequence of the agreements signed by Minister Ratchuk. And as for the consequences... Well, it gives us a possibility, it gives Polish entrepreneurs a possibility to appear in the Far East markets. Will it be used and used? Well, it's obviously a matter of the future. This investment bank will operate a little bit like the EBRD. And so it gives some kind of possibility. And whether these opportunities will be used in practice and translate into an increase in trade, we will see. We are opening up a certain possibility with this agreement, this is some facilitation for Polish entrepreneurs. As the representative informed us... I no longer remember if the Ministry... yes, the Ministry of Finance at the committee meeting, will be a representative in China who will facilitate Polish entrepreneurs... And he will also deal with customs matters. Because it's mostly about trade.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u14	Thank you very much, Senator. Is there any other senators who would like to ask you a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State, Minister Katarzyna Kacperczyk of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and your Undersecretary of State, Minister Piotr Nowak of the Ministry of Finance. Would you like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: No.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Katarzyna Kacperczyk: No.]] No. Anybody... Good. You're welcome, Senator Jackowski. Just tell me who, Senator. To the Minister or to the Minister? [[To the Minister, of course.]] That, of course, Minister, would you please come to the stand? And the senator is asking a question. You're welcome. [[But if the Minister wanted to complete the answer, I would be open to such a procedure. If the marshal agrees.]] I agree. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. When I read about this ratification, I read that the amount of the Polish party's contribution will be determined. Would the Minister be able to determine what is the government's contribution to which the Polish party will contribute? And do I understand correctly that this bank will be able to invest, e.g. In Central and Eastern Europe? I mean, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, ? financed by this bank? Am I right or am I right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u16	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I may, if the senator permits, start with the second question, and my colleague from the Ministry of Finance will explain exactly how we pay this contribution, because part of it is paid in cash, depending on the mechanism according to which it is paid within the bank, and part is at our disposal, as is the case with all other financial institutions of this nature. With regard to infrastructure investments in the area of Central and Eastern Europe, the current version of the bank's statutes does not explicitly state that the investments will be carried out in the area of Central and Eastern Europe, but they are largely linked to the concept of a new silk route, that is what the Chinese side refers to as a lane and a route. So a new concept, a new initiative of infrastructure connections, whether it's road, whether it's rail, but also maritime, between Asia and Europe. If the projects that will be implemented and co-financed by the funds at our disposal within the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank would fit into this concept of connections, yes. Of course, they can also be financed by this bank through projects that will be financed. I understand that also all projects in Poland that would fit into this concept of connections will be able to apply for funding as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u18	Thank you very much. Minister, please complete the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! If it's about the premium we have to pay, it's $166.4 million. It was smashed into five installments. One installment is about $33 million. Two instalments must be paid this year First at the time of ratification by the Polish government of the agreement, second approximately in December of this year and three more in the years to come. As far as this year is concerned, it has already been secured in the budget. These contributions, this payment of ours doesn't go into budget deficits at all. From the point of view of public finances discipline, this is on the same basis as our contributions to other institutions. So, from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, there's no problem with that, it's been secured. We can see that when it comes to this contribution that we'll always be able to... The statute lets us if we ever want to get out of this bank, withdraw it, so from this point of view, we're not losing anything. We have this option: by placing money there, we can nevertheless, in this area of the world, which has a perspective, even from a demographic point of view, for a powerful development in the coming decades... It's where the center of the world is slowly moving as far as the economy is concerned. We have, so to speak, a large leverage for our companies to participate in these projects and to mark themselves there as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Stay here, Minister, or you'll ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u21	Minister, I have questions about the benefits of our country, Poland, including the bank, that is the commercial and economic benefits in the future. If you would say a few words about whether we now have any direct influence or whether we will have representatives in the authorities of this bank, what it will look like after we join this bank, after the agreement has been ratified.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u22	It's hard to quantify the benefits. It's completely unquantifiable for the moment. In the Board of Governors we will have a finance minister, in the Board of Directors we will also have a representative, so we will have a real impact on the projects. But I also don't want to overestimate Polish influences, because our share of the bank is 0.84% because it's linked to the GDP of a country. And in relative terms in our constitution, in which among others. is Britain and Switzerland, we are the second or third greatest force and we have a real influence on what the constitution will do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u23	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u24	Minister, and this is a permanent stake, are these permanent seats? Is that some kind of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u25	These are permanent places. [[Fixed seats.]] Yes. [[Aren't they periodic, cadence?]] The term of office is in the constitution... [[Uh-huh.]] It depends on who's in charge of the constitution. But the fact that we have a governor on the Board of Governors is permanent, guaranteed. [[It's guaranteed.]] Yeah, it's unchangeable. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u26	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jackowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u27	Minister, I still have a question about how many countries have to ratify this and when the ratification procedure is closed. 'Cause we're supposed to be... It's 31, as I read in my opinion... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Yes...]] ...states have ratified the agreement. How many countries are parties and what is the calendar of the launch of this great financial institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u28	As far as I'm concerned, 57 countries have applied, and I think more countries are trying, so to speak, to join this bank, but I think the pot has already been closed. In June, at the end of June, there will be a first inaugural meeting, so we would very much like to be able to ratify this agreement before the end of June, so that at the first meeting, this inaugural meeting, we already have our representatives, who could already give direction to future work. And those who are delayed will de facto lose, because certain visions or plans will be undertaken in the first stage of the institution's existence. So when the next 57 countries have ratified the agreement, they will be gradually joined by representatives of these countries as governors or directors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u29	Thank you very much. No more questions. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Nowak: Thank you beautifully.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor... Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I would like to say at the outset that I am very happy with this initiative because, as the Minister mentioned in his answers to questions, we are currently dealing with some re-evaluation in the global world and it turns out that the traditional reference points that have decided what is happening on our Earth are being shifted at the moment. And undoubtedly Asia is now becoming such a leading area of concentration of capital, population and economic potential, economic turnover and innovation, modernity. I'd like to say that this direction, you might say, has already predicted our great tidings Stanisław Wyspiański, first exhibited on March 16, 1901, mentioned in the first act, is mentioned in memorable words. Czepiec, the uncle of the bride, says to the journalist Rudolf Starzewski: "What is there, Lord, in politics? The Chinese are holding on tight? The editor of Krakow's Time answered at the same time asking his interlocutor: "Do you know where China is??? and Czepiec for this philosophically? No, far away, kajsi somewhere far away; and gentlemen do not know that a peasant with a peasant's mind will go, even though it is far away. And here we have the cytoms of the newspapers and the puppy we know. This part of the wedding shows that it is not what we think China is in a country where, let's say, what started in 1979 in general, i.e. changes in a certain economic formula, changes in the functioning of this country, the creation of big economic zones and the inspiration of economic development, is happening only in recent years. China has always been an area... Because we can talk about China as an area that was simply a giant market for itself. In 1810, more than 200 years ago, China's global production accounted for 30% of global GDP. This particular direction is therefore very good in my deep conviction. I am pleased that the Polish government is actively involved in reconfiguration of traditional economic references and searching for new areas for the development of our economy, searching not only for markets but also for cooperation as well as raising capital. I didn't happen to ask the Minister... We have at least a few gigantic infrastructure investments, which, with the participation of finance, for example, could also increase Poland's attractiveness and make our geopolitical position, which was usually treated as a certain feat of God, we were among the various powers that tried to squeeze us... I'm talking about a historical look here. And now it would turn out that really such cooperation, geopolitical location and the fact that the silk trail could pass through Poland and Poland in this work would be of great importance... Building long-term rail links, developing other forms of transport or infrastructure are absolutely necessary. I would like to draw attention to one thing. I had the opportunity to be in the Senate delegation of the Republic of Poland in December 2013 in China during an official visit and I have to share one reflection with the High Chamber. China is a certain culture of symbols, civilization of symbols. As far as economic development is concerned, the political element is still important there. If a country is well perceived by the Chinese authorities, it means another light for business creation. And Poland has an amazing handicap here in the form that I will remind you that we were the first country in the world to recognize the People's Republic of China in 1949. That's the paradox. And on a reciprocal basis, the Chinese embassy has 3 ha of the best areas in Warsaw, and we have an embassy in Beijing, which is located in the best part of Beijing and also takes 3 ha. It shows that we have such, I would say, historical circumstances. They come from a completely different geopolitical situation, from completely different factors... But that's how it worked out. This is an important element in the development of economic strategies, especially in our regions' search for contacts with particular Chinese provinces, because each of these provinces is larger than many of the European Union's average countries. So that it's just... The scale is amazing. And that is why with great interest as a Senator of the Republic of Poland I observe what is happening on the global market, also a certain tactic of China, which is currently being implemented. Please note that China in the international arena is playing an increasingly important role at the moment, also in the Pacific basin, so in this area, which at the moment is the most crucial for the future of the world, slowly, slowly building up its incredibly strong position. And from this point of view, because we have a tradition of Polish-Chinese cooperation... She even, paradoxically, continued in the times of the Polish People's Republic, various jokes about it were at that time, and I will no longer quote them... [[That's a good thing.]] ...because of... [[Good.]] ...political correctness, Mr. Marshal... [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] ...e.g. where the Polish-Chinese border is to be, etc. [[But he still had to...]] But I'm not gonna quote that anymore. In any case, I would like to point out that this is an absolutely important area for economic development. I hope that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło this direction of thinking about the development of our country in partnership Although it is difficult to say that such a partnership with the Chinese side, and we have something to appeal to when it comes to the traditions of this cooperation, it will use it because it can be a remedy for many of our problems and a certain composition of the European market. This direction needs to be developed as much as possible. So I am glad that such an initiative was created, and very well congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 131 and the report of the Commission In print No 131 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Krystian Probier, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to submit the results of the work on the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law. This discussion, which I intend to refer to you here, was held at a joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment. This law of 1 April, which the Sejm unanimously passed There were no votes against, and no one abstained from voting, although it was April 1st, is a very serious law. This bill kind of... Amendments to the Act should, from the outset, remove the interpretation doubts that arose during the application of the Act in practice. They meant difficulties for the Minister, who was involved in issuing or awarding concessions for activities consisting in the exploration, recognition and exploitation of hydrocarbons. As I said just a moment ago, this law is mainly modeling, a little formal, but it should greatly facilitate the Minister's work in issuing these concessions. The discussion that took place at the committee's meeting was basically about the legislator's comments. However, the Legislator did not have any proposals for amendments, but only drew attention to certain dependencys, on the fact that in these amendments there was something that could actually have been applied before. Mr Jędrysek here spoke in the discussion, who said that the proposal for amendments to this law was based on real economic activity; many things are uncertain there. This is particularly true for about 30 concessions, which are as if they were in progress. The Minister was not sure that those provisions which he had to take into account in his activities had sufficient effectiveness and legal force. That's basically it. I must say that, during the vote that took place at the meeting, these comments, the amendments presented by the Minister, were unanimously adopted. And that is the conclusion of our committee. That's it. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of the Minister, the country's chief geologist, Mariusz Orion Jędryska. Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Yes?]] You're welcome. Welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The case is short, of course, but very important. The government fully supports the parliamentary proposals. This will allow, I hope, at a rapid pace, to grant concessions to those who look forward to it the longest. The legal gap created by the previous parliament has caused that, in fact, at this moment, we cannot issue concessions for those who are waiting for the longest. Now these concessions can be issued immediately, because even the vacathio legis has been shortened and on the day of the announcement... So we, the government, are determined to accept all these changes. Just a correction to Mr Probier's statement... Excuse me, Senator Probier. It's not gonna make the government's work any easier, it's gonna make it harder, because we're gonna have to issue more concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u35	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 120th anniversary of Kazimierz Kuratowski's birth The leading representative of the Warsaw School of Mathematics. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee, and is included in print No 82, and the report is published in print No 82 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Józef Zając, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present a resolution on the 120th anniversary of Professor Kuratowski's birth. The American Academy of Sciences leads a specific ranking I mentioned this once. A list where those who have made breakthrough discoveries that have changed much in the world or changed our view of the world are permanently listed. On this list so far there are three Polish names: Mikołaj Kopernik, Jan Maria Hoene-Wroński and known to all Stefan Banach, a representative of the Lviv math school, a group of scientists who, during the interwar period, so far developed scientific research that, you can say, the rest of the world was no longer visible because it remained behind. Kuratowski is one of the five who formed the basic Lviv group, although later, when the cathedral of mathematics was abolished at the Lviv University of Technology, he moved to Warsaw and worked here. He's the creator of one of the five basic fields of mathematics, so-called topology. The science, which has explained a lot, has solved a number of issues that have been unclear or ambiguous for scientists in neighbouring areas. His student, Ulam, received a patent for a hydrogen bomb in the United States. It turns out that the mathematical tools that were necessary to trigger the nuclear explosion were already developed in Lviv, only, as well as other cases related to this type of weapon, were very discreetly guarded. After the war, Kuratowski creates the world's first digital machine institute in Warsaw. She is the person who, apart from Stefan Banach, made the biggest contribution to the development of Polish mathematics. And we want to celebrate this year with a conference dedicated to Kuratowski. Within two weeks of the first announcement of this conference, only 18 entries were received from Japan. There's something very interesting to know. And maybe we're talking about this for the first time in public. During the war period, exactly in 1940, when the Germans could not cope with the development of the theory of the nuclear explosion, they turned to Kuratowski, who was then in Warsaw. He was invited to visit the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin. And here is a curiosity: the Warsaw AKs very intelligently rescued him from this visit, infecting him with a disease that was already an antidote, and it was typhus. In turn the Germans were particularly afraid of typhus, and they spent huge amounts of money on research at the Weigl Institute in Lviv and it was there that the vaccine was developed. Of course, Kuratowski later received the vaccine, and the Germans somehow forgot about it. But what was that all about? Well, one of the German scientists realized that probably Kuratowski's work was the answer to how to trigger a nuclear explosion. And the Germans had 18 bombs. So you can imagine what could happen if they had knowledge of how to trigger a nuclear explosion. Ulam was the first PhD student to receive Kuratowski in the U.S. The first patent related to the triggering of a nuclear explosion has had a significant impact on the work of the nuclear bomb. In view of the fact that Kuratowski's name will appear this year on the list of candidates to be included on a special list led by the American Academy of Sciences, I ask that we give our support to the efforts that we are starting, so that the fourth Polish scientist from all of them, who have appeared in various fields, is on this list. And it looks like we have a chance of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u37	Thank you. Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and the authorised representatives of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Józef Zając to represent them. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Senator, how much time do you need? [[It'll only take three minutes.]] Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I speak with great humility because we have outstanding historians in the Chamber; but I also remember the recent statement by Senator Rulewski, who had doubts about whether such resolutions should be taken. Well, I have no doubt that the character we want to celebrate with this resolution today is extremely outstanding. But it must also be said that our achievements in mathematics and mathematics were mentioned here by the Warsaw School, and we also know about the Lviv School, and Professor Kuratowski was also associated with the Lviv University of Technology. They're extremely important. Besides, the Lviv itself is an important place. Semper fidelis. I personally feel connected to him because my wife's father came from Lviv. Moreover, another resolution today concerns the Lviv vows. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I would like to say that mathematics is a very important issue at all, and I think that this resolution, apart from honoring a person, also raises an extremely important subject, because we are thinking, above all, of a broad education. We are at the stage of building an information society, a knowledge-based economy, and that is a great challenge. And we would like as a nation, as a country, to participate in the latest technologies, including the production and processing of knowledge, because this is where the biggest revenue will be, and this is associated with creativity, with interdisciplinaryness, with non-standard thinking. That's why it's important that math is back on high school. And it's important that the canon of education is much, much wider. So that the IT guy knows history, because then he's a better IT guy, and so the historian knows physics, because then he's a better historian. Achievements of Polish Mathematicians I don't want to go into the details anymore, because Senator Zając here was talking about the details... But I will remind you of two very important elements. Enigma, what the Poles have done, which is hidden under the short code name Enigma, is a huge effort that has a great impact on the history, the history of the world. And this, unfortunately, is taken from our nation. And the second case, less known than Enigma, are the successes of Polish decryptors during the Bolshevik War 'Cause we know all the messages were decrypted before. Therefore, in honor of these great representatives of science, we treat this matter also as a specific will for the young generation, also important for taking care of Poland's position in the world, because this position is being built in many different elements. Today we worship the character mentioned here, we present her work as something wonderful, as what we should appeal to beautifully. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 12 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u40	High Izbo, resume. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of the fifth item: second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 120th anniversary of Kazimierz Kuratowski's birth The leading representative of the Warsaw School of Mathematics. We continue the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bear. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I took the liberty of speaking at this point because the character of Professor Kazimierz Kuratowski is a really outstanding figure. I'd like to give you a little background, too. We didn't talk about it here. In which such characters as Professor Kuratowski grew up. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the basic school of thought, which started the 20th century in Poland, was called. Lviv-Warsaw school. It was created by Professor Kazimierz Twardowski, a student of Franz Brentano, who was able to concentrate a crowd of intellectuals around him, and these are the intellectuals of the highest flights, those who were considered to be the world's intellectual leader. Just name a few names of the people who created this school, and they were in the peak period of over 80. They were people like Kazimierz. Ajdukiewicz, Tadeusz Czeżowski, Tadeusz Kotarbiński, Stanisław Leśniewski, Jan Łukasiewicz, Zygmunt Zawirski, Stefan Baley, Mieczysław Kreutz, Władysław Witwicki, Władysław Tatarkiewicz, who formally did not belong to this school, but worked very closely with it, whether Roman Ingarden or Henryk Elzenberg. Twardowski created a school that did not focus only one discipline. She focused scholars, you can say, all disciplines, because from this school came outstanding logicians such as Leśniewski or Łukasiewicz, but also very outstanding psychologists such as Baley, such as Kreutz, such as Witwicki, let alone philosophers who specialized in various philosophical disciplines. And just from this school, from the Lviv-Warsaw school, this math school was born, which is also called the Warsaw school, because it was Leśniewski and Łukasiewicz, outstanding logicians, and their disciple Alfred Tarski, who went into the history of world logical thought. To this day, the multi-value logic of Łukasiewicz or the classic definition of Tarski's truth are elements that students around the world are learning. Next to this school there was a Lviv-Warsaw school of mathematicians. It is very characteristic that these environments crossed over, supported each other. In this Lviv math school there were such outstanding mathematicians as Stefan Banach, Hugo Steinhaus, Stefan Kaczmarz, Stanisław Mazur, Stanisław Ulam, or the world's leading math. Senator Zając mentioned that Stanisław Ulam was one of the main creators of a fusion bomb in the United States and participated in the Manhattan Program. He worked closely with Richard Feynman, Enrico Fermi, the world's leading math and physics. It is also worth emphasising one thing. Looking at this historically, building a certain historical policy, it is worth to look at the fact that this contemporary leading Polish intellectual thought had nothing to accuse itself of when it comes to the world. In fact, the Lviv-Warsaw school was established 20 years before the famous Vienna Circle, der Wiener Kreis, which at the time was considered the leading intellectual thought of the world. Similarly, the British study school with Bertrand Russell, George Edward Moore and Alfred Ayer, one might say, was not even able to match the thoughts of the Lviv-Warsaw school. The contacts that these schools had in the world resulted in the fact that Polish science in the interwar period was at the forefront of world science. I think it is worth mentioning at this point, when we are talking about Professor Kazimierz Kuratowski, also about this foundation, about this huge intellectual machine which was in Poland then and on the basis of which such outstanding personalities as Kazimierz Kuratowski grew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u42	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u43	This time from another position, Mr. Marshal. In some sense, I would like to apologize to everyone for Mr. Rulewski's speech, because it got a little cold after that. It seems to me that what has been said here is sufficient justification that we cannot think in the way that he thinks we must also remember the great things that our citizens can accomplish. I'd like to share something very private. Namely, I have here. A copy of your doctoral degree. And there's something here that I haven't attached any importance to for a long time, namely the signature of Professor Kuratowski, who was the chairman of the Scientific Council, before which I took the exam. And the exam was a problem. Well, he hooked me up in the hallway at the Mathematical Institute in Sniadeckie, where I was a PhD student, and he said he wouldn't ask me in front of everyone. Well, it got a little cold that he's gonna ask me separately, so do I agree. Well, I said I'd agree, 'cause who wouldn't, right? He's the one who says, "You're welcome tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. When I came he said, "Well, you'll be taking the Lviv-style exam; even it sounded a little soft. I heard something about that. The point was that the exam lasted from 9 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. and various questions were asked from various fields of mathematics and a little bit of physics asking me to tell you how I would approach these problems or how I would solve them. If I didn't know, he would go to the board, and sometimes he didn't know in some cases what to do, and then we would end up talking about it, and there would be another question. Then I was invited by the professor to lunch at the bar at half three. At the time, it was considered normal. But from today's point of view, I can only say that I was lucky enough to have a personal contact with something that was already passing away, because the professor died two years later, probably 81 years old. Forgive the privacy, but I wanted to share such memories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u44	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Nobody's ever made a speech to protocol. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems and consider it as point seven of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws and consider it as item 8 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 360th anniversary of the Lviv Weddings. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 84 and that the report is in print No 84 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u45	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour and pleasure to present the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the 360th anniversary of the Lviv Weddings. At its meeting on 9 March 2016, the Commission examined, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of a uniform draft resolution annexed to it. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Apart from the religious nature, the Lviv vows of King John Casimir also had a social dimension. The situation of the Republic of Poland at that time was very difficult and complicated. The constant invasions of Moscow, Cossack troops, and in 1655 the apogee, the invasion of Swedish troops caused the country to be plundered, devastated. Only the defense of Jasna Góra, Czestochowa, and specifically the monastery on Jasna Góra, made King John II Kazimierz read it as a sign of Divine Providence and decided to return from Silesia of Opole to Lviv. The lions at that time were In fact, the only city within the then borders of the Republic, where there were no foreign troops. And there, along with his court and several senators, he decided to entrust our homeland to the Blessed Mother. It happened on 1 April 1656 in the Lviv Cathedral in front of the painting of Our Lady of Grace. The Holy Mass was celebrated by the archbishop, the apostolic nuncio Pietro Vidoni. King John II Kazimierz Vasa, after his sermon, kneeled on the steps of the altar, insignia of the king's authority, that is, scepter and crown, and read in complete silence the text of the vows which were prepared. Then the bishop of Kraków Andrzej Trzebicki did so, and the faithful people gathered in the temple and around the temple repeated the text of the Lviv vows. That is how they were defined, then probably not yet, but that it happened in Lviv, so that's how we define them today. And it became an extraordinary thing, because here we are a week after entrusting our homeland to Our Lady of God, Divine Providence, Polish troops are successful in fighting, defeating Swedes. The King again reads this event as a sign of God's providence. In the Jesuit church in Lviv, under the leadership of the Nuncio of the Apostolic Pietr Vidoni, there is a Holy Mass celebrated and for the first time in the history of our nation in the Loreta litany added or answered the invocation of the Queen of the Polish Crown, pray for us. And it goes on to this day. It should also be added that the next king, John III Sobieski, when another Turkish storm threatened Europe and Poland, also entrusts our homeland with God's absolution. After his victory at Vienna, he utters famous words: I came, I saw, God conquered. I will refer to the events of 1920 when the Bolshevik storm threatens Poland and Europe. General Haller then asks the Polish Episcopate to pray for a new eight-day anniversary, and asks Pope Benedict XV for a blessing The pope's blessing. And for the prayer of the Rosary. The Bolshevik troops were defeated and forced to retreat on 15 August 1920. This battle is called the Miracle of the Vistula River. Why am I talking about this? At that time, the Vatican diplomat was the apostolic nuncio Achille Ratti, who, as the later Pope Pius IX in 1925, established the feast of Our Lady of Poland and his ecclesiastical power, states that on 3 May this feast is celebrated to this day after Poland regains independence, together with the subsequent anniversaries of the adoption of the Constitution of 3 May. We should also mention the events of 1956, when the Primate Wyszyński who has been imprisoned for 3 years on the basis of Lviv vows writes new vows, which are read in 1956 at Jasna Góra on the feast of Our Lady of Częstochowa. This celebration gathers a super-millionth of believers, and the Holy Mass is co-celebrated by more than 1.5 thousand priests. It is a great event and religious, and patriotic. This three hundred and sixty anniversary takes place in this special year 2016, in which we will participate in the celebrations of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. And one more thing to mention here: the year 1016 is the Year of Mercy announced by the Holy Father Francis, who will be hosting Polish lands this year, will meet with young people from all over the world and will pray with them. Therefore, in this particular year, on this three hundred sixty anniversary of the Lviv vows, I ask the High Senate to adopt a resolution, the content of which is as follows. On the 360th anniversary of the Lviv Weddings, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the Ancestors, who, in the face of the drama of war and the invasion of foreign troops, found salvation and hope, putting themselves under the care of Our Lady, in the cross of Christ, finding courage and a pattern in consecration to the Homeland. On 1 April 1656 King John Kazimierz made vows in the Cathedral of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Lviv, an act of entrusting the Homeland with the care of Our Lady, which was proclaimed by the Queen of the Crown of Poland. The Swedish Flood and the previous long-term wars with the Cossacks and Turks led the Republic to the brink of collapse. The country was occupied and deserted by foreign armies, and King John Kazimierz was forced to go abroad. Only the defense of Jasna Góra restored hope in the hearts of Poles. During that time, the king set out from Silesia to Lviv to take the trouble of picking up his subjects to fight. It became clear to the ruler and his accompanying rulers that appealing to the help of Our Lady and putting the Republic under her care could stimulate society to fight the invaders and restore freedom of the country. The oath was filed by King John Casimir in the presence of church leaders, senators and nobles. In his vow, the king not only gave his homeland under the care of Our Lady, but also promised to improve the situation of peasants and townspeople. The author of the text of the Lviv Weddings was St. Andrzej Bobola, and their great advocate became the papal nuncio Pietro Vidoni. Lviv's vows were a religious act of great rank and deep significance, demonstrating the authentic attachment of our ancestors to faith in God. It was also an event of great political importance. The belief in Our Lady of the Republic in such tragic times strengthened Poles and became an impulse for the victorious struggle for freedom. Thanks to the nationwide uprising, foreign troops were defeated and peace restored to their homeland. The act of entrusting Poland to Our Lady was important not only to witnesses of those events, but also to subsequent generations of Poles, who, until present times in difficult times for the Homeland, referred to the care of the Queen of the Polish Crown and from faith in her help, drew strength to fight for independence. Therefore, Jan Kazimierz's Lviv Weddings are considered one of the most important for our history and self-determination of religious-political events. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u46	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As already said by Senator rapporteur and chief initiator of the resolution, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, 2016 is the year in which the anniversary of an exceptional event recorded on the pages of our country's history is celebrated. In 1656 John Kazimierz made a vow in the Cathedral of Lviv's Blessed Virgin Mary in the Octave of the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary, taking her as his patron and queen. The history of Poland in the 17th century was marked by many disasters and cataclysms of war, which became permanent into the awareness of our compatriots. Warfights have repeatedly caused not only national, but also individual human dramas, which, as a result of widespread warfare, affected mainly ordinary families. Dramas affecting Poland reached their apogee in the middle of the century, during the so-called Swedish Deluge, when numerous skirmishes in various parts of the country consumed many casualties among the army, as well as among the civilian population. The vast advantage of Swedish troops caused that each of the tactical successes on the battlefield was treated as a hope for victory, greatly motivating the nation to fight and awakening its spirit. During this difficult time for the Polish nation, great victories of our troops were recorded by history as legendary events. Wonderful defense of Czestochowa or Lviv's defense in the consciousness of the compatriots of that time were treated as visible signs of Divine Providence and under these difficult circumstances were evidence of God's direct intervention Through and intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary And his care. Historians of the turbulent 17th century have always emphasized the role of the ruler, John Casimir, who, during the Flood, took up the challenge of an unequal and unconditional fight against the Swedish invader. Today's storms, which at that time changed the course of our history very dynamically, directed Jan Kazimierz to Lviv, a city which, after spectacular defense from 1655, served as an informal capital of our country. It was there, in the Catholic Cathedral of Lviv, that the ruler said the words: "Great God-Man Parent and Miss Most Holy! I, John Kazimierz, by the grace of your Son, the King of kings and my Lord, and of your mercy the king, falling down to your most holy feet, today I choose you as my Patron and the Queen of my countries today. And myself, and my Kingdom of Poland, the Lithuanian, Russian, Prussian, Mazowieckie, Szmudzne, Inflantic and Chernichovic armies of both nations and peoples of all your peculiar care and defense I commend and for your help and mercy in this unhappy and unpleasant kingdom of my standing against the enemies of the Holy Roman Church humbly beg. This event perfectly fits into a series of events, which since the beginning of the Polish statehood, being milestones of our history, defined our consciousness as Poles and Catholics. Milestones, which, despite the sometimes cruel injustice of history, gave us hope, becoming perspective and motivation for the often unequal fight against the invader or the occupier. The history of the Polish nation is a history of recurring enslavements and laborious attempts to free themselves from the influence of strangers. The 17th century Swedish Deluge was no different. Many times on the pages of our history were recorded the victories of our troops, which could not be explained merely by logic. Many times, despite much less military capabilities compared to the invaders' forces, we have been able to prove our national determination and to take on important victories which, as a result, guaranteed our country's independence. Many times also those determining the fate of Poles showed gratitude for the miraculous graces that flowed to our compatriots during difficult times of struggle. An excellent example of trusting the fate of the entire nation is the Lviv vow of Jan Kazimierz. We, senators of the Republic of Poland, holding the legislative power and shaping the opinion of our entire society, must not forget moments of great moments of glory recorded in our history. We must also guard the good witness, the testimony of historical truth. We must influence the spirit of our nation by raising the profile of our history. Let us not forget that in all circumstances and at all times it should be strong. It should be strong, that in the moment of danger each of us, with the help of Providence, should be ready for heroism and great deeds. The three hundred sixty anniversary of the Lviv vows is the right time for us to think about the condition of our nation and our place in Europe. Finally, I would like to thank once again the senator, who was the initiator, namely Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk for such a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u48	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Next Friday and next Saturday in Lviv, university and cathedral, there will be a conference dedicated to this anniversary. I think I'll meet you there if the senator's going. At the same time, because we have very well-working contacts with the University of Lviv and with Archbishop Mokrzycki, I would very much ask the marshal to authorise it to be taken on behalf of the Senate. There's a voice. Nothing special, just so you can just say a few words about it. I would also like to complete the story presented here about the content of the document that we recently acquired in Chelm. I mean John Kazimierz's receipt for the painting he took from Chełm, going to the battle of Beresteczek. This document was in oblivion, and if it had not been for a message that had infiltrated somewhere, it could have been purchased even for the lowest salary that is paid to us in the country. And that's how we had to fold in so that this document, in excellent condition, could be purchased. And the content of this receipt is something that historians should look at. Because it's practically the first of these kinds of activities or... Then the king's attitude appeared. This painting was accompanied by five other battles. And then with a lot of people... It is somehow so judged that the unseen crowds carried him out after five battles fought by John Kazimierz, or the army of John Kazimierz to the cathedral in Chełm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u50	Thank you. Mr. Senator, we as senators always represent the Senate, and as far as the authorisation is concerned, it is only for the Senate Marshals, so it is for the formal side. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no nation that has no history, and history is always a reality that has come true. On the occasion of today's reflections on this resolution, I would like to say that in my opinion it is extremely valuable to introduce a definition of national identity, which is an element that brings together generations. Dear country, national identity is a kind of multicolored carpet that combines culture, history, and events that show personalities. For French sociologist Alain Touraine, awareness of one's identity is something that connects generations, something that we use in the past to talk about the present. Ladies and gentlemen, will we find a better place to consider the past for the good of the contemporary Republic than the House of reflection, the Senate of the Republic of Poland? Dear Members, today's remarks at the beginning of the session about the fact that it should not be during our resolutions commemorating outstanding people, exceptional events... Well, if we continue to follow this lead, there should also be exhibitions in the Senate hall that resemble outstanding personalities. For me it is, my dear fellows, a deep misunderstanding. It's here in this room that we're changing the present, but we also see the past. This room is a place where we can build a national identity in a free and unfettered way. Dear Lords, the Lviv vows from 360 years ago are one of those events that unite generations, because in fact, when the Republic faced a threat, the Lviv vows and the fight against the flood were a uniting element of people. Religion was a very important element of the nation. And it was then, these 360 years ago, that national identity was built. Dear Member States, by reference to this resolution, I would like to thank the authors very much. The origin of the Lviv vows was really Częstochowa, defending the Jasna Góra monastery a few months earlier. I will remind you, Dear Lord, that the defence of the Jasna Góra monastery took place in November, December, and the Lviv vows took place on 1 April. It was because of the transformation made in the nation that the king entrusted the crown of the Republic of the Most Holy Virgin Mary, who could defend himself against the oppressor, before the Swedish Flood. And it is places such as Czestochowa, like Lviv, that such events testify to our past, build an identity, and this House is a worthy place to honor the memory of the past, but worship it for the present, worship it in order to build national identity and patriotism. Dear Sirs, patriotism is not given to us, patriotism is a task, which among others. We as senators should develop. It is our duty to present, but also to future generations. Thank you so much for this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u52	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. The text of the Act is contained in print No 118 and the report of the Commission In print No 118 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u53	The Commission has dealt with a law which is essentially the implementation of European Union law, which is to bring the law in force in the country into line with EU law. The Commission has tabled amendments during its deliberations. In principle, these amendments resulted from a discussion between the Legislative Office and the Representation or directly the Minister. Amendments are attached. I would like to stress that this is a law which is directly related to the law In a moment, she's going to be procedated. On explosives and in principle its non-application will result in the unlawfulness or expiry of the latter, the non-obligation of the latter. The bill will return to the Sejm with the amendments. [[How did the committee vote on the amendments go?]] In detail? Because it's... [[No, just whether they were accepted.]] Amendments in 11 cases were adopted today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u54	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I would like to welcome Minister Mariusz Haladyj. Hello, Minister. Do you wish to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[Senator Augustine.]] Senator Augustine, please. Minister, I'd like you to come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u55	Minister, the bill did not raise any controversy at the meeting of our special committee, but it seems that the debate is such a moment when, even in the form of a brief answer to the question, it is worth to present what benefits Polish consumers will have after the implementation of all these EU documents into Polish law. Maybe not in particular sectors, but in general: what's in it for us?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u56	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as consumers are concerned, the law primarily increases the safety of turnover by introducing specific requirements for products which are placed on the market in those areas where the Directive so requires. On the other hand, as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, Because this group is also one of the main beneficiaries In turn, the system ensures that the common market is in place, i.e. removing barriers at the level of movement of goods within the EU countries. So the terms and conditions that apply with this bill... So the effect of this law, to say, is that the introduction of a given product into the territory of the Republic of Poland also allows the product to be placed on the market of all countries of the European Union. The CE marking, which will be mandatory in such a case and which will identify the product in question, is used for this purpose, so to speak, to be traded on the market. There's a little bit of a deregulation philosophy here, too. In this way, individual countries cannot create individual barriers to products. This allows traders to introduce these products into the territory of the Union as a whole. At the same time, there is already a certain level of requirements. They will later be further detailed in the regulations on specific sectors. This level will also ensure consumer safety. Let me give you an example of toys. There were sometimes some kinds of bad stories, so to speak, related to their use. These will be certain standards that will ensure minimum safety. And to consumers, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u58	Thank you. I'm asking you a question, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u59	Minister, I'm not a member of the economic committee. I would ask for a slightly longer explanation of exactly what this law is about and what it isn't. Because this is also a project that was included on the agenda today. This is a legal act, as I took a peek, which has six hundred and dozen pages, and yet there are regulations as annexes, I understand. Looks like there's some kind of off-limits to explosives and defenses. I'd ask you to say that, in general, zoom in. It's about knowing what we're going to be voting on in a minute. I understand that it is, so to speak, the implementation of EU directives. But what do they involve?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u60	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u61	Thank you very much. The aim of the Act is primarily to ensure the competitiveness of the economy, but also to simplify the conditions that I have been talking about in answer to Senator Augustine's question, as well as to eliminate the health and safety risks posed by the products. "Whether in the workplace or in the environment or in respect of property" It is precisely to protect consumers and to remove administrative barriers. These exemptions we have are governed by separate legal acts. For example, the Act on Explosives, which will be at the next point, regulates an autonomously certain area. The law which we have passed to you is primarily governed by the rules and conditions for the marketing of industrial products. Indeed, this is, as you said, related to the harmonisation of EU law. The philosophy of this act is also based on this - which is important for the introduction of these products That the product-specific control is carried out ex post. So it's a philosophy based on trust with the manufacturer. The manufacturer shall comply with certain conditions, place the product on the market and its control shall be ex post. That is to say, by random checks, it shall be verified whether these conditions are met by the manufacturer or distributor, the person who places the product on the market. Significant changes, which are in the act replacing the current law, also concern the functioning of the Polish Accreditation Centre. Here, in turn, there is an increase in supervision to say, on the part of the Minister of Development, on the one hand, the minister responsible for economic affairs, and on the part of the consultative board on the other. Some of her powers are being increased. In the consultative board there are non-PCAs outside the Ministry, and therefore some kind of social control is being introduced. We also very strongly modify the system of imposing fines on entrepreneurs who do not meet the conditions. I mean, we're introducing the possibility of measuring these penalties. So, when imposing a penalty, the authority will have to take into account the individual circumstances that accompany the infringement by a particular trader. If the circumstances set out in the final provisions are precisely the case, appropriate titration will result in a lower penalty. If there is some kind of self-repair I'll tell you what. The fact that it is being brought into line with the legal situation is that the audit authority will refrain from imposing a penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u62	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any questions for the Minister? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: There is no one willing.]] [[Voice from the room: Grzegorz has corrections...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u63	I would like to make amendments to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u64	They're signed. Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Pekkis. Would a government representative like to comment on the amendments tabled? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: If you don't mind.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All I'm saying is that as far as direction is concerned, we are absolutely in favour of these amendments. They concern the date of entry into force, so that they actually ensure, first, consistency with the Material Law, second, consistency with the date of entry into force of the new directives, which will make sure that entrepreneurs do not lose this market immediately at the beginning of the entry into force of the Directives in other implementing countries... So that as far as direction is concerned, we are very much in favour of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u66	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 119 and the committee's report In print No 119 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u67	This is the further part of the amendment by adapting Polish law to the requirements of EU directives. Within the scope of this law, these are amendments specifying the safety requirements for the use of explosives intended for civil use and pyrotechnic articles and amendments to the necessary information for users of those materials. Amendments to be made Maybe I'll read very briefly what they are about, so that we know what the scope of the changes is. The following shall be included: 1. the obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of explosives intended for civil use, including pyrotechnic articles, to ensure compliance of such materials, articles, with essential safety requirements, and to inform users of the conditions of safe use of those materials; 2. the obligations of notified bodies relating to the marking of pyrotechnic articles by means of registration numbers and the keeping of a register of the registration numbers given; 3. rules for the movement of explosives for civil use; 4. market surveillance of explosives for civil use; 5. sanctions against economic operators operating in the field of explosives intended for civil use for non-compliance with the requirements of the Act. In this case too, amendments were proposed and voted on during the committee's deliberations. All the proposed amendments were supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u68	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u69	Mr. Senator, I only have one question. Because you're here... Besides, the Minister has confirmed that these laws are somehow linked: the first law with the second law. Well, this is also due to the implementation of the directives. I have a question: will the non-adoption of the amendments proposed in the first law affect the second law, namely explosives, if these laws are linked? Whether these amendments to these two pieces of legislation, so to speak, interlock or not...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u70	Yeah, I mean, the amendments that... It's about those amendments I made, isn't it? [[Yeah, yeah.]] It is about changing the date of entry into force. There's a pretty tight timeline. The date of entry into force is 20 April, so we adapt both legal acts to simultaneous implementation. This would simply be desirable from the point of view of the introduction and validity of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u71	I understand that this has been synchronized so that both laws enter into force at the same time. Yes? Is that it? Yes? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. Do any of you have any questions for the rapporteur? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I would like to welcome Mr Tadeusz Kościński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. Welcome, Minister. Do you wish to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Tadeusz Kościński: Yes, yes.]] Come on in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other Acts is the core of legislative action to implement 3 Directives: Directive 2014/28/EU concerning Explosives for Civil Use, Directive 2013/29/EU and Directive 2014/58/EU concerning pyrotechnic articles. Explosives for civil use are used in economic activities, mainly in mining and demolition of buildings and structures and pyrotechnic articles for pyrotechnic demonstrations. The draft clarifies the provisions on obligations for manufacturers, importers and distributors, such as what factors should be taken into account, so that explosives or pyrotechnic articles designed, manufactured and placed on the market do not present a risk to users and bystanders. A new element in relation to the existing legal situation is, in particular, the inclusion of explosives used outside mining market surveillance rules, so that the state control system in this area will be more coherent and complete. The difficulty in implementing these directives is that, on the one hand, all, sometimes very specific requirements of the safety directives should be taken into account and, on the other hand, not to create too far-reaching obstacles for businesses operating in the sector. Part of the provisions of the Directive are implemented under the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. This concerns legislation on accreditation, authorisation and notification of notified bodies, as well as administrative controls and proceedings in the market surveillance system. Both laws create a kind of legislative package. The revision of the Act will increase the level of safety associated with the marketing and use of explosives and improve the level of harmonisation of national requirements with the Union in this respect. I therefore request that the bill submitted be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u73	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u74	Minister, I have a question about the procedure in which we participate. We need to get this raped by April 20th, I understand. Here's the question. These European directives are dated 2014. What bothered and to whom From what I understand, not this government, but the previous government. In the introduction of these directives into our legal order before? It's been almost two years. Why have we waited so long and done it by throwing the tape?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u75	You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Tadeusz Kościński: Can I use my help because I can only tell you what is up to now, and the director could say...]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u76	I would like to explain that the previous Ministry, the Ministry of Economy, has been involved in this project for a year and a half. At the beginning of last year, we presented a project to the Government Legislative Centre and there was a problem of this nature, whether this law was to be combined with the Act previously considered, whether it should be separate laws. After a long discussion, which lasted almost six months, they returned to the separation of these laws. That is why, for procedural reasons, it took so long to prepare the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u77	Thank you very much. Do any of you have another question for a government representative? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Tadeusz Kościński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Robert Dowhan liable. I would like to inform you that the Senate Marshal has addressed the application of the Chief Inspector of Road Transport to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. This report is contained in print No 97. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Andrzej Misiołek, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee considered the request by the Attorney General and the Chief Inspector of Road Transport to allow the Senate to hold Senator Robert Dowhan liable in a road traffic offence case. This case has been going on since the previous term of office, and it's kind of unusual. The untypicality of this case is that the car that was photographed by the camera is one of many cars belonging to the company in which Mr. Robert Dowhan was once president. Based on the photo that was taken by the camera, it's impossible to tell who was driving that car. In addition, the company that owns these cars has a board of 3 other members. It is not very clear why the Chief Inspector of Road Transport refers specifically to Mr Robert Dowhan and not to the other members of the Board. The matter was examined very carefully by the committee, as I say, in the previous term and already during this term. As a result of this discussion, as a result of the explanations that Senator Dowhan made before the committee, the committee is proposing to reject the proposal of the Chief Road Transport Inspector. May I add here that the resolution on this matter was unanimous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u79	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u80	Mr. Senator, I have a question. It's a matter of fact, as I understand it, there's a camera, a traffic violation... In such situations Although I do not know what the procedure in the Road Transport Inspection is, it is directed to, so to speak, the perpetrator, the potential of the perpetrator, the information or the suggestion of guilty, to take the blame by this particular person, the owner of the vehicle or the President of the Management Board. Was there a letter to Senator Dowhan suggesting that he should take responsibility or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u81	Yeah, I was just... But that car that was photographed doesn't belong to Senator Dowhan. This is the car that belongs to the company. There are several such cars in the company or dozens of them. Okay, let me get this straight. And you don't really know who was driving that car. Senator Dowhan says he doesn't remember that car in this place... that it would move around and drive it, the more that it's... And if the Chief Road Transport Inspector were to address the company's board of directors, that would be a completely different matter. But he's addressing one particular member of the board of directors of this company, the one who's the senator. Well, it's kind of pointless to give this kind of a run when you could explain things in a completely different, much simpler way. [[Because he knows him.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, 'cause he knows him.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u82	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u83	Excuse me, I have another question. In that case, was Senator Dowhan asked by the Road Transport Inspection for any explanation? Was there an investigation, or was it simply an application for punishment addressed directly to Mr Dowhan as chairman of the board? Did ITD try to explain this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u84	I mean, it's been directly requested. As I say, the Senate, the Senate committee has asked the road transport inspector to give a better picture, a better quality, so that you can identify who is driving this car, but unfortunately there is no such picture. So you can't tell who's driving this car. Of course, if the inspector's request had been addressed to the company, to the company's board of directors, the company would have simply paid that ticket without identifying the specific person, or would have identified the driver who was driving the car. Which, as Senator Dowhan said, could be quite difficult, because it was a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u85	I see. Do any of you have another question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u86	When a private person who has a car registered to himself gets a ticket like that, but you can't tell who broke the rule because you can't see it clearly. However, the rule has been broken, it is suggested to the person to pay the ticket without pointing out the guilty person. Isn't that the situation? Because, you know, the problem is that a private person doesn't enjoy immunity and then there's no such discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u87	Well, that's what it's all about, is that the road transport inspector turns to the company, and that's when the company's gonna pay. But he specifically addresses the senator who's with one of the Let's call it that. The employees of this company. And it points out specifically. His, while he's unrecognizable in this picture. And as I say, there's not only this one car in this company, but from what the senator said, there are dozens of cars in this company. And it's hard to tell who was driving that car. So pointing out by a road transport inspector who is not able to present a photograph on which you would recognize who drives the car One particular member of this company, the one who is a parliamentarian, is, at least, strange. As I say, the committee has examined it quite thoroughly, listened to the senator's explanation, and unanimously decided that there is no reason... Let the inspector just go to the company, and the company will pay and the case will be over. [[Can't a ticket be paid?]] But you can go to the company because the car is company, it doesn't belong to a particular person.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u88	Thank you very much. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u89	That's the question I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. [[Yes, please.]] Mr. Senator, the owner of the vehicle is legally responsible for such an offence. Is the owner of the vehicle a company or are you Senator Dowhan?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u90	From what Senator Dowhan has presented, it appears that the company is owned, not by Senator Dowhan. The car belongs to the company and this car could drive different people, not one person, it was not assigned to a particular person in this company, it could be moved by different people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u91	Senator Włosowicz was the first person to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u92	Thank you. Mr. Senator, could you answer when the incident took place, what car was involved, and exactly what misdemeanor?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u93	Right now, unfortunately... Wait a minute. The request was submitted on 18 August 2015. When it happened, I'm not gonna answer right now, I don't remember. This is, of course, in the documentation that is in the committee, the exact date indicated in the proposal. The car... It was a passenger car, it wasn't a truck or a delivery car, it was a passenger car. [[And how much has this car exceeded its speed?]] It's 30 miles an hour. There was no incident... [[Thank you.]] [[He was driving normally.]] ...more than weird. He just photographed a car that was speeding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u94	Senator Slugocki, ask me a question. [[I'll pay this ticket to end...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, is it clear from these analyses and discussions you had with the senator that the economic operator whose co-owner or employee you are the senator did not intend to pay this mandate, or is it just a matter of burdening this particular person? 'Cause I think you tried, but in a way that wasn't quite successful, to inform you that that's the will of the operator, only with an earlier definition of who was driving the car. Right? Have I understood your statement correctly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u96	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u97	I mean, there's been a request. Aimed by name... Senator Dowhan was identified as the person who crossed speed. But there's no way to say it was Senator Dowhan. That's not gonna happen. The photograph is illegible, no sign of who was driving the car. Senator Dowhan says he didn't drive it. And the point is that if the inspector asks the company to do so, the company has two options: either to determine who was driving the car and point to the perpetrator and the perpetrator pays the ticket, or, if the company is unable to indicate, to pay the mandate, the company president must pay the ticket for... [[Is that the will to pay?]] Yes, it's the will, only that the motion was made against this one particular person. And it's little, little understandable why it happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u98	We're here to ask questions. Senator Bonkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u99	I have a question for you. Since the car is on the company, it's registered to the company, the ITD has an address for the company, it sends it to the company, and the CEO pays it at the company. Maybe it's disgusting, but I've already lost count of how many tickets I've paid... But there's version A, B and C: either you take on yourself, or you point or you sign in: I know, but I won't tell and I won't report, and I'll take the ticket for myself, simple. So it didn't come to Mr. Dowhan because when the car was on the company, it came to the company. Mr. Dowhan, as I hear, is the CEO of the company, and the CEO of the company pays a ticket if he doesn't, simple. He just didn't want to pay his ticket, so I'm amazed... [[But, Mr. Senator...]] You can't send... And how does ITD know who was driving? [[Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.]] All he knows is who owns the company... [[Well, that's right, from here...]] ...just pointing to the owner of the company. After the registration, he knows that the car is registered to a Member State, and he sends it to the Member State owner of the company. [[So that's why, Mr. Senator, this situation is weird. This situation is strange because the road transport inspector turned...]] She's weird because you guys haven't investigated this case in detail. That's why she's weird. Because you haven't looked at these explanations in detail, and these explanations are crazy. You just had to pay a ticket as president of the company and that's it. I know who was driving, but I'm not gonna point out, or I just don't know, and I'm paying as CEO. [[Mr. Senator, well...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u100	Let's get back to... There's a question. There's an answer. If I understood correctly, if the letter were addressed to the chairman of the board, we would be dealing with such a typical situation. If the letter is addressed by name to the person concerned, it is as if we are not dealing with the procedure that we are talking about and which we know. Yes, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u101	Yes. The car wasn't a private car registered to Senator Dowhan. [[To the CEO of the company...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u102	Good. Senator Dobkowski came forward as the next question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u103	Thank you very much. In practice, I know that penalty points are charged when issuing mandates. Sometimes, if you don't want to get the penalty points, you don't point to who was driving. But then you're exposed to the fact that... because if there's a picture and you can see it, you can make false statements... It's very risky. In this case, did Senator Dowhan have a proposal to receive penalty points or not? 'Cause maybe this is about the penalty points... I don't think you can impose penalty points on a company; they can be imposed on one specific person. In this case, was there a proposal that Senator Dowhan should agree to receive the penalty points in addition to the mandate? Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u104	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u105	Mr. Senator, if you can't tell clearly who was driving this car and you can't... We, as the committee, have asked the road transport inspector to present a photograph on which you can identify the person who drives this car. The inspector cannot present such a photograph. [[Because they don't send photographs now.]] But they sent it to the committee, Senator. It is possible to look into all the documentation of this case. There's a file on this case on the Rules of Procedure Committee. Believe me, the fact that a unanimous decision has been taken to reject the application of the Chief Inspector of Road Transport shows that all senators were convinced that this matter was not properly handled, but not by the Senate and by the Rules of Procedure Committee, but by the Inspector of Road Transport.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u106	Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u107	Mr. Marshal, perhaps irregularly, but I request that this discussion be concluded. [[We'd have to vote...]] I can't justify it because it's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u108	I, too, think that we spend too much time on something very obvious. Whether the senator is retreating or not... [[It's not a motion, it's a request. I ask you to end this discussion.]] On request... Do any of you have any more questions? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u109	Mr. Marshal, Mr. rapporteur, there has been so much information that I am completely confused. I have a very simple question. Where did the name of the defendant's senator come from in the first place if the senator doesn't confess? Who gave you that name?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u110	The Chief Road Transport Inspector has filed a motion to waive the immunity of the senator. [[On what grounds?]] Well, we don't really know... And that's why it's the decision of the whole committee I told you about. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But I think somebody's got that document...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u111	I'm sorry, but I'm the one who's holding the floor. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 The Senate's Rules of Procedure shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Robert Dowhan like to make an explanation? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. Do any of you senators want to ask the senator about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u112	Yes. How high was the ticket?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u113	How would I know? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[What do you mean? They called you in to pay your ticket, and you don't know what the ticket was? Come on, be serious.]] [[Mr. Senator?]] Could you be more specific... [[Yes...]] Mr. Marshal... I don't know if it's because of your marshal, like it's in the regulations, or if we're supposed to have our own discussion... [[No, no, I'm just asking...]] If you're having second thoughts, you might have solved it. I didn't drive the car and I don't own it. That should be enough for you. If you don't understand the basics, why don't you just end up at another stage of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u114	No, I just... It's not enough. I'm just asking. I'm not saying that... you're saying you weren't going, and I'm not questioning that. Except you've been summoned to pay your ticket. So I think you know how much the inspector sent you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u115	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. We're looking at a point where Senator Dowhan's questions are possible, in accordance with the regulations. The real question is, does Senator Dowhan know the amount of the mandate? It's either yes or it's not. If yes, what is the amount. If she hasn't been established for procedural reasons, you don't know her. It's a simple question and a simple answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u116	I don't remember, Mr. Marshal, I mean honestly, I don't remember. It's kind of short.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u117	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions? Okay, I don't think that's relevant. No questions. Thank you very much. The vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u118	Communication: The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications for the Law on Conformity Assessment and Market Surveillance Systems will take place at 2.30 p.m. in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-06-senat-14-1.u119	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 13 minutes 52]]
