ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u1	Resume session. [[Game in the O.R.]] I will appoint Mr Małgorzata Golińska and Mr Sylvester Tulayev to the secretaries of today's proceedings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Mr Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Extraordinary for changes in codification - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 10.30, - Public Finance - immediately after the end of the votes, approx. hour. 10:30. In addition, I would like to inform you that today there will be a meeting of the National Democratic Parliamentary Group - also immediately after the vote, about an hour. 10:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u3	Thank you very much. High Izbo! May I have your attention, please? I would like to inform you that on 24 February this year. Ryszard Janusz Bender - historian, academic teacher and politician, professor of humanities, dean of the Faculty of Humanities at the Catholic University of Lublin, co-founder and long-term president of the Catholic Intelligence Club in Lublin, publicist, chairman of the National SOS Secretariat for Radio Maryja, Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland VII and IX term of office, Senator II, VI and VII term of office. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform the High House that the vote for my invitation is currently being watched by a delegation of the Hungarian National Assembly with the decorated Commanderial Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland, vice-president of the Assembly, Mr János Latorcai. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] I warmly welcome the President and the members of the delegation. I inform that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification without the agreement of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the field of railway transport by the Polish-German state border signed in Berlin on 14 November 2012. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is print 270. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The Sejm Bureau submitted a proposal for amendments to the Commission's personal contributions. The application is in print No 273. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. The Commission proposes that a draft resolution be adopted in print No 253. High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I will read the text of the draft resolution: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. To commemorate the 60th anniversary of the anti-communist rebellion in Poznań in June 1956 and the 60th anniversary of the uprising in Hungary in October and November 1956. The Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland and the National Assembly of Hungary, convinced of the special importance of these events for the common history of the two Nations, establish 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. The heroic break between Poles and Hungarians was a manifestation of our eternal desire for freedom and protest against the enslavement of the entire region as a result of the partition of Europe imposed after World War II. Mutual solidarity and the assistance of our Nations in 1956 represent a special value to be remembered together. The resolution was adopted by the National Assembly of Hungary, the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland 'Monitor Poland'. I propose that the Sejm adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on Government Billings on: - amending the Investment Funds Act and certain other laws, - amendment of the Act on Public Offering and Conditions of Introduction of Financial Instruments to Organized Trading, and on Public Companies and Certain Other Acts. The additional committee report shall be in print No 266-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! The Public Finance Commission prepared a joint report on the prints on the amendment of the Investment Funds Act and on the amendment of the Public Offering Act, originally in print No 69 and 70. Two amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Commission is positive and recommends a positive vote on the whole of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u5	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of Draft Printing Law 266 and sets out in an additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 219 of the Investment Funds Act of the applicant in the new amendment propose to delete point 4 of paragraph 4. 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 401 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, 34 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. The 15th Act on the National Capital Fund of the applicant in the new amendment proposes to add paragraph. 5 and 6. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 436 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 266, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 410 Members voted in favour, 1 Member voted against, 27 abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Investment Funds Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 273). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? [[He doesn't want to.]] No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 273 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 439 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 15 hours 10 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: presented by the Council of Ministers document: Report on public aid granted in the agricultural or fisheries sector in the Republic of Poland in 2014 (print No 168) together with the position of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation (print No 227). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki to present a report. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public aid in agriculture and fisheries is granted through public funds and does not cover expenditure on the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. However, it includes any support granted to agricultural producers and fishermen by Polish public institutions in the form of grants, interest subsidies for loans, tax credits and exemptions, payment instalments, redemption of payments, as well as funding from the State budget for services and other tasks for agriculture. Public aid is granted on the basis of Polish legislation notified in the Commission or notified to the European Commission under the so-called procedure. an exemption regulation or de minimis aid which does not require notification or notification. In 2014, as we are talking about this year, agricultural aid was granted to agricultural producers under notified schemes and notified to the European Commission for PLN 1815 million and PLN 316 million in the form of de minimis aid, mainly in the form of notified and notified programmes in agriculture. It concerned: subsidies for biological progress and plant and animal production - 100 059 thousand, the fight against animal and plant diseases - 206 million, subsidies for agricultural fuel - PLN 792 million, subsidies for contributions to agricultural and livestock insurance - 161 500 000. PLN, aid for the interest rate on investment and disaster loans - 352 800 000. PLN, financing of the costs of harvesting and transport of fallen livestock - 95 400 000. zł, foresting of agricultural land - 63 900 thousand. Whereas de minimis aid in agriculture concerned aid for certified seed - 119 800 thousand. zł, fruit subsidies: black currants and cherries - 21 300 thousand. zł, surcharges for apples, onions and cabbages - 109 900 thousand. PLN and compensation for damage to agricultural crops caused by wild boars - PLN 1 million. In 2014 de minimis aid was granted in fisheries for only 2663 000. zł, mainly for the remission of penalties for exceeding fishing quotas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u7	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Andrzej Kobylarz to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on a government document: Report on public aid granted in the agricultural or fisheries sector in the Republic of Poland in 2014, contained in print No 168, together with the position of the committee. The report was received by the Sejm on 23 December 2015 and was addressed to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. At its meeting on 9 February 2016, the committee considered the report presented and asked the High Sejm to accept the printing document No 168. High Seym! The report was prepared on the basis of Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law of 30 April 2014 on the treatment of aid cases according to which the Minister responsible for Agriculture, on the basis of reports and information, draws up and presents to the Council of Ministers a report containing the results of the monitoring of State aid in agriculture or fisheries in the previous year, in particular data on the size, form and use of State aid, as well as an assessment of the effects of the aid granted in the field of competition. The data contained in this report shall be as at 30 June 2015, the date on which the report on the State aid granted in agriculture or fisheries for the previous calendar year was transmitted to the European Commission. In the fisheries sector, aid may be granted on the basis of the following Community rules: guidelines for the analysis of State aid in the fisheries and aquaculture sector; EU C 217 of 2 July 2015, Commission Regulation (EU) No 1388/2014 of 16 December 2014 recognising certain categories of aid granted to undertakings active in the production, processing and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products as compatible with the internal market pursuant to Article. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Commission Regulation No 717/2014 of 27 June 2014 on the application of Article. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for de minimis aid in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. De minimis aid of EUR 665 796 was granted in 2014, representing 1,61% the limit of the cumulative amount of de minimis aid fixed for the Republic of Poland, which amounted to 41 330 thousand. the euro, in accordance with the Annex to Commission Regulation No 717/2014 of 27 June 2014 on the application of Article. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for de minimis aid in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. Use of the total de minimis aid in fisheries over a period of 3 years, i.e. from 1 January 2013 to 30 September 2015, at 30 September it amounted to EUR 929 284, representing 2.25% limit of the cumulative amount of de minimis aid fixed for the fisheries sector in Poland. Commission Regulation (EU) No 717/2014 of 27 June 2014 on the application of Article 1 shall apply from 1 July 2014. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for de minimis aid in the fisheries and aquaculture sector with a ceiling of 41 330 000 de minimis quota. Euros. In 2014, no public aid under the block exemption was granted under Commission Regulation No 1388/2014 of 16 December 2014 declaring certain categories of aid granted to undertakings active in the field of production, processing and aquaculture as compatible with the internal market pursuant to Article. 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and aid schemes on the basis of guidelines for the analysis of State aid in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. High Izbo! After examining the report, the fisheries analysis and the discussion within the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation of the said report on behalf of the committee, I recommend the adoption of this document to the High House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u9	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Cieślak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the information contained in print No 168 adopted by the Council of Ministers on the report on public aid granted in the agricultural or fisheries sector in the Republic of Poland in 2014 in the fisheries section. Public aid in the fisheries sector was granted in the following forms, in short: grants, tax reliefs and exemptions, loans and loans, guarantees and guarantees, interest payments on bank loans, omission of tax collection, deferred payment of tax, broken down into instalments, redemptions or omissions, disposals or transfers of property owned by the State Treasury. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice adopts information on public aid granted in the fisheries sector for 2014, while at the same time pointing to the need to develop the sector as a whole. In the assessment of the club, the indicators presented in the information show that fisheries aid is traceable, minimal, as it represents 1,61% the limit, and that is only for de minimis aid. In comparison, aid for agriculture is granted at a limit of 35%. We propose action in the following areas: fisheries and fisheries, shipbuilding, seaports and shipping and conservation of resources and waterfronts, including action in view of the catastrophic situation with regard to the Baltic fish stock resulting from and resulting from the wrong policy of the European Union for the last 7 years, in particular in the context of industrial fishing. Extending and strengthening the control of industrial fisheries by the European Fisheries Control Agency. Changing the concept of fishing towards priority treatment of family fishing. Conduct reliable research into the size and development of the Baltic fish population. Take action to prevent further degradation of the Baltic Sea. An important element of the sector's development is the necessity, the need to further support aquaculture. We see an imbalance in the development of the shipbuilding industry in the east and west coast. We propose the creation of appropriate regulations in the organisational, financial and legislative area in a way that will stimulate the shipbuilding industry by increasing the yard's development prospects. [[It's about agriculture.]] An important element of the maritime economy is the shipbuilding bill, which will adopt friendly solutions in the area of PIT and CIT taxes and will facilitate the creation of consortia. The urgent task is to increase the availability of the port of the east coast from the mainland, and we are giving priority to this issue. As part of this challenge, the programme for the development of Polish seaports by 2020 (with a view to 2030) should be further developed, particularly in terms of improving the competitiveness of Polish seaports and increasing their participation in the country's socio-economic development and increasing their profile in the international transport network. A channel of navigation through Vistula is essential for the security of the state and the economy. Furthermore, programmes for the protection of sea shores need to be continued, and in the context of inland waterway transport it is necessary to restore the navigability of Polish rivers and to accede to the UN Convention - the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance. Ladies and gentlemen! The perception of fisheries as part of a comprehensive maritime economy guarantees further proper development of the sector. In the context of the challenges presented, we also welcome the creation by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation of industry advisory and advisory teams to develop proposals for solutions to the proposed scope. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u11	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Civic Platform will support the government document on public aid granted in 2014 in the agricultural and fisheries sector in Poland. State aid in agriculture and fisheries was granted in the form of de minimis aid, to remind you - partial repayment of capital, bank credit, interest rate subsidies on preferential loans, tax reliefs and exemptions Or grants. In 2014, public aid was granted under category A, which concerned grants, refunds, public charges, tax exemptions, tax write-offs or interest. Public aid was also granted under category C, which concerned subsidies for preferential loans, deferrals or the distribution of time limits for payment of tax or other charges. Under category A, the amount of public aid in 2014 amounted to 1 806 362 thousand. PLN and was awarded by five entities. The first concerns the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, who directed the funds to implement the following programmes: firstly, the biological progress in animal production, the keeping of livestock books - the amount of PLN 100 million, and secondly, plant protection - 400 thousand. zł, it was aimed at the payment of compensation for diseases that occurred in agricultural crops, thirdly, the fight against infectious diseases - almost PLN 206 million, the tasks carried out by the Veterinary Inspection, and finally the payment of contributions to agricultural and livestock insurance - over PLN 160 million. The second entity, which granted public aid, was the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, who granted aid of PLN 0,4 million. These were measures for farmers who suffered losses in their agricultural crops, mainly for the Land tenants of the State Treasury. The third entity was the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which granted aid at the level of PLN 545 million, broken down by the following programmes: firstly, aid for the payment of investment loans in agri-food processing for agriculture of PLN 35 million, for the creation of a credit line for new technologies in agricultural production - more than PLN 46 million, a loan for the purchase of agricultural land - PLN 39 million, a grant for companies collecting fallen animals - PLN 95 million, for the mobilisation of a credit line for the creation and installation of agricultural holdings by young farmers - PLN 152 million, for the forestry of agricultural land - PLN 46 million and for the restoration of production potential in forests covered by the Rural Development Programme for the period 20072013 - almost PLN 18 million, was finally granted aid in the form of preferential loans for the purchase of land by farmers, it was the decision of the Council of Ministers of the European Union of 20 November 2009. Let me remind you that this was a three-year period, which was very well assessed by farmers, and a lot of land was purchased by the farmers concerned. Another entity that provided public aid was the President of the Agricultural Agricultural Insurance Fund. It was an aid of PLN 0.5 million - assistance in insurance premiums for those farmers who suffered from natural disasters occurring on the farm. Another entity was also local government units which implemented the scheme related to the refund of excise duties on agricultural fuel used for agricultural production - an amount of more than PLN 793 million. As far as public aid under category C is concerned, this was an amount of PLN 8.7 million. The aid was granted by the presidents of the Agricultural Property Agency and the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture - relief in premiums for farmers who suffered losses in agricultural crops or special departments. Local government units, in particular municipalities, also granted reliefs and exemptions in the case of investments in agricultural holdings. This mechanism has also been applied. De minimis aid was an important instrument which was used in 2014. In 2014 it was an aid of EUR 79 million, while it is worth remembering that the cumulative 3-year aid for Poland amounts to over EUR 225 million. We, of course, also benefited from this aid, and I will remind you that this aid must not exceed 15 thousand. The euro per person or per farm, and the Minister mentioned in his speech that this aid was also used by our farmers. Let me just remind you that over 75 grand. the holdings benefited from this de minimis aid for the purchase of seed. Over 19,000. the holding has benefited from aid in compensation for low cherry and black currant yield. Almost 42,000. the holdings benefited from this aid as a result of the Russian embargo as regards exports of onions, cabbages and apples. Of course, in 2014 funds were paid out to 440 farms - this mainly concerned the Podlaskie voivodship - for farmers who suffered losses in agricultural crops caused by wild boars. I would also like to point out that in 2014 there was a very low interest in issues relating to guarantees and guarantees, which the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has in his competence. Let me remind you that this is a job to do. It is worth taking advantage of, but there is really no such interest today. In 2014, the guarantees and guarantees concerned one application, which was incomplete and rejected. Since the start of the Agency, more than 200 operators have benefited from this aid. It's not much either, it's a job to do. On the other hand, de minimis aid in fisheries has already been signalled. Let me remind you that this cumulative value is over EUR 40 million; per entity It could be a total of 30,000. Euros. In 2014, around 30 entities benefited from this aid for the amount of 665 000. Euros. This was primarily the aid addressed to those entities which were covered by Regulation No 804/2007 of the European Commission. Indeed, de minimis aid is an important instrument, as I said, but in order for these projects which are prepared by the Ministry to be launched, it must, of course, also be a security in the state budget. So, in conclusion, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to say that in 2014, public aid to the agricultural and fishing sector guaranteed the freedom to carry out the tasks which the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development was obliged to carry out and its services. That is why I once again request and support this document on behalf of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u13	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The report presented to the Sejm on public aid granted in the agricultural or fisheries sector in Poland concerns, in fact, 2014 - a rather distant case, but it is still a good opportunity to look at the priorities of the country's agricultural policy. For what purposes are funds spent? For which purposes do large amounts seem to be spent, and for which small amounts? I'm gonna talk about these things today that other clubs haven't talked about. I will admit that it was a big surprise for me to know that subsidies to finance the cost of biological progress in animal production in 2014 amounted to more than PLN 100 million. The grant could obtain money, e.g. for the purchase of a Silesian stallion of 3.5 thousand. zł. They also paid for the purchase of bulls of meat breeds and boars, which means that the state supports with public money a specific type of diet, which does not have to be beneficial for the health of Poles and Poles. I am referring to the results of the analysis published last year by the International Cancer Research Agency, which is an agenda of the World Health Organisation, according to which consumption of meat and red meat may increase the risk of colon cancer. This applies to a large group of Poles and Poles. I believe that agricultural policy should be consistent with health policy, although diversification of meat production in favour of beef is obviously needed. A grant of 1600 000 could be applied for the assessment of the breeding and performance values for fattening and slaughter of pigs at pig processing centres in 2014. zł. In comparison, only 419 000 were spent under the aid scheme for farmers and agricultural producers who suffered damage on agricultural holdings or in special agricultural production departments due to flooding, hurricane, hail or storm in 2013. zł. As a total scandal, I believe that Polish society contributed to the purchase of animals for fur breeding. In 2014, payments could be made for fox breeding, nutria, cowards or chinchillas. In total, large amounts were spent for this purpose, supporting the cost of living, among others. 71 pastel foxes, 200 beige chinchillas or 105 Greenland nutria. According to information from the Ministry of Agriculture, 2014 was the last year of the grant for the maintenance of livestock for fur, and this is good news. In addition, a grant could even be obtained for the organisation of animal breeding shows, as well as for the evaluation of feed materials and their usefulness in feeding carnivorous fur animals. A grant of 130 000 could be granted to the latter. zł. Should the Polish society really support this? In my opinion, no. On this occasion, I would like to stress that I am in favour of introducing a complete ban on animal breeding on fur. The Modern Club filed a bill on this matter last week. I encourage all parliamentary clubs to support him. Our priority should be to develop ethical agriculture, ethical farming, which will be environmentally friendly, instead of paying to wear animal fur and keep animals in cruel conditions, in tight cages. Why, then, should public spending be worthwhile? First of all, support for organic farming and the setting up of cooperatives can be increased, making it easier for farmers to enter and stay on the market with their products. It is also worthwhile to start supporting climate-friendly farming, which allows you to store carbon dioxide taken from the atmosphere in soil - in the form of caries. The Minister of the Environment at the Paris Climate Conference expressed his willingness to take action in this direction and it is worthwhile to allocate resources for this, as climate-friendly agriculture means in practice ecological crops that are beneficial both for the environment and for consumers' health. I would also like to raise the issue of late payments to farmers. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture is still behind on subsidies and I wonder if the system actually fell or if you fired so many people that so far there is no one to make reasonable decisions. And the farmers are waiting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u15	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u16	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today, on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to express my opinion, say a few sentences in the area that we are proceeding with, i.e. the report on State aid to agriculture and fisheries. After examining the material presented, I would like to state that it has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legislation and legal requirements, is legible, contains key numerical and factual information and is presented in such a form that not only experts of the subject can extract or obtain relevant information from it. You will allow the marshal that I will not discuss in detail and detail the various parts of this report, because my fine speakers have already spoken very thoroughly about it. So I think you'll allow the marshal to share his remarks, suggestions and possible suggestions about the future. I would like to say and stress that the support provided, on the one hand, met expectations and needs, enabled the transition of the management period, taking into account the negative indicators, factors and events that occurred at that time, on the other hand fulfilled the formula set out in the legislation. It is good that the government has supported this sector of the economy, which has recently made such significant advances in technology, in technology, has taken pro-export measures and has become one of the main departments where the export surplus is significant and very much needed in the balance of payments of our country. I am referring not only to the inclusion and support of funding, which consisted in increasing production capacity, but also to a wide range of actions and factors that will contribute to the overall development of this sector. I'm talking about funding biological progress. I think that despite the comments - and it is good that they are - we should continue to work in this area and support the biological progress in the area of plant and animal production, that we have helped in the development, in increasing the area of farms, that we have supported them, received support from local authorities, through subsidies to agricultural fuels, that farms, operators could increase their potential, modernising the base, improving the equipment. I am referring here to the groups of agricultural producers in the fruit industry that have been created, functioned and helped solve the difficult problem that arose in the area of fruitage following the embargo. It is also important that, in the future, we analyse all possibilities, issues, meet expectations, of course by changing or modifying the directions of action, and this will be a normal response to the changing realities of economic life as well as preparations for further development of exports. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we want to talk about support and public aid for fisheries, I think that we have a large area to take action here and that we will certainly make as good use of these opportunities in the future as we have done in the area of agriculture. We will therefore be on behalf of the club in favour of the information submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u17	Thank you very much, sir. Three parliamentarians signed up for the questions. If there's no more calls, I'll close the list. I'm setting time for the question -- two minutes. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask the Minister on the basis of the experience of 2014 about the de minimis aid mechanism. What is your assessment of the global amount that Poland can have through its national budget, and as you also assess the threshold of 15 000. the euro which may be allocated to one agricultural holding? I ask this question in the context of our agricultural structure, where 1350 thousand. Farms receive subsidies, so very much, while the productivity of these farms on average is not particularly high against the background of the European Union, so this de minimis aid, in fact referred to as 0,3% of the value of production in the agricultural and fisheries sector for 3 years, is not large. I also ask this question in the context of the beauty of the de minimis mechanism, which is extremely flexible and can be used when we have extraordinary events and those in Poland arrive, starting with political events, see Russian restrictions or climate events. I am also asking this question in the context of the experience of last year, when it turned out that events related to natural disasters caused that we did not have a sufficiently good response that could help farmers in a situation of either total destruction of the crop or massive destruction of the structure of the farm. I would like to ask you this because it seems that we should have a de minimis mechanism in this area with a very effective instrument to respond to situations such as these. ct [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna tell Namyslowski last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to know from the Minister, because he presented this information quite laconically and coldly: Does the Minister think that money was well used for the time being, were well targeted, that it came to the Polish farmer, that this money was used effectively for Polish agriculture and Polish farmer? That's a question. I would very much like this government to take advantage of the possibility of funding from the budget of the country of Polish agriculture, for which I keep my fingers crossed, Minister. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u21	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u22	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The subject of agricultural support from the measures we are talking about today is absolutely necessary for the Polish farmer, I think. However, Minister, I would like to ask specifically about one type of expenditure. In the report you presented, perhaps the amount of PLN 1 million, I remember, was given to farmers to support the damage caused by wild boars. This is a subject that goes through every year. The damage caused by the widely understood game of prey, specifically by wild boars, is increasing from year to year. I would like to ask: was the amount in 2014, this 1 million PLN, sufficient amount, met the needs of all farmers who reported damage to crops caused by wild boars? In the following years, specifically in 2015, which has already ended, and which has begun, was the amount of support for these losses more or less? Because we hear and come to us in the parliamentary offices, in the field, that it is the damage from year to year that is increasing. The solution to this problem is needed not only through compensation payments, but also in another way: through an appropriate reduction of the feral population, which has actually increased significantly in recent years. Are the funds for this support after 2014 also sufficient, secured, so that the losses made by wild boars in agricultural crops can be covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these questions, because they really are questions about the problem that we are talking about today, and they are quite important. As far as de minimis aid is concerned, the global amount at present is sufficient because Poland was not approaching the border point, the threshold for the use of this aid. The last use is probably within sixty-six percent. There was this one year, but before that, we were almost 100%. the use of this aid or even exceeding the threshold. So it would seem that the amount at present is sufficient. However, 2015 was such a difficult year in agriculture that we need to look for extraordinary forms of support, additional forms of support for Polish farmers, and almost every agricultural market. Therefore, in the opinion of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the management of the Ministry under the direction of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, we believe that these amounts should be increased. At the last meeting, the situation on the pig and milk market was discussed at the meeting of EU agriculture ministers on 15 February at the request of Poland. In December Poland first reported this problem through the mouth of Minister Jurgiel. For the second time, we raised this problem in February. During the discussion there was also a proposal not only from Poland, but also from other countries of the European Union, among others. Germany, so that one of the actions is to raise the threshold. The Germans proposed to raise it from 15 thousand. Up to 30,000. Our position, which yesterday was communicated to the European Commission, which was the result of the meeting of 15 February, stated that after 15 February, after this meeting, within 10 days until 25 February, individual countries would submit their proposals for new actions, new solutions, new ideas for aid to farmers in this difficult situation. In our position, among others. we have dealt with raising the public aid threshold both globally and individually for individual farms. We are aware that our agriculture is diverse and the threshold of 15 000 for small farms. is a significant threshold, but in the case of medium and larger holdings this threshold is often exceeded. There were farms which could not apply last year for the distribution of, for example, penalties for exceeding milk quotas for exceeding the threshold, although in the case of penalties for exceeding milk quotas, the mechanism was running a little later, and the possibility for these larger farms to also submit applications was later. And there was little interest, but there are situations where, with some forms of aid, those farms that have already used the limit would like to benefit and, unfortunately, they cannot or will not be able to. That is why we are proposing and supporting Germany's position on this issue, not as far as it is concerned, but as regards the direction of change in this area. [[What about heights?]] On the other hand, when it comes to various forms of help, we are working and we have already prepared this. This emergency aid, which we are currently granting, although not in de minimis aid, concerns milk and pigs, but is one of these forms. We are also preparing a number of actions that will require notification, but also a few actions that will be in the de minimis form. Therefore, it would undoubtedly be good if the possibilities of the Polish state, and here we have EU-wide solutions, if this muzzle were to be loosened a bit. Of course, you have to watch. for the fact that this concerns national aid, so it must also be possible and budgetary and formal to provide such aid. Another question: Was this money well spent? I said it this way, I apologize for the expression, maybe because yesterday we were sitting at the agricultural committee's meeting late at night, so the night was shorter than usual, but I certainly believe that these measures were well spent, that such assistance is needed, moreover, more than was needed in 2014. I don't have the data for 2015, but I think it was probably bigger, even considering the drought. We would like to see that Polish farmers do not require aid so that this aid does not need to be provided so that the prices are so cost-effective that the aid will not be necessary... [[But in every country, help is provided.]] ...but this is a dream that must be pursued and that will probably never come true. On the other hand, it would be good if the need for assistance was as little as possible. On the other hand, the State must be prepared to provide such assistance when necessary. I am also pleased as the Deputy Minister responsible for agricultural budget matters, for finance in the Ministry of Agriculture, that in the case of these forms of aid there was no situation that the European Union questioned this aid, that we had to return or recover, worst of all, these forms of aid from farmers, because unfortunately for other forms of support, where it is not in public aid, but where various kinds of measures were transferred, such situations are taking place. The situation is particularly difficult when it comes to aid for fruit and vegetable producers. It worries me as responsible for finance, but each of us should worry if the aid granted by Poland must be reimbursed. He's losing his state budget and farmers may lose it if those consequences have to touch them and if they've committed... errors are on the side of farmers. This wasn't the case here. As regards the question of damage caused by wild boars, this was a one-off aid in 2014. In 2015, this form of aid was not continued and earlier such forms of aid at least I do not remember. Perhaps they appeared in some years earlier, because it was aid paid from the state budget through the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The problem of hunting damage and damage caused not only by wild boars, but by all game hunting is a problem with which the High House will have to - it seems to me - touch and try to regulate this problem, because it has been growing for years and has not been solved for years. And certainly the form of one-off or emergency aid and support to the state budget does not solve the problem systematically. We need to look at this in the evaluation of the agricultural department, although this scope of action should be... [[Environmental protection.]] ...to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but in the evaluation of the Ministry of Agriculture, because it affects farmers, it is necessary to find system solutions that will allow for a systematic solution to this problem. The Ministry of Agriculture, as I said, although it is not formally responsible for this issue, is also working on a contribution to target solutions which would be sufficient compensation for farmers for the damage suffered by animals that are not owned by them, but are owned by the State which is engaged in hunting circles or national parks, because depending on the area concerned, these two forms, these two institutions are responsible for the hunting economy in Poland. So I hope that soon this problem will be regulated systematically, so we are not preparing special separate support for 2016 in the case of hunting damages. Thank you very much for these questions and for your positive opinions on the report, because if the current government has no comments on the previous government report, I would wish that this could be the case in any area, but unfortunately sometimes these comments appear for objective reasons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Commission requests the adoption of print document No 168. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 12th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz Club15, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir. I don't see your MP. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I make my statement on the occasion of the 250th anniversary of the death of our King Stanisław Leszczyński. He is an important figure in our history - the only king of Poland, who was twice for a period of 3 to 4 years, the only king who, in the 18th century, failedly, but tried to restore the greatness of the Republic. The King is very controversial, because on the one hand a zealous Catholic who participated daily, as they report historical sources, in the Holy Mass, but on the other hand, as was the case in the 18th century, a freemason. The patron of the arts, the Duke of Lorraine, who was primarily involved in his politics with France, who, with the help of France, tried to strengthen the Republic and whose reign fell during the period of the Northern War. Unfortunately, the power of evil on one - the Saxons were more powerful, they had more powerful allies, and this resulted in the king being forced to rule for quite a short time, with a rather long break. Since it is the 250th anniversary of death, it is worth recalling this character. It is worth recalling the period of the fall of the Republic of Poland and to share the reflection that sometimes even figures who have good intentions, which have good intentions, rightful rulers may not meet the power of evil, the power of foreign intervention, the power of foreign powers. And our story is also a story of the fact that we are not sometimes able to manage and defend our own sovereignty. We cannot defend our own sovereignty when the geopolitical environment is extremely unfavorable. King Stanisław Leszczyński died a tragic death at an old age. It was probably the ruler who, as the Duke of Lorraine, lived to the most aged age in the history of Poland. The tragic death caused him to warm up by the fireplace, ignite from the heat of his clothes, and for almost three weeks he died in pain and suffering. Some sources say that dying in suffering was a kind of expiation, a kind of redemption of matters connected with belonging to freemasons. And you can hope that he died in the opinion of holiness, in the opinion of conversion and reconciliation. As I said, he was a zealous Catholic on the one hand and a zealous freemason on the other. It seems that such an anniversary is de facto important, because in my opinion it is the last true Polish king, who was not characterized by servitude towards future conquerors, potential invaders, just patriotism and conviction of the importance of the Polish state's right. It should be remembered that on 24 February we celebrated the 250th anniversary of the death of this slightly forgotten king of Poland, with whom the figure can very rarely be contacted, when it comes to Polish kings' mails, it is very rarely mentioned, it is somewhat forgotten. I have decided on such a historical nature of the Seym statement to remind this character, to lean on this anniversary and this character, and to remember also such characters of our history. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u27	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Nolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers is an opportunity to remind the silhouettes of often outstanding figures from the period of Nazi occupation and years of Stalinism in Poland. One of them was Stanisław Sokołowski, a member of the Polish Olympics for the 1940 Olympics, an officer in the September 1939 campaign, commander of the guerrilla troops of the ZWZ, AK and Battalion Chłopski, murdered by officers of the District Security Office in Krasnystaw and encavdzists in 1945. Stanisław Sokołowski, a legendary farmer, a friend of Janusz Kusociński, a man of great heart and great courage, a victim of political terror, continues in our consciousness as a model of athlete, soldier and guerrilla, as an embodiment of the idea of freedom. He followed Kusociński and reached his last finish line, just like Kusa, when he was 32. Stanisław Sokołowski was born in 1913 in Rejovec in an inefficient family. His father was a locksmith. A difficult material situation, sometimes even poverty, with which he struggled bravely, especially during childhood, junior high school or studies at the Warsaw AWF. Among other things, he tutored, did minor work in the homes of wealthy middle school friends, and during the summer he worked with a blacksmith, sometimes his stepmother expelled him from his home. In September 1939, Lieutenant-General. Stanisław Sokołowski fights against the German aggressor in defense of the bridgehead near Puławy. On September 15, he fights the Nazis in Lublin's defense. On September 18, 19th, he took part in the last battle of 9th. The Legion Infantry regiment under the Krasnystaw. He didn't go into captivity. He made it to the Niebnice with the weapons and the master maps. In fact, he immediately joined the conspiracy of independence. Already in 1940 he organized underground structures of the Armed Fighting Union, then the Home Army on dwarf land. His commitment was appreciated by his superiors. He was promoted to lieutenant. On May 1, 1943, he became a captain, then a major in the AK. Conspiracy is interrupting his arrest. The farmer goes to an extermination camp in Majdanek in 1942, where he is assigned to a construction group where he manages to escape. He's going back underground. Sokołowski is not only a soldier, but also a teacher, a educator of the rural community. What he was doing in his environment at the time of Nazi terror is an act. No less heroic than armed combat. In Podkrasnoszcze Niemienica organizes sports competitions for rural children: volleyball and football matches. In the village Olesin runs car courses for guerrillas on equipment acquired on the Hitlerites, because the division of Major of the Farmer owned about 30 acquired cars: trucks, semi trucks and personal. Sports were probably a kind of rebound from the nightmare of occupation for Sokołowski. Nearly every day he ran 5 km, and in the courthouse he put two jumps: to jump up and to jump on the pole. The armed struggle of the subcommunicated Major of the Farmer, both in the AK and in the BCh, is widely known, especially to the inhabitants of the Dwarf Land. However, the bloodless release of 249 prisoners from the Krasnystaw prison at night from 19 to 20 September 1943 must be mentioned. In fact, just after the Soviet troops entered in the summer of 1944 and installed their security services, the district of Krasnostawski was brutally pacified: about 160 people were deported to Soviet camps, and many people were secretly murdered or imprisoned in camps and prisons, e.g. in the Nazi extermination camp in Majdanek or the castle in Lublin. As a result of the treachery on November 10, the farmhouse in Cologne Wielębych was surrounded by enclaves. During his attempt to arrest him in defense of his own life and colleagues, Sokołowski took the gun away from the public and then shot four officers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With these words I wanted to commemorate Major Sokołowski, who was murdered by 30 NKVD officers on the night of 23 to 24 November 1945. Captured from his own home and shot, he crawled into the woods, crawled through a potato box, but the encavus got him and shot him in the back of the head. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u29	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr John Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since January 1991 agricultural advisory centres have been operating in Poland. They functioned in 49 then voivodships. This was the case until 1999, i.e. to change the administrative division of the country, and in fact until 2005, when the Law of 22 October 2004 on agricultural advisory units organized in 16 voivodship agricultural advisory centres subject to the competent voivodeship and financed by the state budget entered into force. The change took place in 2009, when the provisions of the Act of 23 January 2009 became local government legal entities under the local sejm of the voivodship and since 2012 to the voivodship boards. And so the head of the centre is appointed by the voivodship board, and the ministry is financed by the operation. In 2015, disturbing information about the poor financial situation of the Małopolska Agricultural Advisory Centre, about growing commitments and falling debts began to reach me. And so on. at the end of 2011, debts amounted to 168 thousand and liabilities to 133 thousand, 2012 - receivables to 274 thousand, liabilities to 102 thousand, 2013 - receivables to 85 thousand, liabilities to 467 thousand, 2014 - receivables to 24 thousand, liabilities to 1161 thousand. PLN, i.e. since 2012, which was the year ended with a profit of 185 thousand, each next year is a loss. Thus, in 2014 it was 455 thousand. PLN in spite of a loan of 500 000 in 2013 zł. The beginning of 2016 is already a delay in the payout for the crew. This fact was reported to me by MODR employees. It is clear to me that it is high time to lean on the very serious problem that occurs, according to my information, and in other advisory centres and restore the agricultural advisory services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to prevent agricultural advisory centres from declaring bankruptcy or living on credit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u31	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Eve Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We restore the memory of the enchanted soldiers. On yesterday's important conference we celebrated the coming celebration of the cursed soldiers, appointed by Parliament's resolution on 1 March. Veterans of WiN, AK, insurgents of Warsaw and participants of anti-communist fights of other formations for their heroic attitudes during World War II were affected by drastic repression in the Polish People's Republic. Death sentences, prisons, various forms of limitation of their rights, many years of repression, it was their cost for loving their homeland. The families of interwar Members were also present yesterday among many guests. Ladies, who have spent many years in the prisons of the Polish People's Republic, regretted that the names of their fathers, former Members, murdered by Communists are not on the plaque dedicated to the memory of parliamentarians who died during World War II. Completing this list is an important task for us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u33	Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Peter the King.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 1 March we will celebrate again the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. I would like to devote these few words to the celebrations of the heroic soldiers of the National Army and the National Armed Forces or WiN, which will be held on Bydgoszcz soil. I'll be there at about an hour. 9 In the White Muds near Bydgoszcz there will be planting oaks in honor and memory of the cursed soldiers. Also in the White Muds will take place, next to other celebrations, running. Inowroclaw will host the memory of the cursed soldiers. I have the pleasure of taking this course with my patronage. Further ceremonies will also be held in the capital city of Bydgoszcz, or Bydgoszcz, under the patronage of your Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship. But I would particularly like to give a few words to the celebrations that will be organized by young people, and specifically by the fans of Zawisza Bydgoszcz. First thing I'm gonna do is at the hour. 5:30 p.m. The soldiers of our Liberty. Polish independent armed underground after 1944, whose speaker will be Dr. Marek Szymaniak. About an hour. 18 in the garrison church of St. Virgin Mary of the Queen of Peace on the street. Bernardine mass will be held, and after this Holy Mass we will march from the church under the obelisk at the arrest of the investigators on the street. The Jagiellonian Walls and there, under this plaque, we will honor and praise the cursed soldiers, and above all we will honor their memory, those who had the courage to fight for free Poland in the darkest times. Hello and praise the heroes! I'll see you later. I urge all inhabitants of the Bydgoszcz land to participate in these celebrations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u35	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 1 March in many cities of our country there will be celebrations on the occasion of the National Day of Remembrance of the Cursed Soldiers. Poles will honor and honor the bravest of the brave soldiers of the Polish Army, who did not end the fight for fully free and sovereign Poland in the Second World War. Associated in the organization Freedom and Independence did not agree to the rule of Communist allies from the Soviet Union, rightly considering that this state of affairs does not guarantee Poland independence, but, on the contrary, pushes and then closes in the clutches of the Soviets. For their strong opposition to the communist regime, they paid the highest price - life, of course, being tortured, humiliated and forced to cooperate. For years the Polish People's Republic could not be commemorated, it could not even be officially talked about people like rtm. Witold Pilecki, Major Hieronim Dekutowski, Colonel Łukasz Ciepliński or finally Gen. It was tried to wipe away the memory, but it was impossible to erase heroes from the Polish nation, it was not possible to win silently with the desire to pay tribute to people of honor who stood in defence of their homeland not only when they had to fight the weapon in their hands, but also when Poland was also stripped from within. Today, thanks to the efforts of the sleeper. The President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński celebrates in Poland on 1 March a national holiday - National Day of Remembrance - Soldiers of the Cursed, of course, cursed by communist authorities, and really soldiers of integrity. In dozens of Polish cities, millions of Poles will pay tribute to our heroes. And so, once again, he will be in Stalowa Wola, where from year to year these celebrations have an increasingly rich schedule. Stalvowolski celebrations will begin on 28 February, when there will be a question throughout the city for exhumation and identification of the cursed soldiers, led by the Foundation. On the same day, at the same time. 11 in the city park will open a symbolic guerrilla camp. On time. The 13th show of the horse drill is planned, and then the stage of the guerrilla battle under the name "Obrawa" will be staged. About an hour. 19.44 will take place the course of the Wolf's Trail to the symbolic distance of 1963 m. During the run there will be a question of rebuilding the monument of Poles who died in the Soviet Union during the great famine organized by the Freedom and Democracy Foundation. On February 29th, Stalvowolski schools will host lectures conducted by history teachers using the Association's film Save from Forgetting. On 1 March, it will be the main day of the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed in Stalowa Wola Mon. The Soldiers of the Cursed - people of steel will. About an hour. 16.30 Holy Mass will be held. in the church of St. Trinity of the Most Holy, then laying flowers on the grave of the Unknown Soldier. Then through the streets of Katyn's victims, Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko and 1 August on Piłsudski Square will pass Stalowowolski March of Remembrance of Soldiers Cursed. The official military ceremonies will take place in Piłsudski Square: memory appeal, honor salvo, speeches and a rock concert of the band Fever - songs and poems about enchanted soldiers. On 2 March at the Interuniversity Library at 3 p.m. The 18th film will be shown by the children of the Ł. and then by the guerrilla diorama performed by the Historical Reconstruction Group. Wojciech Lisa ps. Avenger of Mielec. The presentation of the film "History of Roja" will take place on 5 March in the cinema Wrzos, before the film reconstructors will approximate the figure of a soldier cursed by the name of the hive, while after the film there will be a lecture by Dr. Mirosław Surdej from the IPN Branch in Rzeszów. From 1st to 6th of March, in the hall of the City House of Culture you will be able to admire the exhibition of the Foundation "Return Memory" devoted to the 4th Management Board "Freedom and Independence." I would like to thank all the organizers of these celebrations, President of Stalowa Wola Luciusz Naberezny, the City Council under the leadership of Stanisław Sobieraj, the old age of the district Janusz Zarzeczny, the chairman of the District Council of Ryszard Andres, the Institute of National Reich Remembrance, as well as many organizations and patriotic associations. Thank you, the Foundation, let's bring back Memory with President Witold Adamski. This foundation has been taking care of for many years [[♪ The bell ♪]] to renew the destroyed tombs of local war heroes. I would like to thank the Polish Gymnastics Association, the Stalowa Wola Patriotic Organization, the "Save from Forgottenness," the association "Stal Patriots," the scouting unions and many other organizations, as well as individuals who joined the organization of these celebrations. For me, it is a great honor, although I consider it an obligation, that I may have taken this ceremony as an honorary patronage. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u37	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At a time of political correctness, our nation needs authority, especially at this point in time. And such authorities can certainly be soldiers cursed, who have shown what it means to be Poles, especially in times of Soviet terror. We all have pictures in front of us when in the Third Republic of Poland the political class failed to properly celebrate the cursed soldiers, when soldiers cursed with shivering hands, often without money, stood in pharmacies for drugs to live properly, while red cameramen played for our money with the best. Today we come to a time when the cursed soldiers stand in the right place, when they are our heroes, when we worship them not only in official celebrations, but also in social celebrations. Therefore, I would like to appeal to all Poles for mass participation in social celebrations, participation in marches, issues, screenings of films to go to the movie. The history of the Roja, which I highly recommend to go to marches of the cursed soldiers. We'll see you in Bialystok at about an hour. 17th at the Ton Cinema on March 1, where together, we will all pay tribute and glory to the soldiers cursed, our heroes. And that's what we're going to talk about very loudly on the streets of all the cities on March 1st. From this point of view, I would also like to thank all social and patriotic organizations in Poland, which are engaged in the celebrations on 1 March, headed by the All-Polish Youth, the fans' environments or the Gymnastics Society of the Falcon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u39	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u40	A declaration on the occasion of the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! March 1st this year We will celebrate the National Day of Remembrance for the sixth time. This feast was established to pay tribute to the steadfast Poles who could not accept the imposed Soviet domination. The road to establishing a holiday reminding Poles of soldiers cursed was, unfortunately, a long and not easy one. Before 1989, these great patriots and heroes were constantly slandered by the communist authorities. Only after the fall of this criminal system and the coming of the changes in the system could the truth about the enchanted soldiers be spoken out loud and officially spoken out. Action was started to restore the good name of these great Poles and to pay tribute to them. The term "soldiers cursed" was first used in the early 1990s. The efforts to establish a day to commemorate the cursed soldiers took a certain shape and accelerated around 2005. The calls from the veteran community have finally started to gain more and more support. These efforts were given a strong impetus and acceleration by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance since the end of 2005. Janusz Kurtyka. On 28 February 2009 a resolution was adopted at the First General Meeting of the Association of the NZS 1980 to support the initiative of the World Association of National Army Soldiers to establish on 1 March the day of the cursed soldiers. The idea of setting a day to commemorate the steadfast firm support was also given by the dead. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. It was he who finally sent the draft law on this matter to the Sejm in February 2010. A day to commemorate the heroes of the anti-communist underground was established by the adoption of a law on the establishment of the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. It was decided that this celebration would be celebrated on March 1st. This, of course, is not a random date. On that day in 1951, in the prison of Mokotowski, communist executioners shot the members of the 4th General Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence: Łukasz Ciepliński, Mieczysław Kawalc, Józef Batory, Adam Lazarowicz, Franciszek Błażej, Karol Chmiel and Józef Rzepka. They created the last leadership of the last nationwide conspiracy that continued after the end of World War II the work of the National Army. This year we will celebrate the 65th anniversary of their deaths. The post-war conspiracy of independence and anti-communist conspiracy was the most numerous form of organized resistance of Polish society against the imposed power. In addition to operating directly in the armed underground conspirators to the community of cursed soldiers there should also be people providing guerrilla food, intelligence, shelter and communication. Despite all efforts made by the communist authorities to make the memory of the enchanted soldiers disappear and the truth about them distorted, today Poles worship the steadfast heroes. Every year, the day of March is an opportunity to lay flowers and ignominy during celebrations dedicated to the steadfast. Their silhouettes appear in books, movies or musical works, and more and more places in public space are named after them. Poles remember these great patriots. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-26-sejm-12-3.u41	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 12th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 13th session of the Sejm, convened on 9, 10 and 11 March 2016, will be served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 11 min 47]]
