ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u1	Good morning. I'm extending the recess until 10.15 a.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 00 to 10 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resuming session... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to remind you that a discussion on this law was closed before the adjournment. I would also like to remind you that Senator Bogdan Klich made a formal request for an adjournment until a representative of the government arrived. Since there was no quorum in the vote on the proposal yesterday, we will now proceed with the vote on the proposal. In addition, I would like to remind you that Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz filed an application identical to that of Senator Bogdan Klich. These conclusions, gentlemen, you're holding up, right? [[May I?]] But here... Yes? [[I still have a voice...]] But not now, because I'm already... Oh, no, Mr. Marshal, not now, because the motion has been filed, there's an objection... It's... [[There it is. Mr. Marshal wants to know if I'm maintaining the motion. Yes...]] Whether you're supporting it or not. Yes or no. Yes? Okay, thank you. I take it you do. There is an objection, so we are voting on the proposal. [[Voice from the Chamber: What is the conclusion?]] [[A voice from the hall: Wait a minute, the marshal was going to say it.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I don't have a card.]] Excuse me? [[I don't have a card.]] Oh, then we'll have to wait for the card to be found. [[Voice from the room: What's not there?]] Maybe someone took Senator Martynowski's card. Let's check our cards because... [[Martynowski...]] [[It's you, isn't it?]] Mr. Senator, it could happen. If your laptop happened in the briefcase, it could happen... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[As the marshal kindly remembers...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a five-minute recess by 10:22 p.m. because we need to make a card. Excuse me. [[Voice from the O.R.: 5 minutes?]] Yeah, five. [[Now four.]] Well, now four, and before that, it was five. Come on, Mr. Senator... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 18 to 10 minutes 22]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversations quiet and take your seats. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Marshal, well, I'll give you the floor, even though I've already told you we're voting, and I shouldn't have done that. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u3	Mr. Marshal, I've kept my hand up from the beginning. [[All right, here you go.]] I'm filing a formal request for a recess and... [[Yeah, but it's already been filed. We all know that.]] ...and bring... I'm putting it in order to wait for the Minister of Justice to arrive. [[We know, yeah.]] Mr Marshal, I understand that yesterday's interpretation of this type of proposal, which was accepted by the Marshal in charge, was also accepted by you. This interpretation leads to a situation in which we vote on the request to wait for the Minister of Justice to arrive after the examination of the point. This is... [[No, this point isn't closed yet. Mr. Marshal, you're wrong.]] It shows what this interpretation... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...is pointless. That's all I wanted to say. I'm not taking it back.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u4	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, but we have already discussed this at the Senior Convention. I would like us not to have a discussion that has already been held at the moment. Besides, we extended the recess until 10.15 just to put an end to this discussion. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat: we are voting on the motion of Senators Bogdan Klich and Bogdan Borusewicz to announce a break until a representative of the government arrives. Who is in favour of Senator Bogdan Klich and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted against, 27 against, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 65]] The motion was rejected. Legislative proposals were made during yesterday's discussion. I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I inform you that the votes on the bill will be held later; we will inform you when. Senators, I inform you that the decision of the Senior Convention has been extended by an additional day, 7 December. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by four points: the Act amending certain laws on health and safety of the service and consider it as item twenty-four of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and certain other laws and consider it as a point on the 25th agenda; the Act against unfair exploitation of the advantage in trade in agricultural and food products and consider it as item twenty-six of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as item twenty-seven of the agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I'll find the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws on health and safety of the service. The text of the Act is contained in print No 352 and the committee report In print No 352 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to present a report to the committee. But in the script, I was supposed to have I'm so sorry. The fact that after this point, if there are no amendments, we will vote. If there's any changes, I'll call a break. I'm handing this over to you. After that point... [[Voice from the hall: And that convention...]] Yes? [[Voice in the courtroom:...extends the sitting.]] That's what I said. And that's not in the script. So that after that point, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a vote. If amendments are tabled, there will be a break for the committee meeting and we will vote after the committee meeting. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Mr Rafal Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to the High Senate a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which today has been leaning on the Act amending certain laws on health and safety in the service. The draft law was drawn up in connection with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 24 November 2015 and includes amendments to the laws of the Police, Border Guard, Internal Security Agency and the Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, the service of officers of the Military Counter-intelligence Service and the Military Intelligence Service, contested by the Ombudsman to the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal has ruled that the provisions of these laws are contrary to the article... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but I feel like I'm in a hive, I hear a noise, and I can't hear the senator. So that I ask you to stop talking or talk outside. You're welcome.]] The provisions of the laws are contrary to Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Constitution, which explicitly states that the obligations of the employer and the way in which the right to safe and hygienic working conditions is exercised should be laid down in the Act. Therefore, it is essential to consider it incompatible with the law to specify in detail the conditions for the safety and hygiene of the services of officers only by means of the regulations of the Police Chiefs and the Border Guard or by means of regulations in the case of other services. The Court finds that the legislator is required to determine the scope of the provisions of Section 10 of the 1974 Labour Code and the rights and obligations of officials and their superiors at the statutory level by regulating the safety and hygiene of the service. This is important in the context of the exercise of the right to safe and hygienic service conditions. In accordance with the Court's judgment, the contested provisions shall expire on 3 December of that year. In carrying out the Court's instructions, the work on the project was based on the assumption that the regulations contained in Section 10 of the Labour Code would in principle apply accordingly to the officers. However, given the different nature of the tasks performed by the services in the draft law than in the ordinary employment relationship, the extent to which they will be applied in the various services of health and safety, the superiors responsible for their performance in the services have been appointed and the way in which health and safety are ensured in relation to subordinate officers. Officers are required to comply with health and safety rules. The Act also provides for the possibility of withdrawing from the health and safety rules in cases where specific tasks are carried out, since their application could prevent the performance of statutory tasks of the services. Today, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions has bowed to this law and is asking for the law to be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u6	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? The meeting is attended by Minister Sebastian Gwałek and Deputy Chief of Police, Helena Michalak. Would any of you like to speak? Minister, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As the rapporteur of the committee has already mentioned, this is a draft law which implements the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is, I would say, a clean transfer to the law of the internal acts of the various departments. Unfortunately, I must admit that the deadline set by the Court is very quickly, actually tomorrow. We therefore request that this proposal be adopted without amendments as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In express mode, in almost negative time we consider... [[Joy in the Chamber]] The negative time is when the Sejm has not yet passed the bill, and the Senate is calling a meeting and that's... That's what we found out yesterday. But let us return to the matter, that is, to the draft of this law, whose inspiration was the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, how binding we are. The rapporteur faithfully recreated, presented the committee's meeting as well as the outcome of the vote, but did not mention that during the committee's deliberations the legislative department had expressed the need to make several proposals for amendments, not just editorial amendments. By participating in the deliberations... One of the amendments proposed said that the deadline And here comes the negative time for the implementation of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal tomorrow. Yes? Tomorrow we have a third? Yeah, December 3rd. And the Act states that the Act enters into force on the day of the announcement in the Official Journal of the Laws. As you know, the Journal of Laws hasn't started printing yet, so it hasn't been published yet. So you can count on that... and that's the definition of negative time that the PiS government uses here. I will mention the work of the legislative department, which pointed out the need for changes, including the definition of the right deadline. I've taken over these proposals for amendments, but I'm guided by the good, especially my loved ones, the health and safety of the servants... Platform, I hope. I am expressing my position on her behalf and rejecting this prescribed form of correctness of the law and will vote in favour of the law without amendment. Unfortunately, I cannot avoid a political comment, however, that it is my wish, but probably also the public's, that the government of the PiS more and in due course deal with laws, decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, and not the fight against the Constitutional Tribunal, because we will have to deal with cases where laws so important to ordinary Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u10	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We'll proceed to the vote... Gong, turn on the gong. We'll wait a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the vote on the Law amending certain laws on health and safety of the service. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. Mr. Marshal Karczewski's card... No, this is my card. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There he is. There's your marshal's card. Does the marshal want to lead this vote and vote here? No? We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Oh, Jesus, Mary, Mr. Marshal...]] What happened, Senator? [[You can take a minute while the senator goes to the bathroom...]] Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't know the senator was in the bathroom. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted in favour, 73 votes in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 66]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws on health and safety of the service. Senator, let us know how you go to the bathroom. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 353 and the report of the Commission In print No 353 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Robert Gawł, to submit a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main change is...]] Excuse me, one technical remark: now we will no longer vote after each point, but we will vote en block at the end. [[Technically, my point is, if the marshal won't let me come back, I'm traumatized, and then...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, and allow the senator to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u11	So we're back to the bill. The main change is to take into account the funding of children aged 6 years and over who are included in pre-school education as part of the education part of the general subsidy. The need for increased support for 6-year-olds is linked to the abolition of the school obligation for these children and thus the need to include pre-school education of 4 year-olds instead of, as so far, 3. I'll explain: three-year-olds, four-year-olds, five-year-olds and six-year-olds. Prior to the amendment of the provisions on the abolition of school obligations, 6-year-olds were obliged to start schooling and were consequently included in the amount of educational subsidies, which amounted to PLN 5 000 278. The educational part of the general subsidy for local self-government units for 2016 was counted on all 6-year-olds. According to the current state of law since 2017, a 6-year-old child who will remain in pre-school education is entitled to a grant from the state budget of PLN 1 thousand 338. This year it was necessary to make changes in order to charge the subsidy in an appropriate way from 1 January. Increased funding for 6-year-old children will enable local governments to create a coherent policy on pre-school education and education and the needs of planned changes. The Act will not have any financial implications for the state budget and the budgets of self-government units above the total level of expenditure set out in the part of the education subsidy for 2017 in the draft budget law. It is assumed that the level of funding for a 6-year-old child under pre-school education will be lower than the level of primary school funding due to differences in the cost of running school and pre-school. Covering additional financial support for children aged 6 years and over in pre-school education, i.e. increase from PLN 1 thousand 338 to PLN 4 thousand 300 for each 6-year-old child, increase expenditure for this purpose by PLN 1 billion in 2017. This effect has been taken into account in the draft Budget Act for 2017. The draft law was introduced by a group of Members. Today, a meeting was held between the Joint Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Mr Lech Szcko was the representative of the Group of Members and Minister Marzenna Drab was present at the committee meeting. The Senators asked the substantive questions. there were several of them, to which they were answered exhaustively. I would just like to remind you that at the sitting of the Sejm the bill was adopted by a large majority of Members: 423 were in favour, no one was against, 1 abstained. As for the opinion of our Legislative Office, it is positive. The Act raises no legislative objections. So much for the report on today's joint committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u12	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today at the end of the Senate. And we're out of script. [[Voice from the Chamber: Changes in committees.]] [[Voice from the room: No. One more point.]] But I don't have it anymore... [[Voice from O.R.: Twenty-six...]] Twenty-five, this is twenty-three... [[Voice from the room: Act on countering unfair use of...]] Ah, here's the twenty-sixth. I'm sorry. There you go. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 348 and the report of the Commission In print No 348 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Tell him to find out.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're looking for Senator Chróścikowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you Senator Chróścikowski? Can you get Senator Łyczak to call Senator Chróścikowski? [[Should I call?]] Yeah, because we're waiting for him. [[Voice from the room: Maybe there's one in the toilet.]] Maybe he's in the bathroom. Just like Senator Fedorovich. [[The Minister is at the votes in the Sejm, but...]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, there it is.]] Mr. Senator, we're waiting for you. Mr. Senator Chróścikowski, we're waiting for your senator. [[Voice from the O.R.: We're waiting for you.]] [[I've already brought it.]] We thank Senator Łyczak for bringing the Senator rapporteur. [[Joziu, bring the minister in.]] The Minister is on the votes in the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: But he will come.]] But he'll come. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation a report on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 30 November 2016 to counter the unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. We were looking into it on December 1st and 2nd, this morning. And the committee requests amendments. These amendments are 7. The amendments are mainly legislative, mainly on language and legislative issues. I don't think I'm going to discuss them in detail. Each of you has a print number 348 A. If there are any questions, I will try to answer. And as for the bill itself... This is a short change in agriculture. It's just that the contract agreements on which it was imposed in the Agricultural Market Agency Act... should be signed by the buyers process the products from the farmer, that there should be contracts... And it's all written down, except for one record. There are no sanctions. This law adds these sanctions so that operators who purchase agricultural products are obliged to conclude a contract. That's one of the factors... And the remaining provisions are transferred from previous provisions adapting to this law in the field of the operation of the OKAiK. Therefore, I think I will no longer justify the details here, because this is the transfer of those competences, the matching to this range of activities. I believe that what was discussed at the committee meeting, which was explained between the Legislative Office and the Government, has been agreed. And I propose that we adopt a law with seven amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u14	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Augustine has been the first and only one to vote so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u15	Mr. Marshal, I would like to say: Mr. Minister It's already the second case... I don't know if we should ask for a break again... [[No, it's a technical matter. They are simply voting in the Sejm.]] I don't think this is a one-man resort. I have the impression that there are still vice-ministers and many responsible people. The fact that there's no one here is simply unacceptable and shouldn't happen. So, Mr. Marshal... It is the Senate Bureau and the Marshal who are responsible, in my opinion, for providing us with good working conditions and the presence of ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to submit, because unfairly operating representatives of large commercial networks have been trying to exploit the gaps in the law for years, so pressing the prices of suppliers that their production often balances the profitability limit, and getting on the market shelves is subject to unfair demands. This is true, although in Poland we have a law on the protection of competition and consumers, that we have a law on combating unfair competition. Nevertheless, it is still a long way to be right, and unfortunately it is not always successful. Although it must be said that, as the years passed and after the amendment of those two laws, it is increasingly possible to counteract dishonest practices. However, the question is open: is there really a need for a special act in relation to the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection? Because that's what you have to call her. This is a special law that introduces a special mode for a special group of contracts and companies. The sentences are divided. In my opinion, this submission should be a chapter in that parent law, to which it refers. I think that would be a lot clearer. The other way was chosen. The most important thing is to achieve the goal. And this law, in my opinion, by imposing additional obligations and giving the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection additional powers, has the opportunity to fulfil its assumptions and contribute to compliance with good practices in relations between commercial networks and suppliers. Only that this law is, unfortunately, quite imprecise in my opinion and allows for a very large interpretational freedom, which combined with very large amounts of possible penalties can become a serious threat to companies. I know that the implementation of this law is conditional, but unfortunately not until the second instance, as an appeal, court proceedings. However, this may be illusory because it may lead to bankruptcy of a company that cannot be excluded It is considered unfair either by competition or by a group of suppliers. And it is not that the dishonest are only those who accept goods, buy goods. Unfair players can be different to the market. And that's why this legal protection balance is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. 7, which is crucial for the whole law, is said to be the use of a contractual advantage, which is unfair if it is contrary to good customs. Well, that concept is such a sack, it's so general that you can hook it up really much. And of course, it adds and threatens or violates the essential interests of the other party. But these are all very judgmental concepts. And in case anyone thinks there's anything else in this paragraph, I say, unfortunately, no, that's all, period. I am not convinced that such a provision is already in the Anti-Unfair Competition Act. And you could say, since it is, why are we repeating it? Is it like that bill isn't working? No. Since it does not cease to work, the transfer in extenso of a rule already in force in the legal system is at least defective by law to the new law. This should not be done because this provision is already in force in exactly this way. But this paragraph is linked to the next paragraph, or mouth. 3, where it is said that the unfair use of a contract advantage consists in particular of... And here are a few cases, i.e. an unjustified termination of the contract and a threat of termination of the contract; granting only one party the right to terminate, withdraw or terminate the contract; making the conclusion or continuation of the contract subject to acceptance or fulfilment by one of the parties of another benefit, which is not a material or customary relationship with the subject-matter of the contract, unjustified extension of payment deadlines for agricultural or food products delivered. The Ministry and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection have written here so far, it could be said that the tricks that gave the advantage, the possibility of fulfilling the contractual advantage, the unfair advantage of the contract. Good, but my doubts are raised here by the wording in particular, because this means that reading this paragraph together with the mouth. 2 simply gives a huge space to quite freely acknowledge what is really a violation of good customs, which is a threat, which violates the interests of the other party. It's gonna be an office to assess. We do not have, so far, any major reservations about its functioning, although the question arises: why do we even do it when we have this office? He hasn't been able to handle such things so far. Perhaps there was a lack of proper regulations, but I am not convinced that this is the only explanation. However, I am afraid that such loose wording in today's legal reality, which tends to be oppressive, was witnessed even yesterday. And to take action by the state office, which is later challenged in court... Well, that the existing, quite reasonable actions of the competition authority may not be continued now, that it will not look like that anymore. And that this office will become And that's the intention of this law. Much more decisive in dealing with entrepreneurs. Of course, it's okay when there's a violation of the law, but it would be bad if, for example, it happened. It's a mistake. That is why we, thinking about this and today in the Senate, and always, always try to think about all possible consequences, because the law should be created so that all parties can take a fair look at their case. Well, I have very serious doubts about that. I reported them at the committee meeting. The Minister responded by talking about practices in other countries. I mentioned it. The Minister wasn't here yet. That's right. That's right. That's right, that's right. Two's here. But that's the argument against writing this paragraph, not for it. Now that he's here, why repeat it? I think it would be much better for us to be on this issue with some caution, taking much greater penalties, adopting the wording of the article. Today's article. Paragraph 7 3 - in the form of a closed directory. Many times you senators, especially from Law and Justice, when we talked about some shortcomings etc., you said: okay, after all, we can always come back here and change something in the act in express mode. I'll use your argument today. If it turns out that this catalogue is incomplete, that entrepreneurs have come up with something there, then, please, let's get on with it, let's get on with it, let's get on with it, but let's not open up an opportunity that will allow the official to impose a penalty of up to EUR 50 million in case of conscious action or even EUR 10 million in case it is unconscious. I ask you to understand my arguments, which are reflected in the amendment in order to delete my lips. Article 2 7 without any loss, Minister, because he is already included in another law and is in force. I would also suggest that we clarify the paragraph. 3, closing the catalogue by deleting the words in particular.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. As you have noted, a representative of the Ministry of Development appeared in the Chamber during the debate, for which we thank you very much. I know the working calendar in the Seym is very tight. You're Marshal Borowski second. Your vote, Mr. Marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I initially approached this law, so to speak, very calmly, because the subject is important. Here in front of me, Senator Augustine confirmed this, stating that we are actually dealing with a number of practices which are abuse of dominant position towards the supplier. Of course, suppliers must be protected from this. [[Yeah, that's right.]] I would even say that the ambiguities that arise from the article. 7... they are obvious. To say that using a contract advantage is unfair if it is contrary to good customs... I have to say, it's a very, very risky phrase. It also refers to an unjustified termination of the contract or a threat of termination of the contract. What does that mean, unsubstantiated? But I was thinking that maybe we're just not able to write everything down here, and it's written pretty generally. After all, there are courts and a seller, a company that will be subject to certain restrictions, will appeal to the court and the court will rule on it. Then we'll have some Uzusses, we'll have an interpretation of which practices are acceptable and which are not allowed. That is why I did not intend to speak or oppose this law. I have learned here from a representative of the Minister, from a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, that the penalty imposed And the penalties are draconian, and it was said that it could be EUR 50 million, 3% of turnover is a powerful punishment. It shall be enforced immediately after it has been applied. Then you can appeal, then you can wait for a sentence, and in the meantime you stop functioning. Well, Senator rapporteur, what is this? I'm sorry, but this is an outrageous bill. Good intentions, everything presented very nicely, and then it turns out that we have a situation in which the company is completely dependent on the official, completely. This clerk can take her out of action with one move. And he will always have an argument: well, that's what I think, and ultimately the courts will decide. After all, in the past there have been such cases, that it was the decisions of the tax offices or the Social Security Offices that spread entrepreneurs on their shoulders. So the minimum should be here, the minimum... If this were to remain, it would either be necessary to make amendments like the ones Senator Augustine was talking about here, or it would have to be written down. I am unable to make such an amendment at the moment, because I simply did not believe, I did not think there was such a provision, but I was reassured by the Minister of State to make such a change, which would prejudice the execution of the sentence following the final judgment of the court. If that doesn't happen, it'll be a bill that I don't think the Senate should adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[It's just me, short-term.]] Senator Augustine for the second time. [[That's when he talked for 14 minutes.]] Mr. Senator Secretary reminds me that the senator has been speaking for 14 minutes before, but I understand it's short now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u19	Just a little bit. I just want to confirm, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, that when I brought this amendment, I took this into account and said that it could not be so that the entrepreneur would be able to appeal. At the committee meeting, I used those words. Not until after his funeral. Because if the punishment is so severe, he'll be bankrupt when it happens. I would just like to ask you, gentlemen, where is the principle that Prime Minister Morawiecki was talking about, that there will be a friendly treatment of entrepreneurs, that there will be trust and that there will be an assumption of innocence. I don't see it here. On the contrary, it is a very oppressive recipe, actually not giving the entrepreneur a chance to appeal, because first there is a huge punishment, and then you can think about the rest. So that he calls for reflection, because these are dangerous records.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Augustine. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We're adjourned until 11:55 p.m. And before your break, the senator secretary will read the announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u21	A joint meeting... My microphone's not working. I don't know why... Oh, now it's working. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the Senate meeting to the Act on Organisation and Procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal will take place on 2 December in room 182, 5 minutes after the announcement of the break. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: One more.]] [[One more announcement.]] And one more announcement. The Committee on Agriculture shall begin its deliberations immediately after the end of this part of the Senate's deliberations in room 217. [[Agriculture and the economy.]] Yes, agriculture and the economy. You're welcome. [[Yeah, and the economy.]] [[What room?]] Room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u22	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 11 to 11 minutes 55]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u23	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the present sitting has been extended by an additional day, i.e. December 7th of this year. We will resume the sitting on this day at 10 a.m. I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will take place on 13, 14, 15 and 16 December. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-seven of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 343. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted unanimously a draft resolution at its meeting on 30 November, which I will read. Act of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. Senate of the Republic of Poland on the basis of art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismiss Senator Barbara Zdrojewska from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I §2: The Senate elects you to be elected Senator to the Legislative Commission. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 63 for, 8 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 67]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendments In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. If the proposal to adopt a law is rejected, no amendments will be voted on. We'll proceed with the vote. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 29 for, 50 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 50 for, 29 against. [[Voting No 69]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senat print No 345 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 Senators voted, 77 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 70]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution in the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted in favour, 77 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate Print No 347 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 72]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on vehicle managers and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the conclusions put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is in print No 344 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Prof. Michał Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Commission recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendment. There was also a request from a minority to reject a law which had not previously been adopted. A minority of senators also tabled a series of amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u27	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u28	Let me remind you of the minority's request. [[Yeah, yeah.]] The minority proposal is based on the arguments of legal authorities, legal authorities, which explicitly claim that this law violates the foundations of a democratic rule of law, both the preamble to the Constitution and a number of individual constitutional principles of the rule of law. And that's why we think that this non-constitutional bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u29	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, you submitted conclusions to Senator Piotr Zientarski and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 29 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 73]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee, supported by the joint committees, to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 50 for, 29 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Organisation and Procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-fifth of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-six of the agenda: the law on countering unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the debate and produced a joint report on the subject, in print No 348 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation together with a summary of the conclusions. Today, applications have been considered. The Commission asks for amendments Nos 1 and 5 and 8 to be adopted. I'm asking for their support. I would also like to request a joint vote, if the marshal would allow, on amendments Nos 1 and 5 and 8 because... thank you. [[But wait a minute, Mr. Senator... did you file a motion? The vote...]] About the total vote on amendments No. 1.3 and... [[But I have another conclusion here: to vote together on Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8.]] Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-02-senat-31-5.u31	Is that the same thing? Okay, then. There's no objection? Well, I'm very happy for you. Would you like to take the floor, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn? [[No, thank you.]] We'll proceed to the vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8 are voted on together. They align the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] These amendments, namely Nos 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 8, were accepted. Amendment 4 closes the catalogue of practices which will be considered to be the exploitation of the contractual advantage. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 30 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 77]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 5 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 78 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 5 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 50 for, 2 against, 27 abstentions. [[Voting No 79]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in trade in agricultural and food products. Thank you very much. We're done with the vote. I'm declaring a recess until 10:00 p.m.... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: What about statements?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, will there be no statements today?]] No, how? At the end of the meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am announcing a recess until 7 December by 10 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 12 minutes 09]]
