ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Law on the Control of Certain Investments and consider it as point seven. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We return to the joint examination of the fifth and sixth agendas: the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office; the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office; the Law on the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Dorota Czudowska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Good morning to all on Saturday morning. [[Good morning, Senator. Good morning, good morning.]] [[Good morning.]] Good morning. Minister! We continue the discussion we had yesterday... [[Interrupted today...]] ...unfinished conversations. One of the main tasks that the state, the government, the parliament, has towards citizens, is to ensure security, health care, education and justice. At meetings with our voters, with people in different environments, this justice is indicated as important, immediately after security, as second. Complaints about the tardiness of the courts, complaints about infinity and misguided investigations, unfair convictions. Fixing the justice camera... You asked many times yesterday why we are so quick to proceed with the D.A.'s law. The repair of the apparatus of justice was included in the electoral programme of Law and Justice. As you may remember, on 25 October last year elections took place in Poland, and these elections won Law and Justice. So society, and if you don't want to talk about the whole society anymore, our voters, most of those who have gone to the elections, expect us to act quickly. We're also meeting with our constituents in the field, and I can say As it was mentioned here, as Mr. Fedorowicz plays his speeches beautifully, but I don't have a cell phone here and I don't have such talents. That my constituents, our voters, and it's true, everyone says, "Don't take a step backwards, not a step backwards." We had to press that gas pedal to make up for those eight years of losses. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] Yes. That's why we're doing this so fast. [[Applause]] And the fact that we are right, ladies and gentlemen, bears witness to your resistance. We promised the Poles I will use the words of Julian Tuwim of the Polish Flowers. Let the law always mean the law, and justice is justice. [[Applause]] [[Oh, yeah, that's right. That's it. So be it.]] For several hours now, there has been a debate in our House, in the Senate, on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Questions, then disbanded discussion... How much concern, such a false concern that, so to speak, we have heard how many crocodile tears have been shed over the supposed new customs prevailing in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, in our House. Gentlemen and ladies of today's opposition cannot remember that such customs were also in the previous term of office, because none of you have ever been at night. So how can you remember they were like that? [[Applause]] [[How wasn't it?]] And when I once dared to ask the Marshal if we could conduct the deliberations, when there is no quorum, I was too much to give up then that during the debate there might be no quorum, there may be one person in the Chamber, and there may be no one in the Chamber, it is important that there are microphones to record it in the minutes and that journalists can then pick up more tasty bits with our sometimes tired discussions. So that it is nothing new, ladies and gentlemen. And I pay attention to these many empty and untruthful words. Mr. Senator Klich It is good that you are present today, yesterday in your speech, that during your term of office... during the reign of the PiS during the years 2005-2007, some uncircumcised things were happening here. Several dozen proceedings have been opened against Minister Ziobrze, he has been harassed all these years and all proceedings have been terminated. [[And Dr. Garlick?]] The law hasn't been exceeded... [[And Dr. Garlick?]] [[He lost.]] There was also a sentence... [[...convicting.]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't comment, very unelegant. Please don't do this. You can speak later.]] We are accused that we are working at such a rate and that we are not following deadlines. And yet as important a bill as the oncology package The ones who were there remember... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen of the Senators, please...]] At the Health Committee meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. Please don't disturb the senator. You're welcome, Senator.]] At a meeting of the Health Committee before the Senate... Last night we got a hot one, straight from the printer, a bill. There was no mention of that... Of course, we knew her, because as part of our work on the bill, we followed what was going on, but it's hard... We even tabled amendments, knowing what's in this bill. None of our amendments have been accepted. Today's oncology package all oncologists want to throw in the trash. Me, too, because he made it harder for me to do my job and he lowered... I mean, he caused financial losses at my facility. As most of you know, I'm an oncologist. So this is nothing new. With such care, you ask whether the Attorney General will be a dilettator, such a word has been spoken. Was it the prime minister's historian or the prime minister's doctor? And did you call a dilettant a teacher who was entrusted with one of the most important resorts in the country? The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of Interior and Administration? She was a teacher. Did any of us ever accuse ourselves of dylanism at the time? Did you notice that this is dylanism? [[They're just ridiculous...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Exactly. There were also certain flavors in this discussion. I found out, we learned from this discussion that Krakow is only 150 thousand inhabitants, because Senator Fedorowicz said that half of Krakow were his voters. (Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz: Less, the rest is Mr. Klich...) [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But actually, together...]] You received 72,000 votes. From this simple conclusion, Kraków has 150,000 inhabitants The other is Senator Klich's voters... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, we just don't... we have eyes and ears, and we hear things, too. It's not worth it. It's not worth it. And I would also like to talk about what attracted my attention, and not from now on. A discussion in the Senate, a reflection chamber... It's been said many times here. Also yesterday in the discussion about what kind of House we should be. Me too, coming to the Senate almost 20 years ago, coming now also through these two terms, I expected And 20 years ago, it was like this. The discussion here, however, is going to be a little academic. There are a lot of dorms in our group. And what do the dorms know? That twice the same question doesn't repeat itself. If the student asked the professor the same question twice, it would be simply deleted. There's no situation where you say yours and you leave. If there's a discussion and you're in it, you're sitting from start to finish, unless there's an unforeseen situation. Someone's gotta leave. So here's the thing: we're gonna say ours and outside the Senate, the rest of the arguments we don't care about. Here I will mention this maybe many of you the famous story of priest Józef Tischner from the History of Philosophy in Highlander. I won't speak highland because I can't, so maybe it won't sound like it. The mountaineers in their village decided to start a school. Students were admitted to this school, and these students were commanded not to ask any questions for the first year. All they had to do was listen. Why? Because, as the Highlander explained, people ask, but they don't ask. And, for example, Antek goes on Saturday afternoon with a fishing rod on his back, with a bucket, in the galoshes towards the river. Jozek meets him and says, "Where do you think you're going?" He didn't ask the right question. You know he's going fishing. Or on Sunday dressed up Kaśka with a rosary in her hand, with a book on her way to church, and Hank asks her, "Where are you going?" You know he's going to church. Because people ask, but they don't ask. And in this school, the question wasn't allowed to be asked until a year later. He asked me well to stay. And he was wrong to ask. He was fired. A lot of us wouldn't graduate from this school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator in what formula? [[I was quoted...]] Okay, but... [[In the formula of correction.]] [[Correction!]] But this is information, we know... But does the senator want to speak? There you go. [[Because I was quoted, I'd like to...]] [[Correct, correct.]] What kind of formula? [[In the formula of correction.]] Please, you have 3 minutes, up to 3 minutes. [[But what correction?]] There's a formula. The corrigendum, the replicas. There's a formula, and the senator wants to use it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u4	Mr. Marshal, Senator, thank you very much for being kind enough to quote me twice because I was born in the Polish Spa in exile... I got a text saying I'm quoted by you... And thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Esmesy, you get it all the time...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now speak to Senator Jerzy Wcisla. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Czudowska is accusing us of pushing the Law and Justice off the highway, after which he goes... We're going to the law, to the State of Law and Justice. Well, I think it would be good to go back to the county road, the national road, where it doesn't go so fast. Because it may turn out that this highway will end on some manoeuvring and you'll have to turn around and make up for the speed you're showing today. [[It was the PO that was building, so you can expect anything.]] And I'd like to say a little bit about this road. Laws on the prosecutor's office contain many solutions that raise legal doubts and even be judged directly as violating the law. A joke, ladies and gentlemen, is that the law of the prosecutor's office is based on laws of dubious legal and substantive correctness. For example, the Act provides for the establishment of an internal department at the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The department's supposed to deal with possible criminal acts by judges, prosecutors, asses. The purpose of creating such an authority is to directly question the environments evaluating the draft law. The first President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland claims that the designer did not put forward any arguments for the application of such a solution. The Attorney General considered that there was no justification for the separation of the National Public Prosecutor's Office from the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The Chairman of the National Judicial Board states that the drafter has not put forward any arguments for the application of such a solution. And Minister Święczkowski yesterday argued that it was worth calling such a department, even for one instance of injustice among lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, it's kind of like shooting a fly out of a cannon or putting a bodyguard on every bag of socks. Does every goal really justify the means used? Although this initiative has been criticised by these important institutions, this problem has not even been discussed by the committee discussing the draft law. There are more examples of problems identified in the legal opinions on the law on the prosecutor's office, not adopted by the committee. Isn't that proof that the rush to proceed with this bill didn't allow Members and Senators to get a good look at this important bill? Because it's hard to believe that parliamentarians aren't interested in lawyers' doubts about billings. Isn't that a good enough reason to go back to law enforcement and analyse the concerns of the legal community? Or is it that designers are afraid of confronting the opinions of these environments, and that's why they are in such a hurry to pass laws? Maybe it's like what some people say, for example. This internal department is primarily needed to ensure that the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice in one person have a tool to exert political pressure on the subordinate judicial and prosecutorial environments and can only pursue a well-known staff policy? The matter of the internal department is merely an excuse to show that rushing and avoiding effective discussions about doubts raises questions about this second bottom, about the existence of others, in public discussions hidden, the intention of this haste and certain solutions applied in the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you will speak to the senator, Marshal Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First of all, Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that with all those who mourn here so much that at night we work, I completely disagree. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But it's important for the marshal to hear it. [[Of course.]] I would like to declare, Mr. Marshal, that I am always ready to work at night. [[Thank you very much.]] Name obliges something, my name. [[Yeah, to work at night.]] [[Night mark.]] Yes. And one more preliminary remark, Senator Chudowska. The senator was kind to say that most voters voted for Law and Justice. That's not true. The vote was 37%. You have a majority in the Seym, but this is completely different. Unfortunately, because of the stupidity of my beloved left. Anyway, you didn't get the votes of the majority of the voters. Okay, now let's get to the point. For many years there was a personal union of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General in Poland. It's not new. When the Minister of Justice was a prominent lawyer who was not a member of any party, allegations of the political nature of prosecutorial decisions were rare. When it was pure water of politicians, from different groups, any decision which could be attributed to the political character, this was the nature attributed. The creation of an independent prosecutor's office has silenced these charges. And this is our great achievement. The apolitical prosecutor's office. However, the rules governing the functioning of this body have not been improved. And it was a serious omission from the previous government. Prosecutor Seremet's proposals to improve and improve the effectiveness of the prosecution were rejected by the previous government, mainly by Jarosław Gowin. Today, the PiS, instead of making the necessary changes to these regulations, but maintaining the independence of the prosecutor's office, eliminates it. But now I'm gonna say something that might surprise some people. If I had the guarantee that both of these functions would always be carried out by a properly educated, law-abiding man who did not practice populist demagogy and public games, who could leave his political sympathies at home, I might not raise my hands behind this project, but I would not protest against it violently. But after all, gentlemen of the Senators, this enormous power, even greater than in 2005, you are handing over to Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, who does not meet any of these criteria. I'll try to justify it. First of all, why is there a provision in the proposed law allowing the prosecutor-general to disclose the material from the investigation to unauthorised persons as well? Between 2005 and 2007, the law did not give such consent, and yet it turned out that the then Minister of Justice and the Attorney General in one person provided such information to his political boss Jarosław Kaczyński. Today, in this bill, this is being sanctioned and this practice is being pursued with complete impunity. Minister Święczkowski explained here that this case was the subject of a court case and the court did not see the infringement there. But if that's the case, then why put in the recipe right now? It means you could have... So there were doubts about this. Secondly, in Dr. Garlicki's well-known case, he made publicly famous and outrageous words: "No one will ever be deprived by this master's life again. He said it two days after he was arrested, before he brought the case to court. The notabene case is still pending. So the Minister of Justice simply publicly violated the fundamental principle of law, i.e. the presumption of innocence. This was later stated by the Polish court, which was also stated by the court in Strasbourg by ruling in favour of the victim of EUR 8 000. But who paid it, or the Treasury, or Mr. Ziobro out of his own pocket? I don't know. Thirdly, Minister Ziobro introduced, and in any event, approved the arrest of suspects at 6:00 a.m., escorting them in handcuffs in front of television cameras, which meant publicly branding them, although their guilt has not yet been proven. It was a populist publicist game, which in the case of Barbara Blida ended tragically. Fourthly, Minister Ziobro was one of the authors of the provocation against Andrzej Lepper. This was a serious violation of the law, and the head of the CBA, Mr Mariusz Kaminski, was sentenced to prison. Fifthly, as part of the continued harassment of Lepper at the press conference, Minister Ziobro pulled the recorder, called the nail, out of his pocket, suggesting publicly that there was a discrediting Lepper's conversation with him. If he actually made this video, it was completely illegal. If not, and only bluffed, he presented himself as a completely frivolous man who should never have held such a crucial position. Sixthly, in August 2007, Minister Ziobro informed on the Oh, yeah! The press conference on the break-up of the so-called Warsaw Agreement in the Warsaw Council, the corruption agreement. Yesterday, after 8,5 years, the court legally acquitted all the defendants. But in the meantime, many of these people's lives have just been destroyed. The prosecution was mainly based on the testimony of Bogdan T., addicted to drugs and alcohol, and Iwona Z., who, in order to avoid arrest in another case, charged the designated persons. The acquitted will claim compensation and will pay the Treasury. This was the case at the time with prosecutors under the leadership of Minister and Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra. After seven days, a very important sentence was finally passed a few days ago, but before I can tell you what's going on, a few words of introduction. As it were, an attempt to accuse the then president of PZU, Mr Jaromir Netzl, of some illegal activity was a scavenger of the ground scandal. These allegations were not confirmed, but Mr. Netzel, before the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, stated that Minister Ziobro, in telephone conversations, suggested that if he testified properly, he would retain the chair of PZU president. Because these conversations were recorded by... I don't know if the CBA or the ABW, he recommended the committee to take note of them. Unfortunately, all of a sudden it turns out that all the other recordings are there, and they're missing somewhere. Mr Netzel then suggested that it was Minister Ziobro who made sure that they could not be found. Zbigniew Ziobro, not as a minister anymore, sued Mr. Netzl for defamation. The recordings have been wonderfully found, unfortunately they're classified. But not for the court. Well, the court of first instance acquitted Mr. Netzl, and recently the court of appeal confirmed that judgment. However, the most important are parts of the justification of the judgment. They show that Zbigniew Ziobro actually illegally recorded a conversation with Andrzej Lepper. Not much, the court, based on the testimony of a close associate of Minister Ziobra, stated, quote, that Zbigniew Ziobro did not avoid audio recording devices, also in a hidden way. The court also found that the discussions that the Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro had with Mr Netzl, a witness in the case, should not take place at all and raise serious objections. You can still quote that justification, but that's enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the decision on this bill is not made in a personal vacuum. We know who's pushing her and who's gonna do it. This law gives the Minister of Justice unlimited possibilities to influence every investigation. How serious can it be to ensure that prosecutors are independent? After all, the Attorney General can give them any order. How to conduct and end proceedings Or hold press conferences on a given investigation and disclose whatever he wants, even without the prosecution's consent. And if this D.A.'s gonna be rude, he can always be dealt with by Internal Affairs, just one tip. Zbigniew Ziobro likes to look like a sheriff, but a sheriff who chases a criminal hiding in a crowd is too easy to pull out a colt. One time he hits the bad guy, another time he hits the bad guy. An innocent passerby. For an explanation, he has a famous saying: where wood chops, chips go. Except these chips are people, and that's not what they're gonna do. Mr. President hasn't signed this bill yet, and we've already seen what's coming. Mr. Patrick Jak, Deputy Minister of Justice... By the way, I must tell you that I cannot be surprised that a man of such qualifications and manner of being, like Mr. Patrick Jak, becomes Vice Minister of Justice in a proud 38 million-dollar country. [[Applause]] Well, Mr. Patrick Jak, as we all know, accused in polemics from the stand of Mr.Citizen Platform, Mr.Kropiwnicki, of renting an apartment for a social agency. Notabene is not true, but that's not the point. [[He's already apologized.]] [[Only at night.]] Very good of him to apologize. Very good of him to apologize. Just, ladies and gentlemen, this shows how you want to perform this function. It would therefore be expected that the Prime Minister would react decisively. The Prime Minister responded: she said that Mr Patrick What is a great vice minister and there is nothing to talk about. [[And well-educated.]] [[Voice from the room: What awaits us...]] That's what we're gonna do. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour of this bill, and without amendment, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, this is the second time you've let the genie out of the bottle. Once you can make a mistake, but don't jump to conclusions and be wrong twice is... You'll find out for yourselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u9	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! And yet it's not just a genie, it's part of the architecture. We still need to remind you of that. I'll go back to that in my speech. This is one of the last elements to build a completely different country, the PiS. The Constitutional Tribunal is no longer functioning... [[It doesn't want to work.]] Key posts have been filled with political officers for several days without competitions. Public media, which were so irritated by non-objectism, were completely taken over by people who were submissive and subject to political decisions. Yesterday we were discussing the Police Act, which also increases the powers of special services to download data from the Internet. And today we're considering the D.A.'s Attorney's Office Act, the D.A.'s Office you've been complaining about. From this tribune, too. It was politically available even though it had an independent status. And according to the obvious pattern of the remedy for this is to be total politicisation. It is not a question of discussion that a number of things need to be improved in the prosecutor's office, and there is no doubt that it needs to be made more efficient. But it can't mean political manual control. Improving this efficiency is a solid task, it is a thorough monitoring of compliance with procedures and good accounting for results, but not manual control, not dictation, who, who, the prosecutor, to whom and to what extent he is to do. And the bill makes it possible. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like to ask yourselves what country the Court cannot operate in? Where are the offices filled only with party officers? Where do we increase the authority of the service? Where does the D.A.'s independence interfere? Where does the political media care? What adjective fits such a country? That's the context, and it doesn't seem like there's going to be any agreement to keep going in that direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been asking about the article in particular. 12 of this law, because he is quite crucial in my opinion, as you just mentioned, Marshal Borowski, because he refers to those cases that were already mentioned here from the stand. He's legalizing them. I know that the state completely disregards the opinions of the authorities. In what state is authority completely ignored? And with regard to this article, which is so designed that you can do anything, because you can make available information about the activities of the prosecution, including specific cases, specific cases to any other person... This is unbelievable. There's no definition of who it is, just anyone: maybe you, maybe you. And of course, only when it concerns matters relevant to state security, but nobody knows what's going on. I in the case of matters relevant to the proper functioning of the State Dalgod, somebody tell me what's behind this? Of course, you can do it through the media. It's in §2 e.g. Putting it on Twitter, putting it on the Internet. All of this will be completely legal. I approached the Minister at the end of yesterday's session. He didn't promise me there wasn't gonna be a show. This provision aims to make suspicion a weapon to destroy anyone you want to destroy. And the judgment is looking forward to it, because the same law gives the possibility to dismiss almost indefinitely. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this article. 12 cannot be accepted and should not be accepted. I am making an amendment to its complete rejection and I am counting on you not to go that far. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of speculation here about why we're proceding the way the House ridicules the senators. Because what's happening has nothing to do with normal lawmaking. There must be an answer to the question of why. There could be a couple of them. I've already served one. It's about the architecture of the state so that people will start to fear again. [[Don't scare anybody...]] Secondly, it is also a matter of the fact that, while the Court does not function, it must distort the functioning of the prosecutor's office so that it cannot be repaired over the years. And that's why you're in such a hurry. Because if there was any excuse in the case of the Police Act in the form of deadlines, there is no such excuse here. Mr. Marshal, you have been called here several times, saying that you imposed such a pace. Why? [[And who are you to a marshal...]] We'd be glad to hear it if the minister says no, since the chairman of the committee says no... It would advise us to hear why we have to work under such conditions. What happened? Is the enemy waiting at the gate or what's going on? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these deliberations and the previous few have a symbol dimension. It's easy to read. This is bringing the legislative authority to the decorative functions. This is imposing the will of the majority without listening to any arguments. You're surprised we're asking so many questions. It's not like we have any other choice as an opposition. [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, the speaking time has already expired two minutes ago.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. You're wondering why... [[We're all listening, Mr. Senator...]] One sentence... [[Please don't tell me we're not listening, Senator. Everybody sits and listens.]] [[You speak so beautifully.]] [[You have to be logical, Mr. Senator. Well, how many senators are sitting here, Minister, I, we all sit and listen, and you say we're not listening. We're listening. Please finish your statement, because time is up.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as an opposition, we have no choice but to strongly protest and in inquisitive questions demonstrate our will to act for the sake of good law against all those who think they are for nothing. [[Applause]] [[And what did you do on the family committee of the previous term?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u11	Mr. Minister, come in. Mr. Senator, speak up. At this point, you can't take the floor. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to refer to the statements of the senators because my name appeared in the context of the alleged lack of denial of the fact that there will be no show in relation to the actions of the prosecutor. Well, none of this has happened. That's what the senator said. I, respecting other people's opinions, did not speak about it. [[Voice from the room: Liar...]] Under no circumstances have I referred to the statements of the senator because I am a well-educated and cultural man. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make very clear... This, of course, is what I said on my own behalf, but as a representative of the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, I would like to make it very clear that there is no basis for saying that the Constitutional Tribunal does not function. As far as I know, it's still functioning, the President is functioning, and the judge is ruling. Therefore, it can, of course, be critical of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, but I do not believe that the Constitutional Tribunal is not functioning. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, I would also like to refer to the cases that have been raised, the cases from 2005 to 2007, which would indicate any unlawful action taken by the Minister of Justice. The Attorney General. Well, I would like to inform the honourable states of the senators if you do not know that Dr. G. has been legally convicted of at least part of the corruption charges. [[And like this...]] [[How do you look?]] If... [[In the middle of it, there was...]] As far as the coal mafia is concerned, recently, in November there were convictions of members of the fuel mafia. I didn't take my sentence with me today because I didn't expect to go back to those cases, but I have that sentence with reasons. It's worth getting acquainted with. [[Well, well, well.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the processes in Poland in economic or corruption matters last for several or several years, and the acquittal sentences or the termination of proceedings due to limitation, unfortunately in Poland has become a standard. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice is working on a broad reform of the Polish judiciary, the justice system, so that judicial decisions are issued quickly, efficiently and reliably. If someone has been accused by the prosecutor unjustly, the case should be quickly identified and that person should be acquitted. It's the prosecutor's job to prosecute, it's the court's job to determine the guilt. As far as I can remember, there was no conviction of guilt in any of the statements of the Attorney General of the time, the Minister of Justice. [[What do you mean, no?]] And I'm gonna say in private that I know about the doctor, and I can only say one thing, and I can even sign such a statement that I would never want to treat myself in a hospital where the doctor would do his medical work. But this is my personal opinion, and I think I have the right to make it. Ladies and gentlemen, another matter. It's not true. And it's very clear that we're gonna have to stress this. That any footage of a wiretap was hidden. I would like to stress that as head of the ABW for the purposes of the preparatory procedure, I have declassified all recordings. It was only after the change of power and the case was brought back to court that these recordings were sealed. It's worth asking why. [[Well, well, well.]] There's never been any record of anybody's conversations, and he said it. the court as a result of its findings. So the charges concerning the then Minister of Justice Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra is unreasonable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. Right now, please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski. [[Counsel at rest.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The issue is serious, very serious when it comes to consequences, especially for citizens, and it is for citizens who have a clear conscience. The charge can be made to anyone, and then it turns out... Senator Borowski mentioned cases. [[He's starting to...]] Mr. Deputy Minister of Justice, not a lawyer, he's pressing charges... Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's something to talk about. [[Voice from the room: About the truth.]] And here's what we're dealing with... [[Voice from the room: oh, right.]] ...with the manual control of every case, it's a possibility. So the prosecutor's or his deputy's will is an absolute will for the conductor, regardless of the material, regardless of his position. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not even about this special department anymore, but right now the situation is that... and that's not what the Civic Platform says, that's what the prosecutors say: that there's a National Public Prosecutor's Council, that there's just a hidden verification by this apparent change in the names of the prosecutor's office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. After all, there are certain tasks that can be introduced within the same organisation of the prosecution's structures. But that's not the point. The point is that there should be an excuse to exchange people for new nominations. [[The voice from the hall: Ah, that is what you fear.]] No. Who's to fear? It is the citizen who fears the prosecutor who will be admitted without a competition, without verification. I understand that the competitions were fictional and we heard about it in the civil service. But I, ladies and gentlemen, have been a member of the National Judicial Council for eight years, and there were recognized among others. also prosecutors who wanted to be judges, but mostly referenda, assistants, on the basis of a competition, on the basis of a number of very objective criteria, from the evaluation of studies, through the application, opinions, through the examination of judges, prosecutors, through the opinions of patrons, through the evaluation of the college, general assembly, etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, here's what comes next. Old rule: mediocre, but faithful. Because if we reject... There's competitions in the courthouse, and the D.A.'s office isn't gonna be there. I'm asking you why. This is the area of justice. I repeat, I ask you why. I'm not talking about the fact that the Attorney General can be a person who doesn't have an application and doesn't have any practice at all, not just a prosecutor's practice, but a criminal one at all. This is really serious. It is not so, Minister, as you ignore yourself, according to the repeated favorite claim that where two lawyers, there are three opinions and therefore every lawyer can tell himself, and we, too, lawyers, have the right to our own opinion, because these opinions are all equivalent. Oh, no. No. There's the opinion of the first Supreme Court President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, unnominated by the Civic Platform of the Law Professor, elected by the best judges, most of the most outstanding law professors, who have great authority. I'm leaning on it. Because I think every lawyer has graduated from his university and has respect for their professors, at least most of them. And here we are dealing with the most outstanding, few, not only professors of theorists, but also, at the same time, with outstanding practices. And, ladies and gentlemen, I am based on this, not on some political opinion in which everyone says that the combination of these functions is a retreat in democratic standards. In this respect, we remain the only ones in the European Union. That's the progress? That's it. Raising standards? We're the only ones. [[Voice from the room: Germany, Netherlands, Belgium, France...]] No, it's not in one person... Ladies and gentlemen, check it out. I say it in a responsible way. In the European Union, there is no way that these two functions can be held as one person. It's not there. Check it out, and not until later... That's what this is all about: how easy it is to argue completely without preparation. That's the style. And continue, ladies and gentlemen. It's said that separation will bring about a demand to strengthen the independence of the D.A.'s office... Well, that's the justification. At the same time, she is deprived of this complete independence. I agree that I was a lawyer for 25 years, also in the old days, and of course I know that the prosecutor is not a total independent person. There has to be a hierarchy, it's clear, but within a certain range. And this is about the D.A. who oversees... But it can't be that he's at the same time running every case as a minister of justice. Of course, each one will not be in charge, but certainly often cases, please, with a political dimension. And what does it matter then, ladies and gentlemen, to press charges... Will it be the authority I ask For the public opinion, if he accuses a politician, for example, before the elections? You said that now... but Seremet couldn't be blamed. After all, he was indicated, chosen by... and it was said that his opponent Zalewski was closer to the Platform, therefore Seremet had confidence. And he talked about this sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński. Besides, as a member of the National Judicial Council, we have been welcomed and discussed on several occasions in the Presidential Palace. Well, ladies and gentlemen... Of course we need to strengthen the position of the Attorney General. Yes, of course, but not by combining these functions in one hand, not by creating a personal union. Come on. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been talk of these other people, there has been talk of this show... Ladies and gentlemen, what is the prosecutor's office called for? To uphold the rule of law and prosecute crimes. And it's just to do this, ex definitione, for public benefit, to, of course, serve society. It's the D.A.'s office and everything. And now it's said that if there's an action for this social purpose, it won't answer... What do you mean... [[Mr. Senator, time is up, please proceed to conclusions.]] Well, I'll take it. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill... [[Don't use it, just finish it.]] This bill is beyond repair. This bill must be rejected! And in my opinion, work should begin on the subject of amending the bill and strengthening the position of the Attorney General. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Piotr Florek You're welcome. He will now speak. Ten minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm about to file an amendment to the law on the prosecutor's office, and in this amendment, I'm about to go into detail. I would like to inform you, especially local authorities, that the prosecution also wants to intervene in the case of local government resolutions. However, at first I would like to point out that the Senate's mode of work for another important act is scandalous. I can mention a few laws about which it was very loud: the Constitutional Court Act, the Media Act, the Civil Service Act, the Police Act. And now we're going through some kind of emergency procedure again. I believe that these laws are not passed by the Senate, but simply pushed. Yesterday there was a discussion about the bill, whether it is a parliamentary project, whether it is a government project. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you can discuss this a lot, but just take the bill and perhaps not even the bill, and the Constitution of the Republic of Poland... And that's the rule of the article. 123 of the Constitution states that the Council of Ministers may consider the draft law which it has adopted to be urgent, with the exception of such projects and such projects, and at the time these special procedures are used in the proceedings 7 days, 14 days. So at least seven days earlier... And we're talking here. Only about government projects. The legislator therefore In fact, the Constitution, adopted by the referendum, considered that these government projects were important projects in which a special procedure could be applied, but not in parliamentary projects, which we often use. This provision is also transferred to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate of the Republic of Poland; it is Article. No 71, where reference is made to the so-called. Act of urgency. And now, ladies and gentlemen, another example of our proceeding over this bill. Last night, at exactly 1.10 p.m., these laws were published on the website, i.e. prints 74 and 75. During the rest of the session, the committee, as I recall, seemed to have met around 3:00 p.m. Ms Grażyna Sztark quoted the article at this committee meeting. 61 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, stating that the basic conditions for holding a committee meeting have not been met. I will quote this article: The senate papers and other material concerning the cases discussed at the committee's meeting should be delivered to its members no later than the day before the meeting. And then there's the rule that mouth. 1 shall not apply if a committee meeting has been convened during and in connection with the deliberations of the Senate. Since there is a record of these proceedings, I ask: did we have this item on the agenda of this session that started yesterday regarding the procedure of these two laws? It wasn't, so it didn't have anything to do with the session that lasted. This was introduced only later, i.e. this committee meeting should simply not be held, because the basic principles that should be observed during the procedure were not fulfilled. I was part of the committee's meeting. Of course, there was also the opinion of the legislator who said that unfortunately, but there was no time, as with all the previous laws discussed in the committee, and there is only the oral opinion of the legislator. At 9:00 p.m., we put it on the agenda, there was a change of order on the basis of the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. And in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 we read that in exceptional cases there may be a shortening of the term, with the consent of the Senate. I'm going to ask: what was the emergency yesterday, what was it, I don't know, a flood, a cataclysm? Well, I guess when it comes to the PiS, it's not sinking yet, so take it easy. There was neither a flood nor a cataclysm, and I don't think anyone put any pressure on us, and if someone did, it's against the law. So what was the special situation? As it turns out, all these laws are unique and are processed in such a mode. The legislator did not foresee this in the Constitution or in the law, therefore we are conspiring If we don't break, of course we cheat. All the time, it's the rules. Therefore, I ask how in such a situation I am to perform the duties of Senator. The law on the prosecution has 92 pages, 192 articles; the second law: 45 pages, 75 articles. To read it and get to know it... After all, this bill came out of the Sejm tonight, and it arrived at us at night. I'm sorry, but I was asleep. This time I went to bed before 24 o'clock. I don't know, I woke up this morning and it turned out to be. I don't know what came out of the Sejm, what the changes were. I found out this morning. So, to get to know it, and I'm not an expert on it, I'd like to consult experts, experts on it, because it's an important bill. I even have money for it because the Senate even gives me money for expertise. Therefore, I would like to do all this. So I'm asking you how I'm supposed to do the senator's job. I don't know what those procedures are gonna look like, but... I'm wondering if it's worth the vote at all. After all, today we are also taking the floor, and the outcome of the vote is certainly already known. But I'm still going to report an amendment right now. I understand I have a few more minutes. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. I need two minutes. Then I'll report an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, I propose that the entire article be deleted. 70. I'll quote him. Where a resolution or an order of a local authority or a regulation of a voivode is unlawful, the prosecutor shall request the authority which issued it to amend or repeal it or to request its revocation to the competent supervisory authority. I'm asking, then. Once again: If a resolution or an order of a local authority... Do you know how many local governments issue resolutions? I myself as a voivode had 170 thousand resolutions to check. And then, either the regulations of the voivodship are against the law... So what I'm asking is, who's to say they're against the law? On what grounds? After all, it's only a voivode when she gets a resolution that issues a supervisory decision. And if anybody wants to appeal, this is the Voivodeship Administrative Court, the Supreme Administrative Court. Who is to judge this resolution at this point for the fact that it is illegal? On what basis, then, is the prosecutor to ask the authority which issued it, to revoke or to refer the application to the competent supervisory authority? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a prosecutor's interference in local government. This is another surveillance. I'm asking if it's written somewhere, I don't know, in the law on local government, voivodship, county government, because it's interference, it's another surveillance. It is further stated in this article that in the case of a resolution or an order of a local authority, the prosecutor may also apply for annulment before the administrative court. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone with legal interests can go to court. And here you don't need a complete record, because this is a normal thing, this sentence is completely unnecessary. This gives rise to further powers for the prosecutor, who will be able to interfere in the resolution of the local government, as well as in the regulation of the voivodeship. Therefore, I propose an amendment to the Law of 28 January on the Public Prosecutor's Office on the deletion of the article. 70 in total. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u17	The amendment is unsigned, please sign it. [[I'll sign it now.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u18	Mr. Marshal, I will refer to your previous statement. Listening and hearing is different. I don't think we're being heard here. Someone may be listening to us, but few can hear us. We saw this yesterday during the discussion, when Mr Święczkowski, the Minister answered our questions and actually every second time, which the second question avoided. And we asked about very important, basic issues. Because what we're talking about today and what we were talking about last night, in the morning, these are things that concern all citizens. These are the most important things. It's a system thing. These are matters that come out of the constitution in which the notabene prosecutor general and the minister of justice are taken into account separately. Check it out. Such a record also shows the intention of our constitution. Think about it. You're changing the bill. And you have every right to do that. But not in such a way and without respect for the votes of the citizens and their opinions. Tens of thousands of people all over Poland, even in small cities, went out on the street to protest against the police bill, which is supposed to lead to Internet surveillance, surveillance of citizens. And the state today, probably voting unintelligently, is talking about this part of the room. You will give Mr. Ziobra the tools to control the prosecution's office, to manual control, to something that will have the same effect for you as in 2007. That's what you're gonna get. The words that will appear are surveillance... I'm reminding you of mining arrests. None of us have mentioned this, but such a concept appeared under Mr. Ziobra's rule, under your rule. What were those mining arrests? It was dragging and abusing procedures, it was harassing people, it was taking all possible measures. Are the prosecutors gonna be okay with the resources that we've had so far? No, they're not enough. All the cases against Mr. Ziobra testify to this. That's why this bill... We're talking about her, it's actually a bill written under Minister Ziobra. Under one man. So he could do what was criticized in 2005-2007. I'm talking about the PiS senators. You take responsibility for what's going to happen. You're putting a great deal of power in the hands of one man. You're handing over... Especially after what you've done with the Police Act. After your minister, Minister Kurski, became De facto Minister of Propaganda. So you already have a whole range of rights. Isn't it all? What other surprises are you planning for us? Minister Święczkowski seems to have betrayed something when he said that we are still facing reform of the courts. You haven't gone to court yet. [[And a lot of other things that need to be healed.]] To heal? You call that healing? [[Yes.]] We'll see. And I'm waiting, Mr. Senator, for who of you... [[I see these messers...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Don't interrupt, Senator.]] [[I see these bugs in Gdansk...]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me and allow the senator to speak freely. You're welcome.]] [[Who? Tell me who it is.]] I'm waiting... [[Senator, please don't disturb the senator.]] Dear Senator, we are discussing very serious matters here. And I'm looking at you. Some of those who sit here have professor's titles I look at you and wait who dares first, who will say first, who will say first, we go too far. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's not funny, Mr. Fans. It's really not funny. [[Senator. This is the senator.]] Mr. Senator, yes. [[These epithets are awkward.]] Which epithets? A fan is not an epithet, many Poles are fans. [[I'm asking for...]] I know your senator from this side. [[Senator, I ask you to speak freely and not speak to the individual senators. That's not necessary. I ask you to speak freely.]] Mr. Marshal, please keep your colleagues quiet... [[I shushed a moment ago. I think you heard the senator, didn't you?]] Not effective. [[Effectively. Don't pay any attention to me. I'm here for attention, not the senator.]] Mr. Marshal... [[These are provocations!]] [[Yes, sir. I ask you to speak freely and not provoke the senators. Please speak freely.]] [[That's right.]] Mr. Marshal, you're not here to draw attention, you're just... [[Mr. Marshal, we're asking for discipline.]] [[Oh, Jesus!]] [[He's driving.]] You don't... [[He's driving.]] Mr. Marshal just said he's been here since... No, you're not... [[I'm here.]] ...from paying attention here. [[That's the rule book.]] The marshal is here to be the marshal of all of us senators. And what you allowed yesterday when we asked for a break... We sat here at 3:00 a.m. Please note that after my request for a break, you fired some of your people. They went home. We stayed, we had to sit here. What kind of comfort do you give us? I also address you as a man. We're sitting here another day. We're sitting here. What the senators were talking about, without... [[It doesn't slow down culture.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please don't interrupt me. Maybe you like to work like this. You might like to work as fast as you can. However, we would like to prepare ourselves, we would like to consult with our constituents, we would like to consult, not work at night. Someone very beautifully said that only those who have something to hide work at night. Think about it. [[And the nurses, Senator?]] Senator, you got out of court early yesterday, you went to bed! [[What are you saying?]] [[Where'd they go?]] [[You weren't the one.]] And we stayed and had a discussion. [[You need some boundaries of decency! We sat until 3:00!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u19	Senator, I'm asking you to speak, not to debate and harass senators. I'm asking for a discussion. I would like to ask you to speak in the discussion on the bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, get to the point!]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Let's get to the point. Senator, get to the point. [[Mr. Marshal, I answered Senator Chudowska because she spoke to me.]] Well, don't answer that. Just please... For the second time, Senator, I would like to point out: [[Don't argue, it doesn't make sense. Come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u20	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just finishing up because... I don't know, Mr. Marshal is probably not gonna charge me the time you've taken, interrupting me. It's a great way to interrupt someone. Congratulations, really. I'll get back to what you're doing, what you're trying to do. It's going to be a total state, it's going to be a state that's going to have all the tools to monitor citizens, to put them in prison. And we're not talking about people who are protected by immunity. We're talking about citizens here. And they remember perfectly well the times of 2005 and 2007. Anyway, tonight... last night, Mr. Święczkowski, who remembers the times well, told us how he acted in those days. We turn ourselves in, ladies and gentlemen, in the hands of the services, in the hands of the surveillance officers. We give our privacy to the Internet. It's all gonna happen to us. And once again, you will be responsible for this. And I'm waiting who's gonna say no first. Who's gonna be the first to tell Mr. President? That's what I'm waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u21	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[I didn't volunteer.]] No? [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Oh, it's the corrections... No, Mr. Marshal? [[I've been putting together...]] Oh, I'm sorry. Good. Then you're Senator Władysław Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u22	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Unfortunately, once again, we are all here in such a mad rush for power. Because it is, ladies and gentlemen, a rush for power. [[We already have power.]] We do this without consulting, despite the negative opinions of the experts. The ruling party is giving us a repeat of our entertainment. The new law on the prosecutor's office is another step towards embezzling another foundation, another independent institution. What's next? Are we threatened by the authoritarian state? I address my fellow Senators from PiS: say stop, I ask you very much. After all, you must be aware of what has already been said here, that sooner or later history will settle you. Perhaps after a calm analysis of what is going on, some of you will one day feel a disgust that has been involved in this crazy run for power. I'm asking you to think about all this. [[We used to ask...]] Now, back to the bill, let me remind you one more time. That's what my previous speakers said. That you are handing over an independent institution to one man, a political minister, who will be able to decide the fate of the entire prosecution. He will have the right to direct the prosecution, to issue orders, guidelines and instructions. Because of this bill, we will go back 26 years, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of an independent Attorney General, we'll have a political officer looking for proverbial hooks on politicians first and foremost opposition. The very giggle of history is the fact that the fullness of the prosecutor's authority will be held by a man who spoke in detail about this, my previous speakers, made a disgrace in the years 2005-2007, when, as Minister of Justice, he held show press conferences and manually controlled the prosecution. I would remind you that for his office we had a tragic finale with Mrs. Blida, as well as a public prosecution of doctors. Today, you state want to legally sanction this man's rule. I can see that... When we read the bill, we come across the following entry. Yesterday, your rapporteur professor, your senator, who also has doubts, I asked... This record is dragonflies, very dragonflies. It is the following: it does not constitute a disciplinary offence or omission of a prosecutor taken solely in the public interest. So you can put people in jail, accuse them for no reason, which is the worst, without any consequences. It will always be possible to say that there was an important social interest in this. It is possible to quote so long, to show further examples breaking the independence of the prosecution, but I am aware that this voter roller is deaf to words and requests and to any rational suggestions that are not in the way of President Kaczyński. After all, I will appeal, perhaps naively, to all independent thinking people of the PiS to vote against this disgraceful bill. By voting for her, you open up Pandora's box and it will have terrible consequences for our country and its image. Maybe I'll witness the coming of this sobriety and maybe it'll be the last night that... normal people sleep at night. Thank you, senators, for your attention. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Pęk will speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In the beginning, I will say so jokingly that I was mobilized by my countryman, Senator Fedorovich, who with great fantasy said that half of Krakow was behind him and the other half was behind Senator Klichem. It is I who remind you that behind me, speaking Mickiewicz language, there are 3 counties, including Krakow's landowners, and 86 thousand voters. [[Third half.]] Yeah, that's the third one in Krakow. Secondly, Senator Marek Borowski, my name-maker, I would like to ask if, by saying that his name obliges him to sit at night, he means the night mark, or that he breaks like Saint Mark after Hell. But that's ridiculous, of course. I'm on my way to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is very emotional, and rightly so, because it's very important. Our political community has long stressed that justice matters are particularly at our heart and that there is a great deal of work to be done in this area, and there is a lot of negligence. The D.A.'s office certainly stood out here. I'm a lawyer, and I'm a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Office, and I've been talking to my colleagues about these cases. And I've noticed that there's a pattern in favour of the current system, that there's mainly an elite prosecutor's office, mostly members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council, and when you talk to private prosecutors in the area, it turns out that they have a lot of reservations about how the justice system works, about different kinds of mechanisms, about agreements, to a lot of, I would say, solutions that come from the previous political, economic, systemic system. So it's not like the D.A.'s community somehow denies our solutions. Surely there is a great expectation that a new comprehensive law will finally be introduced, which will finally introduce the Polish prosecutor's office into the 21st century. These modern solutions were discussed yesterday, and asked by me, the Minister. But we don't really discuss these solutions here. There are still two topics in the media: the subject of combining the role of Minister of Justice with the function of Prosecutor General and the issue of the independence of the prosecutor's office. And this principle of the D.A.'s independence is actually growing into some mythology. Well, once again, I stress what I said at the committee meeting: independence is not independence, and the prosecutor is not a judge. In our opinion, the prosecutor is primarily one of the elements of the state's criminal policy. This is a man who helps implement the rule of law in the state. And the prosecution needs to be placed in such a way that this criminal policy can best be implemented by the state. We believe that such an arrangement, in which the Minister of Justice is simultaneously the Attorney General, is a clear, consistent agreement and there are no understatements here. That doesn't mean that everything will work properly, without any charges. I'm sure there's a lot of unknowns ahead of us. We create a new system bill, we introduce new system solutions, practice will show how it works. However, there will not be such an ambiguous situation as today, that when there are some strong accusations about the prosecution as a whole, it is prosecutor Seremet who in a sense decomposes his hands: 'I have the powers that I have, I have the budget that I have, I function in such, not another system of system, organizational and basically What I'm supposed to do, and the Minister of Justice says, "The prosecution is independent." It's also a matter of clear responsibility. If we take responsibility for the state And we took this responsibility to a great extent, because for the first time after 1989, one political environment has a majority in parliament. We also expect that we will have strong, efficient, unambiguous instruments to implement our political agenda. But once again, I stress that when it comes to security issues, justice issues, these were not secondary elements of our programme, they were just one of our flagship demands. To quote a classic from your political environment, I will say this: it is at our heart so that our country does not exist theoretically. And we've had a lot of examples in the previous eight years, that the prosecutor's office so placed, so constructed the justice system didn't do its job. Ladies and gentlemen, two more words about the independence of the D.A.'s office, prosecutors. This independence, of course, is an important value, but it must be included in the fact that it is intended to serve this supreme principle, which I spoke about at the beginning, and it must also be incorporated into the fact that the prosecutor's office operates and always functioned everywhere in the world as a single and hierarchical institution. And there can't be any artificial breach here. Two words about the National Public Prosecutor's Council I'm a member of. Well, without much regret, I will no longer be a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council after the entry into force of this law, because I was there for a very short time, because these nominations were not so long ago and only a few meetings took place I'm the one who got the impression that this is some kind of weird body. On the one hand, it consists of appellate prosecutors and others, on the other hand, A group of politicians, 2 senators, 4 Members, representative of the President. Well, we do. Literally, we dealt with personal issues of prosecutors, some promotions, pension issues, and I wondered why I should actually speak on this subject. But I was also involved in the adoption by the National Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Public Prosecutors of a resolution that criticised the solutions adopted by my political community. So it was some kind of bizarre ambiguity, actually it doesn't know what all this was supposed to do. I already prefer that these solutions, which are proposed in the new law, be protected by the independence of the prosecutor's office, and these political aspects are clearly linked primarily to the fact that it is the Minister of Justice who is at the same time the Attorney General. And by the end of the day, I'm gonna say yes. However, with great hope I approach these solutions, I believe that this law contains a number of modern solutions, such solutions that will finally equip prosecutors with new instruments, especially those to combat new challenges in the field of crime, organised crime, cybercrime, terrorist crime. This is also of great importance because of two very important events, and maybe it is in what sense And the answer to the question of why we're in such a hurry. We are catching up on many years in these areas, and this year, as you know, we have in Poland both the NATO Summit and, above all, the World Youth Days, which for our country, for our justice system, are a huge challenge for all services in terms of ensuring security and possible effective response in the area of terrorist crime threats. Finally, a few more comments. Senator Zdrojewska had an emotional speech about what conditions we work in. Well, I'm a beginner senator, I don't have any experience as before, but from my observations, I don't think our nightly deliberations are I'm already getting to the punch line. It's our fault. Our deliberations are dragging on mainly because of the opposition. [[Yeah, platforms.]] The opposition is stalling, obstructing, making some ridiculous requests for secrecy, which are taking away practically all day. [[Applause]] So there's a lot of hypocrisy. Besides, although this does not concern today's agenda, I do respect and like Senator Zdrojewska. I must say that you have spoken a lot about how you like to prepare yourself for the deliberations. But yesterday, when you were discussing the resolution on Poland's baptism, you gave a show of non-materiality. Your speech was outrageous to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u25	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wach... [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] [[She'd like to correct it.]] Senator, in what mode? [[In replica mode.]] [[I'm entitled to a replica. My name came up. The Lord summoned them. In replica mode, I have the right to do so.]] Yeah, yeah. I'm just asking for mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u26	We heard it was the opposition's fault that we were sitting here at night. No. We would very much like to sit today. We were sitting here on New Year's Eve. Most of our club, or at least a lot of it, spent the New Year here because she couldn't go home anymore. We also sat here on Christmas Eve, ladies and gentlemen. [[And Easter.]] And it is not the opposition's fault that the state is proceding in such a manner and that resolutions come to us and must be adopted for the next day. It's never been, and it's embarrassing for us, for the Senate. And you're well aware of that. I would like to say that the basic principle is good work and preparation. Yes, Mr... [[Senator.]] I like you, too, and I respect you. But how can we prepare to work on the bill that we got yesterday while working on another important and important law, about the police? So let us work, let us prepare, give us time. And please don't let us sit any more at night. Thank you very much. [[Not about that.]] Oh, one more thing. You were talking about emotions. It sounded pejorative in your mouth. I think I have the right to be emotional because of what's going on in our country right now and how we are law here in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u27	Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd start by saying that I think that this kind of procedure over the bill that's taking place is a runaway. And I don't think so because we're up all night. I am saying that this is mainly because it is a parliamentary project. It's not a law that forces us to pass it at a certain time. Here, for example. The matter of the week should not play a role. But this runway is also about the fact that actually we as the opposition do not get an answer, above all the political answers that concern this project. Because the very good rapporteur reports closely what was at the committee's meeting and the committee treats the content of the resolution very carefully because of the lack of time. I can't accuse Professor Severinski of anything, but that's the way it is. At least the professor said that he would present his reference, probably politically, in the discussion. Besides, I think he's gonna be the next speaker. And the Minister For which I also have respect and recognition, because he answered precisely, repeatedly and difficult questions, and repeated He also avoided political statements. I would say that this was rather a reporting and a technical response. And that was also needed, because we were not sufficiently familiar with the content, and not all of us understood it. It's just that political responsibility is actually fading away. And where is she? With your president, and in this case perhaps mostly with Minister Ziobra. Therefore, this issue actually does not exist on the applicant's side, and that is not fair. As far as the law is concerned, the main charge against this law, in my view, concerns the merger of the role of prosecutor general with the role of minister of justice. This is not a discovery, all the opinions spoke about it, e.g. The opinion of the Supreme Court President calls such an omnipotent or omnipotent position. I very much agree with that. This is borne out by many specific points that have been raised in opinions and by my previous speakers. This includes the depth and the possibility for the Attorney General to interfere with investigations, and there is also a whole range of media contacts, as the Attorney General does not need either the involvement or the consent of the prosecutor conducting the investigation, and in the case of This is the result of the opinion and the content of the provision If, as a result of these contacts, there were, let's say, a talk, a civil trial and there was a question of compensation, these costs would be borne by the State Treasury. And the problem is that politicians can use media, they can use adverts from ongoing prosecutions and prosecutions for political purposes to make political profits. Come on. In my opinion, it is also possible to criticize the treatment of prosecutors themselves. As if their position is independent and good, the Minister was asked about it, but the existence of the Internal Affairs Department is already an open threat. The possibilities of transferring prosecutors, which was also raised yesterday, are also part of this sphere. So that criticism of this main point is justified. I would say this: this law, along with the Police Act, which we passed a little earlier, is almost closing the process, which I would call state ownership. This prerogative is to bring all the spheres responsible for the rule of law in the state to one authority, or actually to one person. I have no objection to the Party of Law and Justice. She wins high enough, she has the right to try to do whatever she wants. I'm sure he means well. But it's against the constitution that the Constitutional Tribunal is being incapacitated. And that's where you get resentment. Our constitution in relation to the political party's too strong position Once again, I'm not surprised you want to use it. It's got fuses. These are the position of the President, who is not so weak at all, and the Constitutional Tribunal. In the meantime, in both of these spheres, we are disappointed. President, in my opinion. Not only in my own, but also in many commentators At the moment there is no position or does not want to present an independent position. Is it because of your views or because of your party affiliation? It's just unintelligible. I, of course, don't know what the President thinks, but the speed of his actions and the way he swears the judges testify. This is not just my view, it has been expressed repeatedly. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, we have been investigating this and we know what it looks like. He actually exists, judges have as many as he should have at the moment, but his practical and forward-looking paralysis is determined by the provisions of the bill. You're saying that it's not true that the order has actually been made in this area. Here is actually the only light in the tunnel that I would say, because the Law and Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed, or rather invited the Venice Commission to issue an opinion on the legislation and amendment concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. This is a very important matter, a very important matter. As I know from the press, a delegation of the Venice Commission with Mr Buquicchio will come to Poland and talk to the government, and with the Court, and with Parliament, so that he will get an opinion. As far as the Venice Commission is concerned, it is my experience that The Venice Commission is formally very weak, as it is actually a kind of auxiliary agenda of the Council of Europe, but its international position is extremely strong, its opinions are extremely respected. As far as the formal documents are concerned, at least the ones I had in my hand, because I encountered when monitoring one of the deadly republics, namely Moldova. It's the committee that gives the amicus curiae brief, which is actually a friendly message. So it is something very soft in the name, but as far as content is concerned, it is a very thorough and detailed analysis, and it is also a relatively soft recommendation, which should be done to ensure that the body in question is very often functional and that human rights and conventions are respected. Failure to comply with, I would say, recommendations or opinions of the Venice Commission by the country on which it issues its opinions is quite common. All the countries I've met From Azerbaijan through the one I've been monitoring with Mrs. Lise Christoffersen from Norway, and for five years I've been doing it so that it was a process. In fact, they avoided doing it. Nevertheless, both the European Union and the Council of Europe, because of the change in the visa regime, by pressure as if they forced or forced it, but in principle forced it to do so. We are completely free on this issue. But if we as a country, as a Poland, as a parliament do not comply with most or to the most important elements of what will be in this possible opinion, then we will simply compromise ourselves. Our position will continue to fall and our capabilities will become smaller and smaller. All of this will create a dangerous, miserable sequence of events for the citizen to be prevented. And actually our opposition and our protests Sometimes it is not effective, including that we sometimes talk too much and ask too much of them to pay attention to it. And I also perform for this purpose, and I say it all actually sharper, more decisively than it is in my nature. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u29	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Professor Sewerinski. Come on in, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In fact, after my long speeches yesterday as rapporteur for the committee meeting, I am sure that you already know what my position is. But today I am speaking again, even though many arguments have already been made here in support of the bill, with which I agree, so I will not dwell too much on them. I want to speak only to make it clear that I am in favour of this law. I understand the reason why it was presented, passed by the Sejm, and I share these reasons. We have so far, because the old law still applies, the system of the prosecutor's independent, theoretically independent. We could paraphrase the statement of a well-known American politician: we had a dream that we would fix the prosecution in such a way that we would make it an independent body. Many of us hoped that this would happen. But a few years of functioning of this system, this model has proved that the independence of the prosecutor's office is fiction and that it cannot be settled, not only theoretically, in some place of the additional body, independent, alongside the three authorities referred to by the constitution, but that in practice also those guarantees of independence which were introduced into the law do not function. Even the opposition senators spoke of inadequacies and inadequacies, suggesting that these laws should be improved. However, there is something to improve the system. So the winning political formation, which takes responsibility for the reconstruction of the state, decided that it was better to return to the model of the prosecution included clearly In this sense, Yesterday I said: honestly to the system of executive authority which the prosecution is subject to and in which it acts under the responsibility of the executive authority as a tool in the hands of the state to ensure the rule of law and the fight against crime. That's why there's talk in this law about hierarchical submission; I understand that it's logical that that's why there's no competitions, but there's a nomination in the hierarchical procedure of appointing and dismissing prosecutors, and there are other elements of this system. That is why it is also the right for the superiors to issue orders to the prosecutors in charge. That is why there is a place for posting and transfer, albeit with the many reservations that the Minister spoke more specifically about yesterday. This is why it would seem risky, but also of interest, in my opinion, to the contrary, especially to the opposition, rules that say that the results of proceedings or proceedings can be disclosed, including disclosure to another person; this was probably the subject of the greatest concern and in the sitting of the committee, and in the statements of the state of the opposition senators in particular. I am convinced by the good example given yesterday by the Minister that we are revealing certain information that arises during the preparatory procedure, e.g. a liaison officer of the state who is interested in combating crime with our country. This is the other person. It's not like it's an organ in our political system. But someone could say that this is a little convincing example. I'll give you another one. And are we? We ourselves, as ordinary citizens, would not be interested to hear from the prosecutor in charge that we are at risk, ourselves and our family, and to disclose to us this information from the proceedings he received in the course of the proceedings? Then we're the other person. Wouldn't we want there to be a law to keep the D.A. from hiding out that he knows something, but he can't say anything? This is a matter of our vital security. To me, this is the most convincing example. And, ladies and gentlemen, so much has been said. I'm gonna allow that to happen because there's actually an incti with that police act yesterday. It's about the Internet. We're all clinging to the fact that we can't have full internet security. A very tall Interpol officer at one of the conferences in Brussels said with a little hangman humor that best not to use. Because can we deny that today the Internet is a very dangerous weapon of crime? So, what, we're not supposed to take advantage of the possibility of seeing what someone's up to on the Internet against us? I have no doubt that it is best not to use, but there is no turning back from it, as there is no turning back from using e.g. fire or gas or other dangerous energy including nuclear. There was also talk of general clauses. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to abuse my titles, here with a snack, they were spoken of today... If I'd known that, maybe I'd back off and not run for Senate because the title couldn't be cancelled, although some of them suggested that I give it up. General clauses in law cannot be avoided. There are dozens of them, there are hundreds, there are thousands of pieces of legislation in which they are used, and it's not meaningless. This is a very handy tool because it gives flexibility to the law and protects us from the casuistics of the law, but at the same time it is dangerous because it can be abused in interpretation. Are we vulnerable to these clauses? No, because there's a judicial review. Ultimately, the interpretation of such a clause, whether by the prosecutor or by anyone else, is subject to judicial review. Here, according to the constitution, this power is independent, this is the final control. Someone asked yesterday what would be better for the citizens, what would we say to the citizens. I'll have a press conference on Monday because my constituents are interested. And I'm gonna tell them, and I'm gonna ask them that question, and I'm gonna answer them. The fact that the government will not obscure itself with the independence of the prosecutor's office and will not protect its inability, and will not thus protect the chronicity of many proceedings, because it will regain control of the prosecutor's office and citizens will be able to demand from the government that this is real control. Yeah, it's gonna be a lot of power. I agree with Senator Borowski, I like to agree with Senator Borowski, because his reasoning is always very logical, and that is of great value to me. We give power, a lot of power to one minister, but there are control measures. First of all, all I'm gonna say is, It will produce the prosecution, it will be subject to judicial review, and that is control. And secondly, there is a political control, which the opposition already uses today and very well that it uses it. I am not surprised, I am glad that we have true democracy, that the opposition can speak day and night, can repeat its concerns and reservations. This is the debate that provides the basis for knowing the value or lack of the value of the law that we are creating. That's the way it's supposed to be. If we were all from the Law and Justice here, I'd be afraid that maybe we're a little short of opposition and that at least one opponent would be useful. [[But only one.]] [[One, but good.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Although, ladies and gentlemen, what I mentioned was not all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] We have control over what the prosecution is doing, not only judicial control, because in the end the prosecution presents its indictment or other proceedings to the court, but also political control, which is exercised both by opposition in both chambers of parliament and by voters. If the voters do not like our way of organizing the Republic, they will call us off. Then you'll be here. Or today's opposition, or maybe the one that comes in a few years from now. They had the opportunity to reorganize the Republic according to their own vision, because that is the nature of democracy. And besides, I'll add to the end. Even the greatest ministers are passing away. We do not create this right, contrary to the fears of some senators, for one specifically designated man... [[But Ziobro's coming back.]] ...because those people in all the offices, as we said, are and are leaving. We're creating an element of the system. I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u31	Thank you very much. I invite you to speak for Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! Good morning. In fact, I should say it's Ziobra's day. [[Fun in the room]] [[applause]] ...because this is the day when there will be a triumph of someone who has shown that among the qualities that are required of the Attorney General, there are those that he does not fulfill, because as to the integrity of his character you may have doubts on the basis of the facts of his life. I don't know if you should reflect on this, because the orthodox duration of a project is... To quote Orwell, orthodox means not thinking, not thinking; orthodox is unawareness. I hope, in the form of a joke, Senator Czudowska and Senator Pop accused us of either asking the wrong questions or asking too many questions. At a conference entitled The Freedom of the Press in 1972, this was the case: if freedom of speech means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they don't want to hear. It's also George Orwell's words, who wrote the warning works that you consciously or unconsciously, instead of ironically, take seriously and want to give us the Orwell-like state. In a time of widespread falsehood, telling the truth is a revolutionary act. It's also a quote from one of the classics. To get to the bottom of this, I would like to say that I share senator Borowski's view that such a far-reaching change in the role of prosecutor general and minister of justice may be exaggerated. I'm abstracting from who's the person underneath which it's sewn. Even if we don't know how to deny it, Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro is the Minister of Justice right now. We had a similar situation in the time of the late Minister of Religion, when it was not the communication between the Ministry and the NFZ and Minister Religa with his authority and his firm action, which led the NFZ to somehow submit to the will of the Ministry. It's been established who's more important and who's less important. But they're still two... In my opinion, there is nothing to prevent the attorney general from changing the legal legitimacy, competence and dependency of the prosecutor general so that this office is functioning smoothly and that communication between the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office is the best communication possible. There's nothing to prevent these people from being two. Senator Chudowska I'm sorry that this is the second time I've said anything. He says you're just right. It's very dangerous because the sense of infallibility is lost. And once again I quote Orwell: totalitarian states are a kind of theocracy in which castes ruling in order to maintain their position claim divine infallibility. This sentence came in 1946, which was 70 years ago, but unfortunately it is still valid. I see he's tempting not one who's in charge... As history teaches, temptation leads us astray. This very far-reaching draft law, the dangers of which have already been cited here many times, even with the sincere intentions of the legislators, will lead us to see whether we like it or not. For the implementation of the totalitarian state scenario. I do not see the point of making any amendments, because I believe that this law should be rejected in its entirety and a new law should be drawn up with a view to Only to improve the functioning of the justice system, not to create a apparatus of repression, which I hope no one would want to see back in power. The last quote, from the writer quoted here, from 1944: "Remember that dishonesty and cowardice must always be paid for. Do not imagine that for years you can practice serviceable propaganda for... any regime, and then suddenly return to intellectual decency. And another sentence, which, due to the ladies, I will quote in English :Once a whore remains a whore.A whore is an English brutal term for a woman of light customs. I would not like us to be involved in these scenarios in this Senate and therefore I will vote against this law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u33	Please take the floor of Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In yesterday's speech, I motivated why me and most of my colleagues, recognising these arguments, are concerned about this bill. There was a time for a substantive conversation that I like and prefer to move in this area. But today there are a few things that need to be said, especially after the speech by Professor Sewerynski, who presented your philosophy, the State of Law and Justice, your approach to the state and its institutions, and after the speech by Senator Czudowska, who used the phrase, appropriate to reality, to include the gas pedal. When this bill came down to the Senate, I remembered a youthful experience from a prison in the Załęże, where I spent some time as a 21-year-old prisoner in Podkarpacie. While I was in the Internment Unit, one captain of the Security Service, Captain Ziobro It has nothing to do with the minister, to be clear, I'd prefer to call him Captain Z. He was eavesdropping and recording the songs we sang in cell 238 to add animosity and sustain the morale of colleagues from the internment team. Suddenly it turned out that these eavesdropped and recorded songs became evidence in the process brought to us, the four of us, about public lying and disgusting the chief bodies of the socialist state. Well, there couldn't have been anything more absurd than admitting prison as a public place. This was picked up by our excellent attorney, the sacred memory of Counselor Kosiński, the defender of the still accused in Stalin's trials. D.A. K... And anyway, I'm gonna say, "A.D.A. Kalamiar." It seems that the living, although no longer practicing, justified before the court that the prison was a public place, while Patron Kosiński claimed that a public place was a place to enter voluntarily and from which it was possible to go out voluntarily, so prison could not be a public place. Finally, the court accepted our patron's opinion and just acquitted us. But this happened only after the suspension of the martial law, in October or November, probably in October 1982. One day prosecutor Kalamiar approached Kosiński's patron and said to him, "Mr. Counselor, now I wouldn't be the one to blame, but they told me to. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. But they told me to. Well, of course, the system that Law and Justice creates in Poland is not a reflection of the PRL system, at least I have no doubt about it. But certain mechanisms are universal. And in this bill, they told me to have its own place. That is why we oppose, radically oppose the possibility of superiors giving orders to each level leading the prosecutor in matters and formal and substantive matters. That's because they're gonna be like the D.A. The Intelman who's gonna do what the supervisor tells them to do. And since the highest superior is the political superior, or minister of justice, we can expect political motivation to collect materials against the average citizen, Jan Kowalski. This politicisation of the process of obtaining materials, collecting them, or conducting proceedings, is a fundamental mistake of this law. At the time I'm talking about it, I think the state remembers it. Rzeszowskie News from Podkarpacie quickly described the case of our cell 238. At that time it was easy to transfer the information that was made public within the PZPR body. And again, I have to say that these are universal mechanisms that can be applied with bad will. In view of these experiences, we are also essentially opposed to the possibility of disclosure to persons or other authorities, especially individuals, of information on the conduct of the investigation using such a general clause as the functioning of the State. And since everything can be planted under the functioning of the state, any information, including the conduct of a public lynch on the citizen, on every citizen of Poland can be transferred outside. We watched a movie, we remember a movie. This film is based on the life experience of Paweł Rey and Lech Jeziorski to be full of clarity Paul Rey, more liberal, Lech the Lake, more conservative. They are 2 Krakow characters, significant figures, one more connected to the current opposition, the other more related to the state. They've both been through hell. This movie is about this particular ghetto. And that can happen, I don't say, in how many cases, but it can happen for any citizen, if these mechanisms are introduced into the D.A.'s law. Senator Czudowska at the end referred to my professor and master, with whom I studied at the Papal Theological Academy and listened to his excellent lectures in human philosophy. Professor Tischner, not only in his publications, but also in his lectures, paid great attention, as you know, to the problem of freedom. Freedom was for him the question he was trying to explore the most. He even wrote a book about the unfortunate gift of freedom, fearing that many people would easily trade their freedom for security. Well, I guarantee you, Senator, that this will not happen in the case of the Polish people, because the Polish people are too proud to trade our so hard-to-regained freedom for the fictional security which under the pretence of yesterday's surveillance law or today's law on the prosecution of you and your political camp Poles propose. Poles will not go for this because Poles are not a dark people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u35	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u36	Since Senator Klich's last words were addressed to me, let me say, Senator, that I thought you would show a greater sense of humor with regard to my speech, in which I reminded you of Professor Tischner's words.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u37	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law, which we are actually discussing on the second day, changes the current model of the functioning of the prosecutor's office, creates a personal union again known from the years 2005-2007 between the prosecutor general and the minister of justice and again gives full power to the party's policy, a political officer, a maniad search, tracking and sometimes creating criminals, not only among citizens, but also among law enforcement officers, as evidenced by the creation within the Public Prosecutor's Office of the National Department of Home Affairs for crimes committed by judges, prosecutors, asses, etc. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 19 §4 Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, in accordance with the Article. 12 § 2 Attorney General, read: Minister of Justice, gets the power to provide information to any extent from ongoing criminal proceedings without taking into account the position of prosecutor who is leading the case. This information may be communicated not only to public authorities, to the media, but also, in specific cases, to any other person. The lack of a definition of any other person makes me suppose it's gonna be a conversation at a coffee table with a friend or anyone else. This other person should be defined or deleted from the provisions of the Act. Few of this, the State Treasury is responsible for any claims arising in connection with the transmission of this information. So the informant is relieved of any responsibility, at least financial. I am talking about this in order to convey to the Polish people my concerns about the future of our civil liberties, independence, the secrecy of sensitive data, etc., to draw attention to the current apparatus of repression. Reading the provisions of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Police Act reveals an image of a repressive, distrustful, surveillance state, and often provocative state. And a sample of the actions that these regulations allow, we had in yesterday's session of the Sejm, I am referring to the Member's case, and at the same time the Vice Minister of Justice, Patrick Jaki. It's not comforting... That is why with all my responsibility I will vote against this law because it is not a good law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u39	Thank you very much. I invite you to speak for Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a lot of words here that I don't want to repeat because they're obvious to me. We are at a time when the fate of the future of law in the Republic and the threshold of freedom really weighs. I'm convinced of that. The system of action itself, these night sittings is some kind of threat to the Republic of Poland, the laughter of Europe. Yeah, but we've obviously seen this kind of time. I've lived worse, so maybe I can handle it. I thought once... As an MEP, I was one of those people who led the senators to be elected in one-mandate districts. We're not party representatives. Even though she, if we act under her name, gives us splendor But representatives of the citizens. And that was the idea. Many of you will bear the burden of these very serious charges that are being charged in this Chamber in relation not so much to the legislative process itself, but to the person, to the past, to the person who is to exercise this authority. The past indicates... I want my constituents, who are watching me now, and all the people in Poland to read the minutes of the Senate meeting, the record of Senator Marek Borowski's speech, extremely precise. In many points, Professor Seweryński agreed with this, which is an authority in the field of law. This authority in the field of law in answer to my questions yesterday, why we are doing this so quickly, blamed the Senate Bureau, that... that it was not his fault, the law professor, the academic teacher, the decorated... As a man who is truly responsible to those people who trust me, I must say that this is not right, Professor. You should be helping us in this process. You said you would vote for this bill. I'm not surprised, because you're the representative of this formation. But if we have managed to bring about a situation that is in many European countries Where there is real democracy, the prosecutor is absolutely independent, and above all, he is not a politician... Mr Seremet, a Krakow judge and authority in this area, as Minister Święczkowski knows very well because he graduated from our university, and in my view he has proved very well in this position. And I've got it right completely different from the state. It is not easy in such a new, fresh democracy to exercise the independent authority he has received. He had many problems, but it was his position that you swore to the sacred memory of President Lech Kaczyński. So if we're changing that now, if the D.A.'s office is headed by a politician of the reputation we've heard about, it's going to be in my mind, to say the least, a huge step backwards. I say it with concern. You've noticed that sometimes I try to make this room a place where you can make fun and laugh and talk. Many of us are friends and cordially... But I won't feel responsible for what might happen, and the past allows me to think that a lot of difficult things can happen that... He'll give us God so we don't even try to dream about them. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for allowing me to speak. I am full of the worst feeling also because the Senate are educated and prepared people. And even if you don't take our amendments into account here, - Which is likely to turn out to be the case. This means that this form of democracy is not working so far. And I hope I'm a bad prophet, but I think we're heading towards a country that we really... As a son of soldiers who gave up health and life for Poland, I did not think of such a country, and such a country threatens us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u41	I invite Marshal Borowski to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to refer to three statements. First, until Senator Mark's speech breaks... To be honest, this emotion is holding my throat, because for 20 years I've been arguing with his father, and now I'm going to argue with my son, and because I'm longevity, maybe I'm still with my grandson. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Well, Senator Marek Pęk has brought up things here about the fact that it will be better as it is... I'm not gonna argue with this anymore, because I've already talked about it, and I'm not gonna go back to it, and we just have a difference of opinion here. In turn when he explained why this is happening so quickly, in one day, why he takes something of the Sejm at night, then it comes here and we also work at night, he said that we have a NATO summit and a youth meeting, so we have to act quickly, because there are dangers and the opposition is disturbing. Because Senator Marek Pęk is a young senator, I'm just following that kind of argument. Maybe he'll find himself in the opposition someday, and I wouldn't want that kind of accusation to happen to him. I think he took an example here from the Prime Minister, and that is not a good example in this case. The Prime Minister, being at the end of the day, as you know, promised a water supply. She then tweeted such a brief message where she said the following: there has been no water in the endpole for a long time; this is what needs to be addressed, not some political pushover. And last sentence, opposition, let me do my job! [[Joy in the Chamber]] As a result, the opposition interferes with the operation of the waterworks in Koniecpol. So I'm asking Senator Mark to break through his sympathy for his father and for himself so he doesn't go this way. Now for your second statement, Senator Sewerinski. This is the fixed point of the program. Mr. Senator compliments me, I compliment him. Well, the senator argued that those laws that raise such doubts, such as the fact that you can inform someone who is even outside the entire investigation, investigation, etc., can be explained to the citizen's interests. And he gave examples, I have to say, quite abstract, for example, that he will inform the liaison officer or someone who is at risk, etc. I don't deny it. These cases can happen. All I'm saying is that we weren't born yesterday, we've already seen everything, and we know that this information wasn't about liaison officers. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's just that. So I'd suggest you have some historical memory. He also said that there is judicial control and there is political control. As for the court, I agree. Indeed, you can always file a complaint, file a complaint before the court and wait for the trial, but with this political one it is a bit of a problem. I'm asking you, what is the political control of Deputy Minister Patrick Which? What's that? What can you do? You can't call him off, you can't sue him because he apologized in a minute, but what he said is what he said. And what can you do when Minister Ziobro held conferences that he accused people of and then, after eight years, turned out to be innocent? What's political control here? Here, on the basis of this argument, even after four years it is impossible to change the government, because the trial is still ongoing. So, unfortunately, there is no such control. I think we did. And that's what I'm sending to the professor. All we ask is... the coalition is known... and not the coalition at the moment, and the rulers have their views and pursue their ideas. But we're asking you to just look into things and maybe make things better. If you don't do it notoriously 'Cause it's already some law that raises serious controversy, which no amendment goes through. It's already some kind of blindness and it's dangerous. Finally, Senator Seweryński said that ministers come and go. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Ziobro is not passing away! [[Joy in the Chamber]] It doesn't go away. It's like a tub-rise. And aside from the matter of Minister Ziobra right now, let me put it this way: if any ministers have done any damage. And they were different in different governments. They're the ones who passed away, of course, but the damage's still there. And then the damage had to be done for a long time. Well, you all know that because once you were in charge, once in opposition... You already know everything. Third case. I would like to refer to what Minister Święczkowski said, which is understandable and defends the boss and argues, only a little bit next to what I said. As far as Dr. Garlicki is concerned, he was actually convicted of accepting, so to speak, donations, that is, corruption. But that's not what I was talking about. I was talking about accusing him of murder, killing a patient. And in this case there is no doubt at all: it was impossible to say what Minister Ziobro said. As for the coal mafia... That's right, the coal mafia, there was a sentence, etc., etc. But I was talking about the fact that a certain practice of public humiliation of people, which Minister Ziobro used, led to a tragedy in the case of Mrs Blida, whose notabene proved nothing. Now that the judgments... that the long work of the prosecution, courts or bailouts has become a standard That's what the Minister said. And that we have many pretensions and for the work of the prosecution, and for the work of the courts. About that, it's absolutely okay. Well, let's fix it, let's fix it, all right. It just doesn't change the character of the thing that someone was publicly accused and then, after many years, turned out to be innocent. Perhaps we will improve the judicial system and this will not be the case after 8,5 years, only after 4 years, but it will not change the form of things that the way these people were treated, and it was public, was wrong. Finally, when it comes to this ground-breaking case, I'm the one who's gonna have to deal with these tapes... Whether they were classified or not, it's indifferent to me. I was talking about it, reminding you of the whole story just so you know what the sentence I was talking about was, and where that justification came from. And that's why I'm going back to that justification for not having doubts, and mostly that's what I mean, that's what the court said. I would like to point out: the court has found certain actions of the Minister, Prosecutor General Zbigniew Ziobra. And these are actions that must raise doubts, far-reaching ones. Because we read: the content of the telephone call of July 13, 2007 between Mr Zbigniew Ziobra and Mr Netzlem was going to call Jaromir Netzl for questioning, but it may be surprising that such actions are being taken by the Attorney General, who is then the Minister of Justice. And further: it would be difficult to answer the question to which group of tasks of the Attorney General, as laid down by the law in force at the time, should include a call from the witness. And the Attorney General called him in, urged him to be a witness to a leak that wasn't handled by the notabene case. Because Zbigniew Ziobro, as the Attorney General at the time, was not an organ that directly carried out evidence activities such as witness hearings. Next: In the court's opinion, since the interrogator's intention was to prove that another witness was not true, the prior information of Jaromir Netzl about whom he would be interrogated is already for the interrogated with a signal that might lead him to the direction in which his testimony may or should be directed. Further: in the court's view, it cannot be considered appropriate to build such relations between a person who holds the position not only of the Minister of Justice but also of a prosecutor-general who is entitled and obliged to supervise criminal proceedings and those who are witnesses in such important investigations. [[It's been a long time.]] Yes, sir. And one last quote: it is not the role of the Attorney General to inform the witness about the subject matter of the case, to bring him out of the error on which the fact section focuses the attention of the investigators, even when the President of the Board of the stock exchange company with the participation of the State Treasury is the witness. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's stick to this, not those things. I to Minister Święczkowski and his role in this matter have no comments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u43	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please, in the procedure of corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I must speak on this last point, because judgments of the court must and must be judged. There are even legal forms, or voices, written for judgments by outstanding lawyers. So I can say this: unfortunately, the court which prepared this justification is not entirely familiar with the criminal procedure in force in the Polish criminal trial for a few ten years, Ladies and gentlemen. Well, the prosecutor, including the Attorney General at the time, could have used the standards of the Code of Criminal Procedure by calling witnesses in a telephone manner as well. It's not a novelty, it's an invention. This possibility also exists at present, if necessary. The D.A. can call a witness by phone, fax, e-mail, if he sees a need. This is not a novelty or an invention of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. To the rest of this justification, I also have considerable doubts about this, but I repeat: this only reflects a different interpretation of the provisions of the current procedure. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in that legal state and in the current legal state, the Attorney General could and can de facto and de lure conduct criminal proceedings. The fact that this is not happening or not happening is a custom, but the laws allow and allow it. The fact that the Attorney General was trying to bring an important and important witness to the hearing in such an appalling public opinion, an important matter from the point of view of state security, praise him for it. I'd like every superior of mine to show such a desire to assist the prosecutor in carrying out his duties in the future. In any event, I urge from this speaker every prosecutor in charge to support as much as possible the underlings of the prosecutors' investigators in the conduct of the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u45	Thank you very much. Please take... [[Corrigendum.]] Mr. Marshal Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u46	So we have a very narrow discussion field right now. I understand there's no doubt about the rest of this. In this case alone, I will say that the court, yes, did not refer to this case, saying the following: of course, in cases of urgent urgency, a witness may be summoned by telephone, of which there was an article. 137 k.p.k. However, it is unusual for the Attorney General to do such activities The Minister of Justice who simply doesn't lead this case. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: The Superior can help.]] [[That's the point.]] This is case one. And the other, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm the one who read... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But please be quiet.]] The second thing I read... Well, it wasn't just any calls I called and I said, "Sir, please come here and here." These were longer conversations in which Mr. Netzel was informed about various things concerning the course of the investigation. He was told what his role was and that I'll tell you what. It would be better for him to appear, etc., etc. Well, that was just too much. And that's what the court is talking about. And that is why I say that the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, who acts in this way, loses the quality of integrity that would allow him to perform this function, especially when the law gives such opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u47	Gentlemen, we're not having a discussion. Now is the time to speak. Mr. Marshal Borowski... [[He used his time.]] ...with all due respect, Mr. Marshal, he had five minutes to make his second statement. You've spoken for over 10 minutes, and now you're having a discussion with each other. However, I would like to return to the proper discussion, unless the Minister insists very much on continuing this... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Bogdan Święczkowski: No, no.]] [[Voice from the room: It won't do any good.]] Mr. Senator Chróścikowski, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't supposed to speak, but sitting yesterday and today listening to this debate... Well, let me be honest with you, some people say words that often move us to come and say a few words. You are accusing us that this is a vote without reflection, without nothing. Well, you're accusing us of this kind of thing, and there's words here that just offend us a little bit. Well, reflection is what we have. But my mom's memory too. You say such words that this is a totalitarian state, that you will be oppressive when these new solutions are now. You use words like that. I'm the man of Solidarity, and I'm surprised that we have this kind of solidarity. [[Exactly.]] ...memory disturbance. Because as we talk in the hallway, where we meet and exchange views, it's like this: "Well, yes, it was. We were the rulers then, today you are the rulers, and so: "Well, we were in opposition, we understand. Everyone knows that, yes, there was only a switch: before there were 60 on this side, and now there are 60 on the other side, so it's basically the same thing, except there are other sides. [[No.]] [[Not at all.]] Yeah, arithmetic says so. And you guys confirm it in private conversations, you confirm it: it was before. And today you say it wasn't. I'm sorry, but I'm the fifth term in this Senate, and I have some memory. We remember when we were behind AWS, we remember sitting here behind AWS until 3:00 a.m. and we voted. Yeah, we remember that. So don't tell me there was no night job, no night job. But I would like to point out that you, ladies and gentlemen, are doing this night work. We are not the ones who want this night job, you are the ones who are prolonging the session by constantly submitting requests for breaks or checking the quorum, one proposal, one proposal. And what about that conclusion if you don't vote? You're sitting in this room... We sit on this side, we vote, and you don't vote, but you make a formal motion to vote. How are you guys acting? Well, say to the voters: is this my lie that you are not voting? That you're still prolonging our night job? But the voters are watching. [[Us, too.]] The voters are watching and calling us. Yeah, they're calling us. [[Voices from the hall: They're calling us, too.]] And they're texting, emailing, texting us, not just one Senator or another. [[Especially to Fedorowicz.]] So don't tell me you guys work like this because we're making it harder for you. We're not making things harder on you, really, you're making it hard on yourself. You guys were the ones who continued the procession on Christmas Eve. [[Jesus Christ, I think God has left the senator.]] You're the ones who extended on New Year's Eve. You're the ones who are prolonging your work so that you want to have an infinite opportunity to use the rules. [[Voice from the room: By law.]] Under the law, I'm not questioning that. You can use the rules. You're doing it consciously and you're saying you're consciously doing it to protect democracy. I wonder if we're breaking democracy. That's how we make the law. It was the voters who deliberately chose Law and Justice by listening to the Law and Justice programme. We were on the election show talking about bringing it back... [[The voice from the room: But it was...]] In the election program, we talked about getting surveillance back on track, and no one... After all, the voters deliberately voted and wanted to vote. [[19%.]] [[Yes.]] So don't tell me I'm going to vote unconsciously, or a friend of mine, since we promised the voters we'd do it. This will be a conscious vote for me and other colleagues because we said it in the election campaign. We're not fooling our constituents. [[Yes, sir.]] Don't tell us we're doing this without reflection. This is a thoughtful action. Of course, the law can be imperfect. You guys, the last couple of times... I remember how many amendments we tabled, how many questions we asked. And what did you say? No, because I don't. That was the answer. You guys are asking for answers today. And how did the ministers respond back then? The answer was because that's also the answer. That's how you told us back then, it wasn't any different. Now you're suddenly conscious and you're saying that the Minister hasn't answered your question. How many questions have we asked? [[For 17 hours...]] We also held debates for hours, but we didn't hold them at night, but during the day. And you're consciously doing this to show the voters that law and justice force you to work at night. And you're making us work at night. Like I'm gonna say, you guys are forcing us, not us. And today's sitting is an example of that. We had an example last night at 2:00 a.m. That was an example, too. So don't tell me we're forcing you to work at night because you're forcing us to work longer. I'll be honest with you, writing the law and the constitution... I'm sorry, but I remember what it was like to write the law, write the constitution. The president was Wałęsa. And what did he write in the constitution? If it were known that someone else would be president, what would be the constitution? Presidential rights would be completely different. But the president's rights were restricted, so called. A small constitution. We remember that at that time in the small constitution there was a provision that Parliament could decide at the time when the Court ruled, only it was necessary to have 2/3 of the votes. Parliament had the right, and then it was written that Parliament no longer had the right. [[Very good.]] That's what they said. Part of the society voted against. I think there were many in this room who voted against the Constitution. I myself admit that I have fought and I have been with agricultural and employee solidarity, we have been against that constitution because we didn't like a lot of things. Let's remember this. I have the courage. That's what I'm saying. We did all the action against this constitution we have today. The nation voted. It's okay. We honor her. But that doesn't mean she's so perfect that she shouldn't be changed. Perhaps we need to consider whether we should restore to Parliament the possibility that 2/3, as it changes the constitution, is 2/3, so that these 2/3s have the opportunity to express themselves, as was the case in the small constitution. Maybe we should think about it. I'm not saying it's the best solution, but maybe. There's a lot of things in the law you can think about. And today, accusing a man... After all, we do not create such a law, which is to be only for the current minister. This is a bill that's supposed to go on. [[Then you have to vote against.]] It's not just for this minister. Therefore, don't tell us all the time that this minister, this minister, this minister. We create the law and the law is meant to serve. Do not tell me all the time what you are saying here that the Law and Justice will build a state of totalitarian, oppressive, surveillance, because I have fought for this solidarity, for this freedom I have fought with many of my colleagues, and I cannot imagine voting in favour of a totalitarian, surveillance state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u49	Senator Shark, if you'd like to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm going to quote my colleague Senator Rooster here, and I'm going to say that I wasn't going to speak today, but I was provoked by some senators. Therefore, I am standing here in front of you and, as an ex-Solidarity activist, I would like to answer briefly to you, Jurku. We work at night because we simply do not have the opportunity to receive the materials and get acquainted with them. Therefore, if we want to approach the discussion decently, we need to ask the competent persons we have at our disposal. And that's why we're asking. And then, so to speak, according to our conscience, we vote. Mr. Senator, every one of us will be making a decision today according to his conscience. And what will be the decision... Let me repeat: everyone will decide according to their conscience. Just don't accuse us of working at night. We can postpone the discussion. I proposed yesterday to postpone the discussion to the next meeting, because we are not limited by any time limits of the Constitutional Tribunal, so to speak, there is no enemy at the gates. So I proposed yesterday at the committee meeting: let's postpone this bill to the next sitting, nothing will happen, we'll come next week when you want, we're ready, go ahead. So that the charge is not met. Also during committee meetings I'll take it from here. At the outset, the legislator also stated that she could not properly refer to the provisions in question because she did not have enough time. So she proposed... she said she was ready for further discussion, further procedure to prepare the material and proposals for change. It's a system bill, it's very extensive. And I would like to remind you, Senator, that we have received the material. In fact, it's not so much material as a notice or information that it's posted on the Internet. After 1:00 a.m. when people were already asleep. At least I was asleep. And I would like to remind you that in your detailed comments, the legislator wrote down I asked the Minister yesterday why you didn't pay attention. I quote: "In particular, the following amendments ignore the purely linguistic reservations, the part of the shortcomings of the law consisting in the use of incorrect terminology or the lack of internal consistency resulting from the determination of the same designations by means of different expressions and wordings. Deeper consideration would also require respect for the guarantees contained in the existing legislation relating to the regulated sphere. Their omission may lead to a plea of breach of the principle of trust in the State and the rights it provides under Article. 2nd Constitution. So we're talking about decent legislation. And do you want me to make those mistakes... Because today you are going to vote on this bill. And with all these records, with all these mistakes, it'll be in the Official Journal of the Laws. Isn't that a shame? At least we'd work on those mistakes. Next line. Professor Seweryński, whom I really respect, said yesterday, and today he repeated that at least Today, this can be said It is a law on honest records. Yes. And that's the right answer. Honestly, maybe so. But is she safe? After the Minister's statement today, I would be a little afraid. And we should just... A little reflection should apply to all of us here, following this statement. I would also like to refer to texts that often fall out of my mouth... I wish Senator Rooster was here because he was. I don't know. I don't know. I He's an activist of the "Solidarity." And I remember, ladies and gentlemen... I'll remind you, though, because there are these references. In a state of war, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecutor in one day, without seeing the possibility of arresting and accusing me of being a believer, said that he was also a believer, and then he let me go home in two days from the same article, and it was a plea of prayer without the required consent of the appropriate state administration, so it was, I received 3 months of absolute detention. I remember today the face of this prosecutor, who, with his head down, gave me the right formula, handed me the document, and then I was brought back from the workplace and dropped off, just like I was standing in a dress, into an arrest. I just felt sorry for him, humanly speaking. And today, 30 years after those events, I wouldn't want prosecutors on the basis of an article. 34 §1 and §2 or Art. 7 §3 and §4 had to have similar dilemmas: work or ordinary human decency? These may, of course, be individual situations, and I may exaggerate, but do not allow the rapid mode to destroy the possibility of adopting a good, decent bill. I'll remind you that the youth convention isn't until June, and in many of us, you've had supporters of change in the D.A.'s office. I myself am such a proponent because I see many flaws and the need to make changes in the prosecutor's office So you could easily convince us. Today, unfortunately, you leave me no other option. In connection with these threats, I will have to raise my hand by voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll start by referring to Senator Borowski's statement. I, too, am touched by the fact that for many years you've been arguing with my dad, and now you're dealing with me. But I have to tell you, Mr. Senator, when I say that I'm shyly trying to argue with you at a committee meeting or now in plenary in the Senate, my experienced father says: son, be careful when it comes to Senator Borowski. But, of course, I say this in this context, that you are certainly a very experienced polemist. As far as grandson is concerned, I must say here, of course, I wish you very much that you would once have been a polemicist with my father's grandson, which is my son, but now he's only four years old, so... [[Oh, how nice...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I think time will pass, and Senator Borowski will still be in the Senate. Anyway, here's what I'm gonna say. In fact, Senator Chróścikowski has already taken up this subject here. I would just like to say that we should not look at this bill as a bill written under one Minister of Ziobra. I think our ambitions are much greater. And I have to say that when it comes to giving such great powers to the Minister of Justice, we will adopt this solution as a political environment with all the benefits of inventory. Either it works out for us or it doesn't work out for us, and we're going to have a possible negative political responsibility to introduce this solution. So it's not like it's just such a primitive benefit for our environment. Because you often try to present it in such a way that Minister Ziobro and some of his closest associates will pursue their evil goals. I think that this solution is also very clear and clear in terms of political responsibility, full responsibility for criminal policy in our country. As I said before, and as I would like to emphasise, this is, contrary to what you are saying, a much more transparent, clear and unambiguous solution for citizens as well. If crime policy goes poorly, we'll know who's responsible. Now we don't really know, there's a double-voiced attorney general, and there's a minister next door, and there's a government next door. I think that's a vague solution. In Western European countries, of course, this solution is not often used at this point, but the position of these countries is completely different, their traditions are different, their experiences are different, and the development of all these systemic solutions was different. We are still working on developing some optimal solutions, including criminal policy, justice. Time will tell if we're right or not. And then there's the senator. Borowski warned me to see our actions in the long run, because I might be in opposition someday. So I must say that I am paying attention to, also as a lawyer, certain actions of the opposition. We can agree that, yes, we are, we are speeding, we are imposing a fast pace, but you are masters of obstruction. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u53	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal Karczewski said: we listen, we listen. But, ladies and gentlemen, this isn't about you listening. We want you to hear the voices, not the opposition, because we only transpose the voices of the authorities and tens of thousands of people who went out on the street and showed the black script... the script that's coming true. It was on the posters. They said: Court, civil service, free media, police and services, prosecutor's office. Now what's next? Jury. Ladies and gentlemen, I have co-organized, as a member and head of the Legislative Commission for 7 years, but also a member of the National Judicial Council, a conference on. ministerial supervision. This is the next problem, ladies and gentlemen. Because the question of the prosecutor's insight and the Minister of Justice in court proceedings... So we start by saying that certain secrets that concern the Police Act, including the defense attorney's secrets... The prosecutor decides, the prosecutor orders, controls the entire criminal procedure manually from the point of view of pretrial proceedings and the same prosecutor will continue to monitor the issue of how far it goes. He supervised the Minister of Justice over the judiciary. I hope we can't control the judiciary. Only, ladies and gentlemen, courts are generally fair, but they are not swift. We've done a lot... I said here openly that we should improve, strengthen the role of the Attorney General. There's no question about that. And that's what you can do, and that's what you have to do. But we must also say that we have done a great deal about speeding up proceedings, unlike what Minister Gowin did. He promised to shorten, and it turned out that there was an extension of the proceedings. Because he had no idea where it was going, where it could be accelerated, what the procedure was, etc. Because you have to spend... I spent 30 years in court halls with an application, and I know what's causing the extension of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, we've managed to introduce an assesura. Assesons handle 70 and 80 cases in district courts. We've managed to change the U.S.P. in such a way that these small things Mr Święczkowski was right to say in this regard. The judges shouldn't... Minister, thanks to us in the bill that referenda are supposed to judge cases of misdemeanor. It's in the bill already adopted. [[Mr. Senator, you've got 30 seconds left. Proceed to conclusions.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the words of Radbruch, an excellent German philosopher: the law is in force because it is a law, and it is a law, because it usually has the power of self-realization. Such a view of the law and its validity, we call it positivism, has made both lawyers and a nation vulnerable to despotic laws. And then: they wanted to supplement or replace this sentence with others. The law is what serves the nation. This means that despotism, breaking contracts, breaking laws is the law if they serve the nation. In practice, this means that what power considers to serve the common good, every invention and whim of the despot, punishment without law and judgment, is a law. This may mean that the self-interest of the ruling This is the last sentence. It is seen as a common advantage. Thus, the identification of the law with the alleged or alleged benefit of the nation has changed the state of law into a state of lawlessness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Cichoń, but earlier for a second Minister Radziwiłł on a formal matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like the minutes to state that I think Senator Rotnicka had my ballot in her port by mistake. Therefore, if there were any results, I would ask for corrections, because I did not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u57	Thank you very much. We'll take note of that in the minutes. [[Mrs. Rotnick's punishment will pay?]] I have information... [[I wish it was clear it wasn't me. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[But there was no vote.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We could celebrate this discussion with the words: parole, parole, parole. You're talking a lot and beautifully. It is impossible for you to refuse to accept oratorical performances, for erudition, for recalling the works of the classics of freedom, great philosophers, including my master, Professor Tischner, whom I had the pleasure of personally knowing. But, ladies and gentlemen, all of this lacks weight, proportion and purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, this whole discussion of yours... [[Ours, ours.]] ...and the charges you're making are, in my opinion, due to your ignorance and ignorance. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation that you are attacking, namely, Article. 12, which provides for the provision of information on not only institutions but also individuals, contains nothing new It contains a repetition of what is in other regulations, e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 156 Code of Criminal Procedure. There you go, §5 of this provision is: with the consent of the prosecutor, the files may in exceptional cases be made available to other persons. Therefore, my question is: what are you fighting for? It's a rewrite, just a little bit in other words. It may even be more precise to indicate the reasons in which this can be made available, because it is indicated that in justified cases and also if this is relevant for the security of the State or its proper functioning. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a regulation that is already in the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's not enough, there's a similar regulation in the article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 press law, which provides that the prosecutor may authorise the disclosure of personal data and the image of the persons against whom proceedings are pending because of an important public interest. So, ladies and gentlemen, the state of law is that right now what is introduced here in the article. 12 is nothing but a reflection of the existing legal situation. And that's why, if you're discussing something, it's worth first getting to know the legal state that exists, and then throwing your kind of cannons on flies. Because that's what this argument looks like in the light of what I just said. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[Mr. Marshal, just a brief correction.]] Senator Rotnicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter. I'd like to apologize to Senator Radziwill for the mistake she made. I took his ballot and I had it in my... I apologize for any misunderstanding in this regard. [[But there were no votes?]] [[No, no.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u61	About the explanation... There were no votes, just the microphone went off. [[I just wanted to apologize publicly and say it wasn't intentional.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I want to thank the marshal for having ordered a recess by 10:00 at my request today at 2:20. Of course, it could have been done earlier and it could have been held during the day, but it is good that this proposal has been taken into account and has not been opposed by the majority. That's what I wanted to emphasize first. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, in my opinion, the article was violated during the debate. Section 3 (2) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, as I said, and now I remind you. The article was also violated. Paragraph 34 (2) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure by bringing these two laws into order, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the provisions implementing the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, because the Senate's consent to shorten the deadline 3 days after the delivery of the prints was not passed. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 2 34 is very clear about this. We've used this mechanism many times. This time this article has been violated. We have only voted on these 2 points, we have not voted in favour of shortening deadlines. It was a formal matter, and now I'm going to go to the substance, which is the bill that we're proceeding with right now, the law on the prosecution's office. The day before yesterday, we were investigating the Police Act. These laws are connected in some places. They connect in some places. And I personally have big objections, doubts about their constitutional compatibility. Yeah, but in the first step that PiS did, he disabled the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Voice from the room: May or June?]] ...so it is clear that these laws cannot be dealt with at least during a period in which this unconstitutionality could be prevented. This is another law which, ladies and gentlemen, has not been reported in the pre-election package of Law and Justice. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office introduces the possibility for the Minister of Justice to receive information from each level of the proceedings and from every point of this procedure. It also provides access to sensitive information in the form of attorney-client privilege, because the previous law on police, which is basically Also, the Internet Surveillance Act ensures that, by introducing a provision that when an officer comes across a lawyer's secret, he has to hand it over to the D.A. so that he can settle... [[Mr. Marshal, 10 seconds...]] It's already... In addition, the Minister shall be entitled to give orders to prosecutors concerning arrest, indictment and all other acts. [[Mr. Marshal, it's been five minutes.]] It may provide information to others and may not be held responsible. And I ask you, what kind of minister would that be? [[Voice from the room: Morning.]] What kind of minister is he? [[The voice from the room: Good, it's good.]] A herbalist? Isn't it? [[Voices from the room: Good, good!]] [[Mr. Marshal, time's up.]] Good is Ziobro, isn't it? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[It's good.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u63	Senator Warzocha, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This speech was provoked by the voice of Senator Marek Borowski, who so unfortunately referred to an example from the statement by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, posted on Twitter a few days ago, which concerned the municipality of Koniecpol. Let me remind you that the municipality of Koniecpol has recently suffered from drought and inhabitants, over 1,500 inhabitants of this municipality, have been growing for over six months. 'Cause that's the term to be used. . practically without water, without fresh water supply. The water's even dry in the well. The reason is the long-term negligence and lack of water supply in this municipality. The Prime Minister responded to the parliamentary intervention. It is specifically about Mr Simon Giżyński, who is a Member of Law and Justice. In recent weeks, through the voivodeship, the amount of PLN 200 thousand has already been transferred to the construction of the waterworks in Koniecpol. The overall cost of building this waterworks, as stated by former Minister Leszczyn, Member of the Civic Platform, will be about 20 million PLN. But paradoxically, Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, you have used this example very unfortunately. I would like to illustrate with it a certain demagogy, which is practiced very often here, in this Chamber, by the opposition senators. This demagogue is about... This is mainly related to the behaviour of Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, who, when she was running for office in the last parliamentary elections, wrote her billboard in the vicinity of the municipality of Koniecpol: "I am from here, therefore I fought for waterworks for the municipality of Koniecpol. I don't know who she was fighting, whether she was fighting with Minister Szczurki, the finance minister, who, as she said, was once the ninth deputy in the finance department, or she was fighting the government with Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz at the head, in any case she did not win these measures. The funds were promised, brought and secured in the special reserve by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in less than 100 days of office of her government. She actually came to Koniecpola on Monday to meet with the residents, to meet with the commune authorities and to inform them. [[Get to the point! Get to the point!]] Get to the point, Senator, of course. [[Mr. Marshal, pay attention.]] [[Let's not fight.]] [[Don't disturb the speaker.]] Mrs Leszczyn tabled an amendment tonight or earlier, during the procedure of the budget law: the amount of PLN 200 000 was to be allocated from the central budget... [[But we're talking about the D.A.'s office. Come on, Mr. Marshal!]] ...from the current expenses of the Central Anti-corruption Office for the special reserve, i.e. the construction of a waterworks in the municipality of Koniecpol. Let me remind you: the cost of building a waterworks That's 20 million zlotys. Minister, the Member wanted to secure PLN 20,000. [[But that's not the point! That's not the point!]] Of course, this amendment is gone. And all this action was only done by the Member in order to be able to write this sentence on Twitter today: Beata Szydło failed to keep her promise to the inhabitants of the municipality of Koniecpol. There's been an amendment to the special reserve for the water main. The PiS was against it. Mr. Marshal, Prime Minister Szydło wrote, "Position, let me work, let me rule!" and I sign with both hands under this statement from the Prime Minister, and I add: and stop practicing demagogy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Although I don't think it was a speech about the bill we're discussing. [[Beata Szydło was lost...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me remind you that at the end we still have an institution of statements. Mr. Marshal Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u66	Yeah, yeah. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for pointing out that this was actually a statement, and not about anything at all. [[Ten minutes.]] And since Senator Warzocha has established... Of course, he referred to my words to make a statement. But he said... [[Voice from the room: But it's not at this point.]] [[Yeah, well, not at that point...]] He said something about demagogy here. I only held on to the fact that the Prime Minister, being at the end of the day and then posting her Twitter entry, suggested that the opposition would not allow us to build a waterworks in the end of the year. And that was just absurd. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster. You're welcome. [[Oh!]] [[Well, oh...]] [[But, Stas, not too long, because you know...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! A friend of the Senator from the ditch club, the honorary president of Gorzow, asked someone to have the civil courage to stand up and say it. So, ladies and gentlemen, I have the civil courage to stand up and defend Minister Ziobra. [[Oh!]] Because Minister Ziobro is from Krynica... [[Voices from the room: Oh, please.]] ...and I come from the Guardian, this is the district of the Sądecki Beskid. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all speaking here, especially my colleagues, my friends... 'Cause I'm not gonna hate anybody. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking politics, politics, and I'll start with the question. Didn't Minister Ziobro accept the report given to Prime Minister Tusk by Mr Seremet? Mr. Tusk didn't take the Attorney General's report, Mr. Seremet. Didn't Mr. Ziobro take Mr. Seremet's report when Mrs. Kopacz didn't take it? [[Sure...]] Wasn't it? Politics? Because there was a speech... Yes, my dear friend, Senator Zientarski, what we both always say is true: man is to be a thing and not an subject. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Ziobro, was it Mr. Ziobro who was pulling the plane at Amber Gold Airport in Gdansk? [[No.]] Did Mr. Ziobro come up with the carbon issue where you were? [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: No, Wałęsa.]] Excuse me, is that Mr. Ziobro? Then, did Mr. Ziobro come up with a gambling issue? [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Did Mr. Ziobro meet at the cemetery? [[No.]] [[What do you mean, no?]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, let me finish. Did Mr. Ziobro invent fuel scandals, the Dear State, in which some ministers, vice ministers in recent governments were involved and resigned to pay almost 900 million PLN to tax offices. Is it Mr. Ziobro and here I am addressing a friend of Senator Borowski's, and you know what my approach to left-wing governments was at 6:00 a.m. in the holy memory of the minister, holy Lord, over her soul, in the bathroom, and Mr. Ziobro took out his weapon? No, not Mr. Ziobro. Next, ladies and gentlemen, case. Everything focused on one person who really wanted to bring about a certain order. I am not a lawyer, my dear fellow Members, but I would like the law to be respected in this country. And let us not make a scapegoat out of this mountaineer, a tough mountaineer, for it is not said that he will be a minister of justice for life. Do you know how much health he'll be able to do? I really... [[He's a mountaineer!]] [[Let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, ……]] Dear Lords, I say this: many young people do not enjoy health. I could say... Because Mrs. Zdrojewska was talking about fans. Did Mr. Ziobro invent a corruption arrangement in the Polish Football Association? Is it wrong that Mr. Ziobro explained it to the end? [[They fought the deal and what? Nothing.]] Very good of him to do it! And, Mr and Mrs Dear, for me clearly, the law must be such that, in the courts, the law is the law to stop... [[Court of law...]] [[...and justice must be on our side.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, Zientarski's friend, as you performed, I listened with great attention. [[You weren't in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sorry, I was in the O.R. Buddy Fedorovich, I'm not an actor and I'm not a populist. The texts send thousands of people to me... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[All the Guardians!]] ...and I'm not going out and I'm not talking about it. 'Cause you guys are bragging, and if I were mean, Dear Jurk, I'd say yes... [[All the Guardians, all the Guardians.]] ...look at the election results, who had the best percentage in the country, look, buddy. And at the end of the day, I'm going to say very calmly. For, Dear Lord, my most beautiful commandment, my faith, is: love thy neighbor. And I love you, my friend Zientarski. [[Oh!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[No, Staszek...]] But, Mr and Mrs Dear, let me say this: I also love Senator Borowski, because Dear... [[Fun in the room]] ...he's the one on TV who said he really respects Rooster for his views. Thank you for that. But I'm going back to the point because I still have five minutes. [[No, Staszek! Staszek!]] [[Exactly 4.5 minutes, Senator.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I hear what the citizens are saying. We have to end this octopus in law firms. The court must be equal for the poor and the rich. [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really glad that this bill has come into effect. And let me tell you this: Minister Ziobro enjoys great authority over the Court of Justice. Zbyszek, forward, according to the law! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Staszek, why didn't you tell me you were my student?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But I'm not your actor. I like this Jurek.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Oh!]] Greetings to the left and right side of the room. [[Parisian salon.]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that this debate on the prosecutor's office shows best that Poles are fed up with the philosophy of the state, which supposedly can't, can't effectively accuse or convict anybody. For example, 17 years of trials involving criminals from incidents on the Coast in December 1970 show best that, as the deputy marshal of this House Zbigniew Romaszewski said, the least successful reform of the justice system was of all reforms after 1989. And I think the left, and the right side. Or the right, and the left, as anyone prefers the room to do so. Citizens know that very well. Just go to one of the most popular portals and read what they think about government proposals. Well, 62% I'm talking about the Onet portal, and it's in favour of combining the position of the Attorney General with the Minister of Justice, 38%. has a separate opinion. This best shows that citizens intuitively sense what is obvious, that if the government is to be responsible for criminal policy, for the functioning of the prosecutor's office and the state in any rational way is to be responsible for this, appropriate instruments are needed, so that it is not fiction, so that it is known who is responsible for what, who has the powers and according to which procedures the prosecutor's office operates. The bill adopted by the Sejm aims to repair the prosecution's office, which has been ineffective in recent years. This is a return to the model in which the Minister of Justice is the Attorney General, a departure from the fiction created by the Civic Platform. I will remind you that the prosecutor's office was subordinate to the Minister of Justice for the first 20 years of the Third Polish Republic. There were, of course, different ministers of justice, different prosecutors general, but no one at that time questioned the validity of this solution, but there were various coalitions: left and right, and centre-right, and centre-left. The separation of the function of minister and prosecutor only gave the Civic Platform an argument not to deal with the security of Poles and always to say that nothing can be done. In fact, the prosecution was not independent, because the prime minister could e.g. not accept the annual report of the Attorney General and apply for an appeal from the Prosecutor. Interestingly, Donald Tusk used these arguments very often For example, in 2013 he did not accept the report of the Attorney General for 2012. So we were dealing with some kind of fiction, which was only an alibi for the government, so as not to address difficult topics concerning the security of Poles every day. The proposed solutions in this law are beneficial, because the government will take responsibility for security, will be accounted for by the prosecution. The Sejm will regain control of the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, even if, through an institution, a motion for mistrust, which the opposition will be able to submit in any situation where it considers it appropriate, it will be able to submit interpellations and questions. Today, the Polish Parliament, i.e. indirectly Poles, is not able to control the prosecution. By failing to see in the bill we as senators But MEPs can't do this anymore. We can address the Attorney General, under the current regulations, with questions about the state of the art of specific investigations, but a Member cannot do so in the form of interpellation. The system of combining the functions of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General is a system where responsibility will finally be clear. The Minister of Justice as Attorney General is a model of the prosecutor's office, which works, among others. in Germany, France, Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic and the Netherlands. As for the details of this project, we were already talking about it, so I'm not going to talk about it. I would just like to point out that the position of Deputy Prosecutor General for Organised Crime and Corruption and Deputy Prosecutor General for Military Affairs will be created. The project abolishes the current cadency of management functions in the prosecutor's office. The current National Public Prosecutor's Council is intended to replace the National Public Prosecutor's Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, composed exclusively of prosecutors. Prosecutorial disciplinary proceedings are to be made public. Regional prosecutors created in place of the prosecutor's office will become specialised prosecutors centers to combat the most serious crime. High Izbo, I am surprised that the debate on this law is taking so long, because I think that if we have the good of the state, the good of the justice system and, above all, the safety and well-being of citizens, we should support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u71	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u72	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Minister! I am the third month in the Senate, I am trying to teach from all of you and I must say that, contrary to some opinions, we have the ability to learn, even though we have professorships. It doesn't stop the ability to absorb knowledge. I would like to address this debate in a very general way, in detail, more reflectively because of the seriousness of this House. As you remember from history, how we would reach out to 1998 and the talks that were then held about what Poland would be like... The doctrine of the democratic rule of law, which has been shaped in the West for many years, seemed simple to introduce in Poland. It seemed that it was enough to adopt changes in the law and we would have democracy. Legal dogmatism, interpretation of laws, paragraphs that can be separated from everyday life and from the functioning of reality have created socially privileged groups with specific immunity, groups so strong that they could effectively influence political decision-makers. This led to the creation of a group with a weaker position vis-à-vis the law, a marginalised group. And it's not the rule of law, it's not democracy. Of course, we have a lot of groups, we have a lot of pressure groups, we have political, social organizations, we have trade unions, we have lobbyists, we have financial organizations. Democracy and the rule of law is when all these groups have similar influence and are balanced in compliance with the law and its actions in society. We were chosen by the part of the nation that felt excluded for a long time from equal representation. Therefore, we believe that the changes in the Constitutional Court, what we have applied for on civil service or we are currently taking on the prosecutor's office, are to restore this balance and pluralism in Poland, are to restore democracy. The State cannot remove responsibility for the operation of the legal system or its impact on society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine for the second time, so he's got five minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I wish I could, because I haven't finished...]] [[Stasio, it's over, in the cockroaches...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There is no way to fail to refer to a few recent speeches that duplicate the same pattern: they indicate that there was much in the prosecution to repair, that it did not always function properly, and it is used as an excuse to corrupt it and politicize it to the end. It is believed that cases of past influence on it are authorised to operate manually. That there are cases of sharing some material that allow it to be done on a large scale, when you want to, without respect for human rights. Because the bill under discussion here, ladies and gentlemen, is not a law that concerns prosecutors. It's not a law that applies to some kind of structure. This is a law that concerns Poles and their absolutely fundamental rights, the right to a good court, the right to a good justice system, to impartiality and to the certainty that no one will abuse the law for political purposes. You say we're still talking the same thing and that it's populism and demagogy. There are over 100 pages of demagogy here. And before me, I have a list of populists to read: the first president of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the General Data Inspector, members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council, the National Judicial Council, the Centre for Research, Studies and Legislative Affairs It's just part of the demagog and populist list we've been quoting. Finally, I would like to recall a passage from one of these opinions, which relates mainly to the article. 12, which I propose to delete: he, and thus the entire law, gives the possibility of a criminal violation of the good name of any given man. [[Stas, do you hear me?]] We'd like to ask you in that I'm going to say, architect, I'm going to refer here to my colleague's great speech. Almost Orwellian: who's next? In the senators' and the minister's speeches, there were suggestions that it could be expected that further justice, this time courts and judges... We'll see about that soon enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u75	Thank you very much, Senator. More senators still add up to the list of speakers. Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Student from Krakow! Here's what I'm gonna say, Mr and Mrs. Dear. 'Cause I'd like to fit in in ten minutes. It is Mr. Ziobro who is guilty of detecting and detecting the companies of poles that led out of his beloved homeland 100 billion PLN per year. And we're gonna be saying that the 500+ family program... and we're gonna be looking for money. We should be glad that these revenues will actually be included in the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, if we're attacking anyone... We are the House of Reflection. I am delighted that even in commercial media it is said that this is the Chamber of Reflection, there are no attacks. To be honest, all proceedings against Minister Ziobra have been dismissed. [[That's not true.]] They've been decommissioned. Gentlemen, you wanted to put him before the State Court. You lost the vote. [[We didn't mean to.]] Gentlemen, you have lost the vote in the Polish Parliament. And many members of the Civic Platform felt that the proposal was unfounded. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we scared? What? Honest citizens can't be afraid of anything. Whether you'll be Minister Ziobro or someone else will be Minister... What, are we gonna protect those we talked about in the Police Act, terrorists who kidnap children, extort money, want ransoms for children? Do we want to support mobsters selling guns, drugs? Are we afraid that, uh, Dear Lords, we can say here It's not classified and it shouldn't be classified. That including Amber Gold is... I don't know who I am, but... there was one of the prosecutors or judges who actually followed political orders. You want me to remind you of a similar situation in Katowice, the judge? Here everything focused on Minister Ziobra, and we want the scandalists in Poland to be really persecuted. Yes, Dear Lords, persecuted and judged to the end. Nobody says prosecutors... Dear Lords, to me justice, the judicial authority should be at the highest level. Authors shouldn't be hitting on, but with us I'm gonna say it as part of that love. There's a frontal attack on the elected President. Let me get this straight. Mr. Borowski, even when Mr. Kwasniewski was president, when they asked me about him abroad, I said this: I do not speak about the President, but I respect the office of President. I never voted for Mr Kwasniewski, I never voted for him, but I respect the office of President. [[And Komorowski...]] Dear Members, I did not vote and I would not vote. I wouldn't play the Shogun in Japan, I wouldn't jump, nobody would tell me to jump. Ladies and gentlemen, an example of Mr Duda's intelligence... Because you have to be able to behave everywhere. Next case. Television Attack, Court, attack, Smolensk... all attack. What? Professor Wach said very beautifully. Professor Wach said very beautifully: you won, you want to clean up and I think That's what he said. You have a good intention. [[Last minute.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's the end of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Włosowicz. [[Then close the list, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Then file a motion.]] [[Request to close the list.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In yesterday's and today's debate, there were many arguments in this one debate lasting 2 days, many raised words about how our country was organized concerning the highest offices. I understand it's in the interest of the law we're about to change, which we're about to give. This right is supposed to serve all of us in solving problems, whether it's human, whether it's institutional, corporate, even the smallest ones. I would like to give you two examples of events in recent days. These are not examples that have been specifically selected from recent months or years. Which took place in Świętokrzyskie voivodship, and tell them what their finale is, at least for today. I'm gonna talk about two companies. One is an MZD company, which is a city road management company. The MZD, using EU funds, carried out an investment in the city centre in the form of a viaduct construction. This viaduct was built along with the electrical part, because this was the scope of the works. After it was built, someone pointed out that instead of 50 lamps standing on this overpass... Turns out there's these 90 tubes in the invoice. The case was therefore referred to the prosecutor's office. Mr. D.A. has conducted a proper trial, a process in the sense of action... I'm not a specialist in this field... [[Conduct.]] Thank you. And he said that there are indeed shortcomings here. The company that did this was pinned down. The company agreed and wanted to make a correction. It is worth PLN 300,000. What's the endgame of this prosecution case? The prosecutor said that there is indeed a violation of the law for the amount of over PLN 300,000. And what's written in the conclusion just above the name of the prosecutor? Low social harm. The investigation was therefore terminated. If one of you thinks that our common money, also obtained from the European Union, can be spent in this way, and the prosecutor who is responsible for it, says that 300,000 PLN is a small social harm... I don't share that view, but maybe part of the room has, maybe the last few years have developed such a practice that everything is fine. A second example in the commercial field. We have, we have or we will have... Let me get this straight. A company called Kielce Mineral Resources Mine was founded 141 years ago. To our surprise, despite my writings, the company was privatized to the Minister from 2010-2011, and was privatized to DSS, which was already a stock company. They said he was in a lot of trouble, but the secret was that this company was gonna buy this company. At first it was said that it would be about 30 million. Eventually, among others. After my interventions, this company was sold for 108 million. And what was her further fate in the next few years, how many months? Because the company produced the stone needed, among others. To build roads, it seemed that in recent years she had bright prospects. Unfortunately, a few months later, she was in very big financial trouble. The finale of these problems was bankruptcy. Several requests were made to the prosecution on the fact that the privatisation process was badly conducted and caused such a tragic fate of the company. Unfortunately, the Kielce Attorney's Office, who was involved in this, dropped all these cases without seeing any grounds for intervention. The company went bankrupt. More information literally from the last hours, because from yesterday, so good information that the Industrial Development Agency decided to buy this company from the syndicate. I believe that with the new owner from Monday the company will operate under new conditions, and I hope that almost 300 jobs in Świętokrzyskie will be saved. These two examples, I think, show some phenomena. First of all, about the expertise and integrity of the prosecutors who did this, at least I have big doubts. How do you say 300,000... How can it be said that in the case of a company that generated several million profits every year in previous years and was thus privatized, destroyed, no evil has been committed? This is the first case. Second thing. Even if such errors are pointed out and there is talk of irregularities in prosecutorial proceedings, there is some reason, some order, if the prosecutor is independent and has no influence on him. I think these two examples from the last few days, from the last weeks from the Świętokrzyskie voivodship... I don't think we're any special place on the map. Of course, our speciality is that we are the poorest region in Poland, but such business and commercial activities, I think, in other places in the country is much more, and I also have the right to assume that such irregularities were a lot. I hope this change is what we expect. It will stop this kind of action, that we will not have a situation in which, on the one hand, against a Polish senior, who actually in an illegal way becomes the owner of a bar for PLN 2.5, are drawn consequences, and on the other hand, someone who cheats in the business at PLN 300 thousand gets confirmation from the prosecutor that nothing happened, that the harmfulness of this act is very small. I hope that cases like this are going to get less and less, because it's hard to imagine they're not going to be at all. In any case, all these matters which we have witnessed over the past years and which have remained without any reaction from the authorities called to do so will be clarified, and those who believe that such a structure of the state is in their favor will not participate in public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. I suggest we close the list of speakers. Is anyone objecting? No. Has anyone else volunteered besides Senator Wind? No. Then I'm closing the list of speakers. Senator Wind is the last. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's late, so it's short. We are looking at two important laws, but it should be noted that the debate takes place on several levels, alongside factual arguments, there are slogans and demagogy. Mr. Senator Augustine just screamed a lot of charges here. I say that he shouted because I was sitting close, and for me it was particularly cumbersome, but he did not address the factual arguments of his previous speakers, and it was a pity. Maybe there's just no counterarguments. Let me be brief, the prosecutor as a minister should be an efficient organizer of law enforcement. He will answer to Parliament, which is extremely important. There are courts at the end. Mr. Senator, Professor Seweryński presented a factual statement justifying the adoption of these laws. I didn't hear any convincing counter-arguments. I'll vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A very important statement.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators Augustine, Florek and Borusewicz. The joint discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voices from the Chamber: At the committee meeting...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry, but I will no longer be able to be with you at the committee meeting, there will be another Deputy Minister of Justice. Therefore, allow me to thank you briefly for the comments I have received as a representative of the Ministry of Justice for the Government. All of them, of course, deepened our knowledge, pointed out various kinds of concerns, which the opposition very often shared here. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and the Government, these laws guarantee fundamental rights and civil liberties, will improve and make the prosecution's activities more flexible, so that it is more effective in prosecuting crimes in Poland and becomes an important element of the national security system. Thank you for your comments and for this sitting, and I hope that the Senate of the Republic of Poland will adopt and enter into force both of these laws, in accordance with the laws, i.e. on 4 March. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. As proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on these laws will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the control of certain investments. The text of the Act is contained in print No 85 and the report of the Commission In print No 85 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Krystian Probierza, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I've noticed in the last few speeches that greetings are being given to the senators from this place. Senator Jackowski greeted the left, right, or vice versa. I will certainly not be as original as Senator Grodzki, but I will also allow myself to say hello to the traditional hall: Dziebry. [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] My duty, which was entrusted to me by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, is to present the results of our deliberations at 10 a.m. today. Well, I have the honour to report on the Law on amending the Law on the Control of Certain Investments. At our meeting, the basic tasks of this law were discussed by Minister Wild at our meeting. The position of the Senate Analysis Office was also presented, in which, in addition to the fact that very short time had been paid to read the Act, attention was also paid to the relatively short period of vacathio legis. Senator Augustyn asked for a closer look at the issue of control of certain investments and asked what investments it was about. And here the Minister explained that the whole name of the bill was a little confusing. Namely, this law interferes with the market, has a defensive function, affects the activities of our companies of the State Treasury In this regard, particular attention was paid to the activities of the companies associated with our KGHM combination. It also affects companies potentially interested in the possible takeover or hostile takeover of our companies. The amendments themselves, which have been proposed for this bill, are basically placed on... are practically on less than two pages of the manuscript. Senator Augustine also asked about the importance of rhenium in our economy. Because to operators that are subject to control, it is also added... whether the formula for the transmission of gaseous fuels has been changed, followed by the production of rhenium or the extraction and processing of metal ores used in the manufacture of explosives, weapons and ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technologies. I took the liberty of using my knowledge and explaining to you the meaning of this element, the rhenium, in our economy. Well, the element of the rhenium, which, fortunately, occurs in our copper deposits on the presudetian monoklin, together with the copper minerals... We've got a little bit of that rhenium, I'll say a little bit. So that we are probably in the four or five largest producers in the world. As was apparent from this discussion at the committee's meeting, the purpose of the law is to protect our country's interests from possible hostile takeover of this mentioned company and the others concerned. By the way, the rhenium is an element... it is a precious metal with a density similar to platinum density, and it has similar external characteristics. It is used in the most advanced technologies, especially in the production of jet engines, it is used there as alloy additives, which clearly improve the properties of metal. It is also used in thermocouples, as well as in the most advanced stealth technologies, those that are used to cover objects so that they are not visible to the radars of the opposite side. Well, ladies and gentlemen, during the discussion, the Minister will certainly say a little more about this, and I would add that this law will be covered by foreign capital companies if they carry out mining activities related to the extraction of these rare elements. One more remark. We produce from a few hundred to a few thousand kilos a year. The current market price of the raw material falls It's probably about $5,000 per kilogram, but recently these prices have reached up to $10,000 or a dozen thousand per kilogram of this element. In general, it can be said that it is produced by a company associated with our Mining and Steel Copper Combine. The discussions and questions of the senators also showed that a regulation of the Council of Ministers should be either an integral part of this law. There were such demands of the senators that as soon as this regulation appeared, it would be presented to the senators in some way. In the whole of this procedure, the role of controlling or safeguarding our interests of the state is played by a consultative committee which, in principle, remains under the control of the Ministry of the Treasury. Other bodies also delegate their delegates to this legislative committee. This law states that the Minister responsible for the management of fossil deposits, the Minister responsible for energy, the Minister responsible for maritime affairs, will also have an impact on the composition of the consultative committee. This is due to changes in the functioning of our ministries. So many general remarks. After the meeting, the Commission recommends that the Senate adopt a law amending the Law on the control of certain investments without amendments. As I recall, seven votes were in favour and three senators abstained. And that's the recommendation I'm giving you to the marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u86	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that four senators abstained because then one senator arrived. Thank you. [[Excuse me. I didn't say that for sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Senator, is the position of the consultative committee optional for the competent minister, or is it a binding position? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u89	The Minister will speak very carefully about this. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's optional.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u90	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I can't see. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Nicholas Wild: No, thank you.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please, does anyone want to speak in the discussion? I would like to inform you that no one has signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm calling a break until 2.55 p.m., 45 minutes. Senator Secretary has a message to read.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u91	Ladies and gentlemen! The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted to the Law of the Prosecutor's Office will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u92	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 10 to 14 minutes 59]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u93	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 68. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee recommends that the High House adopt a draft resolution in print No 68. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u95	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I read the results: 83 senators voted, 25 for, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the second item of the agenda... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to quiet down... Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, it's very difficult to work, and if I work better, you and I will go home faster. We would like to return to the second item of the agenda: the Act on one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 70 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy gathered and, without much discussion, proposes the adoption of a law without amendment. At the same time, I would like to point out that amendments were tabled during the Senate debate. Several amendments aimed to spread this supplement over all months of the year, and then put it into the support system and type it in. It's for the years to come. I think, because of, among other things. for high costs, not agreed with the Ministry of Finance, not included in the budget, the senators were against it. Other amendments aimed to exclude from counting the income of nursing allowances and orphans' benefits, and also to change the amount for those who have the lowest benefits, i.e. up to PLN 900, and to pay 350 PLN to these people, rather than as in the project 400 PLN, and to transfer those 50 PLN for those whose benefits are from PLN 1 000 500 to 2 000 PLN. In conclusion, I will say that the committee proposes to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u98	Thank you. I'd like to have a party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u99	Do the senators of the applicant, Senator Tomasz Grodzki and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? [[Thank you.]] [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 62 for, 23 against. [[Voting No 10]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on a one-off allowance for certain pensioners, pensioners, persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits in 2016. We are returning to the examination of the third agenda: the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 69 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the committees. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 in favour, one against and one against. [[Voting No 11]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Criminal Code. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution Annus Domini MMXVI - anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting, which is in print No 60 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Gawl, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u100	Mr. Marshal, your Senate, the additional report of the Legislative Committee that was held yesterday at 21.10. In addition to the members of the committee, Senator Jan Żaryn took part in it and said these words. The Commission supported amendments 1, 3 and 6 from the table of proposals and proposes that they be adopted by the Senate together with a single draft resolution in print No 60 S. Gives the amendments that have been accepted. Amendment 1. The title of the draft resolution is replaced by the following: Annus Domini MMXVI - Year of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Amendment 3. In the first subparagraph, the words "pays part' shall be replaced by "pays tribute'. Amendment 6. The following paragraph shall be inserted after the fifth paragraph: The Senate of the Republic of Poland shall establish the year 2016 - the Year of the Jubilee of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading of the project, you submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Jan Żaryn, Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Kazimierz Wiatr. Are the senators... No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted on, in the order of the rules of the projects, in print No 60 X, and then in the adoption of the draft, in print No 60 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 6 will be voted together. We proceed with the vote on the amendments made by Senator Jan Zarin. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 24 against, 57 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 3, Senator Kazimierz Wind. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 26 against. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 4, Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 7 were in favour, 76 were against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was rejected. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 5, Senator Kazimierz Wind. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 28 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 has already been voted on. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the draft in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 80 were in favour, 6 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted the resolution of Annus Domini MMXVI as the Year of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 74 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Michael Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions recommend that the High Senate adopt both laws, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? The conclusions were made during the discussion by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Piotr Florek. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the very vague, dangerous application of the provisions contained in Article. 12, which I quote in favour of independent expertise, will give the possibility of a criminal violation of the good name of any given person, please vote in favour of deleting this article.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u105	Thank you very much. In addition, the rapporteur for the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions was Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Mr. Senator? Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this draft is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The votes on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous two proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 24 against, 63 against. [[Voting No 18]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection, we are voting on the proposal of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 62 were in favour, 24 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution on a case in which they apply for a law without amendments, while a minority of committees have submitted a proposal to reject the law. Senator's print No 75 A. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 63 against. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted in favour, 63 against 24 and no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law of the State Attorney's Office. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the control of certain investments. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments. This is senate print No 85 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted in favour, 64, 2 against, 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the control of certain investments. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the ninth Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 17, 18, 19 February 2016. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal!]] Now, Janek, are you telling me something? Sorry. What would you like? [[I'd like to make a statement.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Zbigniew Silence.]] Senator Zbigniew Silence, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Zbigniew Silence to speak. Mr. Senator! [[Senator!]] Senator, this is the third time I'm asking you, because I don't... [[Yes.]] [[Statements?]] Declarations. There's a set order, Mr. Marshal. The third master is, Marshal. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u106	I'm short. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am making a statement in connection with the incident described in the media concerning the arrest and beating by the police of Mr. Adam Słomki, who, acting against the existence of monuments of gratitude of the Soviet army, wanted to paint the symbol of Poland Fighting in Skaryszewski Park together with a group of people. Anchor. He was arrested by the police, thrown on the floor, handcuffed, and then held until 4:00 a.m. I find this kind of action in a democratic state of law unacceptable and outrageous. Therefore, I have a request to the Home Minister to investigate this case, possibly to initiate disciplinary proceedings at least, if not criminal, against the officers, if they have acted so, and to inform whether the facts have been recorded at the place where the incident occurred. 'Cause it's supposed to be monitored. And in the place where Mr. Adam Słomka was arrested. I remind you that this is an opposition activist known from the communist system. He was the youngest intern at war because he was only 17 years old. His actions later found a continuation. After all, he is a publicly known man, he has been a member of the European Parliament many times. I believe that this kind of police action against a person who's known, and therefore there's no fear that she's gonna be hiding... In addition, it has taken action which, under the legal order, can probably be regarded as not qualifying as a crime, but merely as a manifestation of certain political views to which man has the right to manifest himself even in accordance with the article. 10th European Convention on Human Rights. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you're gonna make a statement from Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome. And then you're Senator Borowski. [[What about me?]] You're in, too, Senator. Please hold.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my statement to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Dear Minister, In view of the information obtained regarding the continuation of the plan to liquidate on-call posts at the police stations in Kudowa-Zdrój, Land-Zdrój and Polenica-Zdroj, I would like to express my strong protest. As a senator representing the district of Kłodzki for several years I have observed the continuing process of marginalization of our region, taking place in many spheres of our social life. This process affects, to my particular concern, also the security sphere. The plans, coming from the previous term of office, which are to be implemented at the mentioned police stations already on 1 February 2016, perfectly fit into actions which will ultimately lead to a decrease in the effectiveness of the police operation in our territory. First, despite many social protests, the Sudetki Border Guard Branch was eliminated by both residents and local authorities. Now you're trying to keep up the bad police decisions at district command level. Minister, the police service should be effective. I am convinced that the decision to terminate highly qualified and specialised on-call posts will result in a decline in the security of the local community. I cannot remain indifferent to the protests of a crowd of self-government people, citizens, and policemen themselves. In the last few weeks, since I was elected as Senator of the Republic of Poland, I have met with numerous requests to intervene in the case presented here. I believe that the termination of duty posts and the attempt to replace duty officers who are not prepared for this role will result in a decrease in the effectiveness of field activities and may initiate mass retirement of qualified and experienced officers, which will result in a lack of confidence in the organisation of public institutions that protect citizens' safety. The liquidation of these posts will also significantly reduce the rank of police stations. There is no convincing argument for me by the district police chief in Kłodzek, Inspector Andrzej Sidorowicz-Radzikowski, who justifies his decision to change the organisation of the structure at each police station, which is intended to improve the functioning of these units. It met with a strong protest of local government officials, including city councillors, who perfectly sense social needs. It is dramatic for me to follow only statistics in decisions. What is disturbing is the decline in the number of more serious crimes in Kudowa-Zdrój, in Lądek-Zdrój, or in Polanica-Zdrój, which is the effect of police staff work, is the basis for adverse changes for individuals. As a senator, I highly appreciate all police activities leading to the improvement of the safety of our residents. However, I am afraid that the planned actions I hear about, despite probably sincere intentions, will be aimed at citizens as well as at the good name of the police. I cannot approve of the process of further marginalisation of the role of smaller towns at the expense of larger cities. Every citizen of our country has the right to feel safe regardless of whether he is a resident of a small village or a larger urban agglomeration. The selection for the changes of three spa towns is a concrete confirmation of the fact that the process of liquidation of police stations initiated in our territory in the last dozen years is not a process completed. I find it unacceptable to start organisational changes with the liquidation of posts that are so important for the efficiency of the operation of the Police. I am afraid that the actions taken will lead to further movements which may lead to a reduction in the rank of police stations in the said localities. I am astonished by the fact that incomprehensible attempts to interfere with the structure of police stations are conducted in spas visited by more and more tourist groups per year. Given the geopolitical situation, it can be assumed that the growth of national tourism, especially with a tourist and health profile, will be progressing at an increased rate. This trend has been observed in recent years. Polish police need to increase the number of posts of police officers dealing with prevention on our streets, but this cannot be done at the expense of qualified staff. I don't understand the idea that maybe there were attempts to make changes. If it is a desire to improve action, it has not found approval in the eyes of people who should have a significant voice on the operation of the police, i.e. Locals, citizens and residents, as well as many police officers. And if the changes were to be economical, it would be wicked, in my opinion. Minister, in view of the arguments put forward, I would like to ask you not to bring into force the changes in the structure of the police in Kłodzkie. I hope that the process that has been launched since the previous coalition will be a reversible process under the rule of law and justice. With another statement, I would like to address the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, I would like to request information on national road No 8 in section Wroclaw Kudowa-Zdrój. I would like to know whether a general reconstruction of this section is planned in the coming years and whether the funds have possibly been secured for this purpose. My question is dictated by the concern of the inhabitants of the Lower Silesia region, who in many protests in previous years demonstrated the need for a thorough reconstruction of Route 8. I would like to point out that the episode of Wroclaw Kudowa-Zdrój is one of the most dangerous in the country. Due to the terrible conditions of infrastructure each year, the sloppy statistics of injured persons and, unfortunately, the victims of fatal traffic accidents recorded on this route are rising. Unfortunately, in the last 8 years of the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, not much has been done in terms of its reconstruction. I hope that the reconstruction of the national road No 8 in the section of Wroclaw Kudowa-Zdrój will enter the implementation phase in the near future, and a successful investment will contribute to the development of our region and improve the level of safety of drivers and pedestrians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me remind you that statements can't last more than five minutes. Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement from Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The statement on behalf of myself and Senator Kazimierz Kleina is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The revision of the 2015 budget law has raised a lively discussion and considerable controversy about its validity and purpose. This issue, we believe, will now be settled, as basic data on budget implementation are already available. However, we do not have enough data, so we are asking for information on the state budget situation in months. .. for each of them separately. October, November and December 2015 We ask that this information include: firstly, the accumulated revenue generated by the budget, including tax . broken down by all types of taxes Second, the expenditure of the state budget and the detailed arrangements for the estimated implementation of the budget, including grants to the CRUs and CRUs and debt management; thirdly, the deficit of the State budget. This statement was signed by Senators Marek Borowski and Kazimierz Klein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Stanislaw Gogach to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Minister! The Church of Pobrygidków, called Powiszytkowski, was built in 1412 and 1426 to commemorate Władysław Jagiełła's victory over the Teutonic Knights in the Battle of Grunwald. The church is built in Gothic style. Despite many tragic events, the church has still survived in the almost unchanged Gothic brill. The church has been involved in patriotic activities for many decades Here there are solemn Masses for the homeland, here is a plaque dedicated to General Kazimierz Tumidaski, unveiled in 1977 under semi-sighted conditions, here is a plaque in honor of 7. The Ulanów Lubelski regiment deserved in both the Polish-Bolshevik War and the defence war or the plaque in tribute to the deceased in Volyn for his homeland in 1939 and 1945. Many different patriotic initiatives are being implemented here. In view of the above, I ask the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to examine carefully the requests made by the Rector Church on the occasion of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary of the Victory in Lublin to the programme of the Minister of Culture I'm also asking for information about the above. Thank you very much. Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. And please make a statement by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u114	My statement is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. In response to questions and comments addressed to me as a signatory of the statement in defence of Wiesław Chrzanowski's memory in connection with the publication by the well-deserved office of Editions of Witold Bagienski, Sławomir Cenckiewicz and Piotr Woyciechowski, Confidents to which Minister Antoni Macierewicz wrote his introduction, I explain the following. First of all, I signed a statement accepting his general message to defend the good name of a man who can no longer defend himself. Poster and, in my opinion, an unsubstantiated cover of the book has confirmed me in the rightness of this decision. However, after getting a closer look at the content of the book, I cannot agree with all the wording of the statement, because in a way that is too short and thus simplified, the message of the book and the intention of its authors has been assessed. I decided to publish this explanation because of the high evaluation of the editorial achievements of the Meeting. I am in favour of publicising the results of reliable workshop research on cooperation arrangements or involvement of people active on the opposition side with the PRL security apparatus. This is a very important element of deceiving the latest history of Poland. Since the beginning of the transition after 1989, I have consistently advocated illustratoring and decommunization, as evidenced by my public activity as a parliamentarian and author of dozens of books and numerous press publications. I wrote very clearly in them, that the grave line was one of the fundamental errors, because it was not separated by clear moral and political censorship of the Third Republic of Poland from the Polish People's Republic. Thirdly, I met Professor Wiesław Chrzanowski in the years of the Polish People's Republic. I got to know him more closely as a man and a politician in February and March 1992. At that time, as a journalist of the Polish Television, I carried out for the Program 1 of Polish Television a 10-track series of programs on the road to freedom, whose hero was the Marshal of the Sejm. After reading the results of the research carried out on the basis of materials gathered about it by the security apparatus of the Polish People's Republic, I still believe that Professor Wiesław Chrzanowski showed a heroic attitude during World War II, and then for many years the Polish People's Republic was extremely repressed. He played a positive and very important role in creating opposition in communist times and actively co-founded the Polish state after the 1989 changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you're gonna make a statement from Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This is a statement addressed to the President of the Constitutional Court, Andrzej Rzepliński, on the indication of the legal basis for not allowing judges of the Tribunal elected by the Sejm and sworn in by the President in December 2015. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal does not allow three out of five judges of the Tribunal elected by the Sejm and sworn by the President in December 2015. On what legal basis does the President do so when there is no legal act or judgment of the Court which invalidates the choice of these three judges? The proceedings before the Court in order to challenge the legality of the selection of these judges have been terminated in the absence of the Court's cognition in matters of individual resolutions of the Sejm. In this state of affairs, elected on 2 December 2015 and sworn in on 3 December 2015, judges have the full status of judges, have the right and the obligation to rule, and blocking their access to judgment is a voluntary and unlawful action. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal is probably aware of this, since he proposed a public political compromise in which he provided for the admission of these judges to the Court, thus confirming the legality of their choice. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-30-senat-09-3.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the ninth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The ninth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 15 minutes 34]]
