ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Elżbieta Borowska, Ms Monika Wielichowska, Mr Piotr Lukasz Babiarz and Mr Arthur Sobonia to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Elżbieta Borowska and Mr Artur Soboń. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Borowska and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 9.45, - Infrastructure - hour 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development jointly with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 12, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 2.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the Infrastructure Commission - h.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 18, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 18, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Solutions to Drug Addiction Problems - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: County Hospitals - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Opposite and Troubleshooting Obesity Problems - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Badminton Promotion - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 16.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u3	Good. Thank you very much. Members have now come forward with formal proposals. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to your mouth. Article 1 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask for an adjournment, a convocation of the Convention of Seniors and an explanation of the High House, why here, in the High House, laws are being sought, clearly violating the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We're talking about a law to amend the physiotherapist's profession. The article was clearly broken here. 34 and 37 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The first reading was held at a committee meeting. It should be held here in the plenary room. In addition, the project was deprived of substantive justification. Let me remind you that the Act of 25 September 2015 was signed by President Andrzej Duda and was to enter into force on 30 May of that year. In a comprehensive manner, it was intended to regulate the functioning of the physiotherapist profession. It was intended to identify issues relating to professional self-government and aim at caring for the patient, making services available to all, whether they use them privately or through the National Health Fund. Well, with this amendment, you bought a one-way ticket for all physiotherapists - a ticket abroad, because the Polish system, the best-educated physiotherapists... That's gonna make 35 grand. Physiotherapy will cease to exist. You want every physiotherapist, whether under the National Health Fund or under private funds, to go with a doctor's referral. In Poland there are 1,700 doctors of rehabilitation, and 70,000 physiotherapists of physiotherapists. It is the third largest medical professional group in Poland. Why are you doing this? It's not just the physiotherapists anymore. Why are you doing this to Polish citizens? 140,000. people signed a draft law on the profession of physiotherapist. You were the ones who said you weren't gonna throw out the voices of society. This amendment, this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're throwing out $140,000. The citizens' voices in the trash. Scandal! [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u5	Mr President, you are referring to the article. 34 and 37 Sejm Rules, right? [[Yes.]] But you can tell me which paragraph in the article. 34? [[Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Five, I'm guessing. It is about the way in which the law is dealt with, it should be conducted in this matter, in the Parliament hall, not in the committee, and the way in which the law is justified.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Art. 37? No, but this needs to be discussed. I'm calling a five-minute recess, and I'm asking you to convene the Senior Convention. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min 07 hrs. 9 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. At the moment, Mr Andrzej Halicki will be speaking with a formal proposal, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland I ask on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform to supplement the order of the current session, i.e. tomorrow, about the government's response to the European Commission's communication on the possibility of initiating the second stage of the procedure under the so-called. a mechanism to protect the rule of law of the European Union. Mr. Marshal! The situation is very serious. We are asking for a very responsible approach to this situation. We have a question: Is it true that Prime Minister Kopacz was on the phone with President Timmermans... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Szydło.]] Ah! [[Bravo, Andrew!]] [[Voice from the room: Let him answer!]] I'll keep you informed... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ... Shieldinski, that yes, many times very good chemistry was between us... [[But absolutely very good.]] ...and representatives of the European Commission. Today, however, there is a dramatic situation for Poland. And when we are talking about the situation that arises from the European Commission's communication, we all need to know whether this warning and telephone conversation by Prime Minister Szydło with Mr Timmermans took place, whether it took place before yesterday's communication was published and what the government's reaction will be until Monday, because we know that the Polish government should respond to this by Monday. We therefore call for the agenda to be extended to include full information on this subject and a fair, responsible approach to this situation. The situation is really special, and that's why we're asking for it, Mr. Marshal. I don't think the Senior Convention will have a problem with that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u7	Thank you very much. Of course, we can consider this, but I would ask for a written request for the next session of the Sejm. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] The Board of Administration and Home Affairs submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item heard three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the present item from the agenda: Report from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 391), together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs (print No 505). The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 534. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. High Seym! At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition was raised to supplement the agenda by the following point: First reading of the government draft law on anti-terrorist activities and amending certain other laws (Print No 516). This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the And we are now voting. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on anti-terrorist actions and amending certain other laws, print No. 516, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's holding back... [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] I'm sorry. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 226 voted against - 189, 3 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Energy and Treasury Commission for consideration. And this is where the Members are asking questions. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Two fundamental remarks to this bill. First of all, I would like to point out that this law means an increase in salaries in companies of the State Treasury, not a reduction in... [[That's not true.]] ...how often it was said from this bleacher. I would like to remind you that the chimney law, which is still in force, provides for six times the remuneration, while the new law that you have proposed, provides for fifteen times in the largest companies. So it's clear. And the second point, ladies and gentlemen, the level of remuneration in the companies of the State Treasury should, in my opinion, be compared with the parliamentary salary. We know that we have already had two such cases, that Members from the Parliaments passed to companies of the Treasury. I have to say... By the way, personally, I would never trade the honorable post for the Polish Parliament. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for even the best paid function in the company of the State Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u9	Please. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that this law aims to increase the remuneration of the State Treasury companies? I'll tell you why. Because the current legal situation, so-called. The chimney bill assumes two formulas of remuneration. First of all, the threshold is six times the salary, and, secondly, the so-called. contracts for other companies. Today we are also introducing two forms of remuneration. On the one hand, we have a 15-fold reduction in basic salary, and on the other we create two gates: the first for special companies, treated differently, and the second one for public companies. In fact, we have the same legal status. We achieve the same and at the same time increase the salary from six to fifteen times. This is contrary to what follows from the idea which accompanies the introduction of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u11	Minister Marek Zagórski, Undersecretary of State, will speak on behalf of the government on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This project normalizes or changes a situation that is pathological today. During the audit we provided information showing the amount of remuneration in the companies of the State Treasury under the current chimney law. If, for Members, the situation... [[And what's that for the ladies? No?]] [[Voice from the room: That's right, that's right.]] ...in which members of the Board of Directors of the Treasury earn PLN 3 million a year, in relation to the maximum level that we propose - 15 times the salary, that is raising the remuneration of this law, we fundamentally disagree here. [[But I want you to put up with the contracts. Get the contracts down.]] This law rationalises remuneration in companies of the State Treasury and therefore causes the pathology which was widespread under the current law, today, to be abolished. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u13	Is that clear? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Then we'll settle this by voting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 514 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 158 voted against - 260, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 534). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 534, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 413 Members voted against - 3, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I would like to inform the High House that at the meeting of the Seniors Convention, which we have just held, we have decided together that at this meeting of the Sejm we will not consider amending the law on physiotherapists. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 23 hours 9 min 27]] We're reconvening. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to ask all those who are not interested to remain silent and give them a chance to conduct their deliberations. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet, okay? It is really very difficult to hold a sitting right now. The first question is asked by Danuta Pietraszewska and Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club, on the future of KWK Wujek and Śląsk, the plants belonging to Katowice Holding Węglowy SA. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy. The first question is asked by Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, A few months ago, Prime Minister Beata Szydło repeatedly said that she would not allow any place of work in mining to be threatened and declared to defend every place of employment. She said, "We want to make it clear to PO and PSL that everything you close, we'll open." As is the case with the current situation, after the establishment of the Polish Mining Group, established on 1 May this year.? Within this group from 1 July are to be connected the Russian mines Room, Halemba and Bielszowice. What will happen to the surface workers and the administration of the combined mines you defended? What employment reductions are envisaged among these workers? What are the rules? Are group redundancies envisaged? Has the reduction in the employment of retired workers been agreed with trade unions and stakeholders themselves? Is it true that in the near future about 4,000. do people have to quit mining as part of its restructuring? Is there an alternative labour market for them? And how does that apply to the Prime Minister's words? Is the Coal Mine of Silesia, as a mine forming part of the holding company, intended to be transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines? If so, why? How many people can lose their jobs? Today the situation of Silesia saves fire at KWK Staszic and Merry, but what will happen in the future? [[♪ The bell ♪]] One last, very important question. How did this happen, Minister, that the regulations had not been changed before, which would allow the cities in which the mines of the former Coal Company operate to obtain tax on the Company's sales? It is Red Silesian and other cities, e.g. Fisherman, Gliwice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u15	Please come to the end of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u16	... Zabrze, bear the costs of mining operations, and the money that could support the city in the elimination of mining damage, will fund the entire city in which the company's headquarters are located, Katowice, where there is not a single mine of the Company.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy by Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Member, I will begin with the last question. I would very much ask you not to follow the speech of Vice President Rudy Silesian Mr. Mejer and not mislead the public. For something else is a fee for a notarial transaction and it would be good if properly calculated figures were given. [[Numbers.]] I'm sending it back to today's Mining Tribune, which explains this because today's paper is coming out, and we're de facto closed. No tax was levied on any municipality. I will ask the question: Where was the notarial act to be included when the Polish Mining Group was appointed? If we were to transfer the mine after the mine, when would it be called? After all, we all know that there was a time determinant. I would ask you to approach with objectivity the historical events that took place during the establishment of the Polish Mining Group and not to introduce concern into the public opinion. As to the question of caring for people working in mining, I would like to say that yes, I confirm, the implementation of the programme has begun, through which with exceptional historical concern is taken care of jobs. Please do not use the group release expression, please do not say that we are depriving someone of a place of work. Although the scope of the question is a little wider than previously reported, I will answer it. The big event is that we signed an agreement with the social side. I think that the previous governments would like to succeed at least halfway. With the social side, with all trade unions we have worked out a compromise and a vision for restructuring mines of the former Coal Company. It seems to me that the historical event is also that out of 11 mines we manage to create 5. [[But don't yell.]] Marshal, I would like to ask Mrs Skowronska not to disturb me. [[But don't yell.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. I ask the Minister to answer the questions calmly, too. Please don't disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you, Marshal. The unprecedented event is that on 11 mines we are able to prepare a program with acceleration to five. This causes us to have synergy of actions, because - that's what we've been saying for years - the key is the deposit, and the mine is a tool to extract the deposit. If it is possible to create plants for complex mines such as Halemba, Bielszowice, Room, which is not new, because this plan has been for many years, it is possible to make investments more efficiently today, which makes for example. In Rud Śląska we are passing on a conversion that requires quite large investments, and we will use a conversion from the Bielszowice mine, which makes it effective to use the assets - this makes the funds collected in capital effectively used to reduce the cost of extraction, to improve coal extraction, to make working time better used by the workers in the mines. As far as administrative staff are concerned, so far there has been no voluntary programme to leave. That's what I'm trying to say. [[It was, the platform had it.]] Member, please do not talk about the Platform. I think the mining platform should shut up once and for all and not talk about care. Excuse me. [[Applause]] This is an area in which you should not speak at all. But let's agree it's gonna take a moment to say something. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history is the voluntary departure programme, which is covered by the administration. Member, please check, for God's sake, please. That hasn't happened yet. And no one's forcing anyone. We have made an offer that workers who are before retirement, especially ladies, can benefit from what in the SRK we have adopted, which is the law that allows the programme to be implemented last year. I just want to make it clear that there are no exemptions, all decisions that are made are voluntary, and for a few months now surveys have been distributed so that we can analyze the movement of people from the mine to the mine, possibly those who wish to leave the administration voluntarily, can benefit from appropriate checks. I would like to say that this is an exceptional event when it comes to restructuring in any industry. And that should be considered a great success of this government... [[You copied the Platform program.]] ...and to keep your word by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and her government, because we are doing what the Prime Minister said. As for the issue of the Silesia mine and the question that was asked concerning the Uncle mine, please note that today there are no decisions, there are plans of PTE, which also, because I am running out of time, I can provide you. There is also a repair program carried out in the coal holding company, as in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. It is currently being further analysed due to the difficult situation on the coal market. On the one hand, it is necessary to respond to the reduction of mining costs also in Katowice Coal Holding. Senator Piecha's audit ended, which indicated that we have a major economic problem with the Staszic and Murcki mines, or actually Staszic. As far as Mysłowice-Merry is concerned, it is a mine which of course has its reserves, but today has a positive result. The challenge is, of course, Uncle's mine and Silesia mine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] where the analysis works are currently underway and it is about prepared walls for extraction, because Wujek already works in part of the Staszic mine. And Silesia, as we know, has recently been analyzed by the Higher Mining Authority due to the fact that this is the most difficult mine in terms of safety, so there we have to carry out a particular analysis and add concern when it comes to the preparation of coal mining in this mine, because we all remember very well, we remember the recent tragic events, this is the most tenpanic mine in Poland. I just want to say that I thank you for caring about jobs in mining, and I thank you for caring about the industry, but believe me, I think you should root for this government and support it because it's doing things that are for others to be envious of. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Please provide the document, page number where the programme for the mining of Laws and Justice is described. Returning to voluntary programmes - Minister, I remember that when we discussed the Mining Act, then the presidents clearly said that such programmes are being implemented, they are being implemented. Returning to this historic moment - yes, ladies and gentlemen, it was in January that historic moment when we adopted the bill that became your lifeline for the implementation of this reform, which was prepared by the Minister of Czerwiński, by the government of Ewa Kopacz. Minister, you slipped through the topic of Katowice Coal Holding, the Silesian mine. Tell me clearly what's in the plan for these mines. Do you have a restructuring program prepared? What's in your program? In your program saved, not the Civic Platform, because we have created a restructuring program for the whole. And you point out what's written down for these mines. 'Cause you're talking today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] : I don't know, there's audit, etc. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! To be honest, it is difficult to answer such questions, not because they are substantively difficult. Mr President, really, if you are saying that there was a programme for Polish mining, then, ladies and gentlemen, we live in other worlds. [[You copy it.]] Do you not remember what you left behind? Don't you remember that your presidents of energy companies have disobeyed the Prime Minister? [[But the facts.]] That is a fact, my fellow Member. [[Voice from the room: Facts.]] That is a fact, my fellow Member. Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: You're welcome to take it easy. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: This is really the last area where you can speak. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Jastrzębska firm in bankruptcy, Węglow Company in the state of... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'll get right on it. The Bank's Bank of Greece, 8 / 8 billions of debt left in the Coal Company, billions in the Jastrzębska Company, at a holding company of 3 billion, ladies and gentlemen. And you want to talk about the program? [[Voice from the room: We want to hear from you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say this: This is an incredible thing that you are saying that you have left any program, that you by the presidents had a repair program. Yes, President Zagórowski talked about a great situation in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and suddenly he signed a deal with the bank, where the put option is. On the other hand... [[Voice from the hall: But ours is available, and yours is not.]] I don't want to go into polemics because I think it's a waste of time. Time is needed to actually repair the Katowice holding company and the hawk company. [[Voice from the room: Facts, documents.]] On the other hand, as far as PTE is concerned, i.e. the technical and economic plan, these are the facts, dear country from the Civic Platform, that we have a party J prepared today, are prepared funds for the mines of Wujek and Silesia, for investments that were prepared last year. There's almost 50 million for these investments. Currently, the amount of these measures is being analysed because we need to increase the expenditure to ensure security in the Silesia mine. And that is the precise answer to the fact that you have not prepared the walls. J wall is pulled out and she closes the Silesia mine. [[No, it wasn't. The walls were ready.]] Your marshal, for God's sake, can I answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u23	But if you answered questions and didn't run polemics, it'd be easier in the O.R. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: But I don't run polemics, but... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down, okay? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...there are always shouts from the questioners. [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: I know it's exciting because the truth hurts, but, by God, let me answer it. [[Voice from the room: Well, here it is.]] [[But we're telling the truth.]] Mrs Skowronska, you are confusing the truth... You're welcome, Minister. Please... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...with flights to the moon. Believe me. ...answer questions. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: As you say about the truth, I'll tell you that I think you're talking about the newspaper, but not the truth. About... [[Voice in the O.R.: Maybe you'd like to start answering questions.]] ...the Silesian mine, this is currently an analysis of the investments on other coal deposits, because there is only one wall prepared, wall J. Other walls, on the other hand [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're very dumb, and they're very dangerous. And it is not enough what was prepared by the previous board of directors. So now and the Higher Mining Authority has carried out a specific analysis of the situation of this mine, because we cannot allow it to operate with such low charges on the other parties and the other walls, because this threatens with additional dangerous events in this mine. And that's the truth. Currently, there are also talks with the social side. And I'd love to ask for one too. If you are concerned about real concern for the hard coal sector, do not encourage anxiety. Minister, get closer to the punch line. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: They're gone, they're just gone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the second question - asked by Members Wojciech Buczak and Piotr Babinetz from the Law and Justice Club - on the failure of regular transport of public passengers by collective transport between Poland and Slovakia, addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The first question is asked by Wojciech Buczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Currently, there is virtually no regular transport of public persons by collective transport between Poland and Slovakia. Paradoxically, despite the lifting of borders and opening up to the movement of bus and rail passengers between our countries, they have frozen. Almost all railway connections have been closed, e.g. not one passenger train runs through the border crossing point in Muszyna and Łupkowo. There are many reasons for this state of affairs, among others. negligence in recent years in the area of the maintenance and expansion of road and rail infrastructure, but also problems of a bureaucratic nature when dealing with international transport permits and the lack of coordination of connections and timetables between the two sides of the border. An effective solution to this problem would be the conclusion of a Polish-Slovak international agreement, whereby local cross-border bus and rail connections would be treated as national connections, and the simplification of the procedures for the admission of Polish and Slovak railway vehicles on railway lines in the border area. In recent months, thanks to such a bottom-up social initiative of rail enthusiasts, railway transport and innovative railway tourism projects have developed splendidly in the areas of the southern Podkarpackie voivodship, as well as in Małopolska. Similar initiatives are being developed on the Slovak side. Unfortunately, their development is hindered by these bureaucratic obstacles. At the end of May, next week, an away meeting of the Infrastructure Commission will take place in Podkarpackie Voivodeship, during which, among other things, it is envisaged. meeting with representatives of local government from Slovakia to discuss possible forms of cooperation, cooperation [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this area. In this connection, we ask the question: Were the contacts at government level between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and its Slovak counterpart taken or planned to discuss the solution to communication problems in border areas?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u25	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, will answer the question. But before you answer, allow me to welcome the young people from Junior High School 1 to Ełk, who is listening to today's proceedings. [[Applause]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u26	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the Member's question, it must be said that the small scale of cross-border passenger transport is a consequence of two factors. One is insufficient infrastructure and the other is also a low level of supply and demand for such services in the local market. Unfortunately, in Polish-Slovak contacts, this movement is small and it becomes a closed circle, right? There is no traffic, there is no infrastructure, and others say: there is no infrastructure, there is no traffic. However, in the field of road infrastructure in 2016 and 2017 the S69 expressway will be opened on the Polish side and the D3 motorway on the Slovak side in the Zwardonia and Skalité region. This is part of the corridor of the European core network. At the initiative of the Polish transport ministers, Poland, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia, Turkey, Ukraine and Hungary signed the Chain II Declaration in which they committed themselves to the completion of the Via Carpatia road as soon as possible, where the S19 express road on the Polish side and R4 on the Slovak side is to be located. Measures to improve rail infrastructure are also being carried out. The railway investment project related to the construction of the new line Podłęże - Szczyrzyc - Mszana Dolna/Tymbark is currently included in the reserve list in the National railway programme until 2023. The process of updating this programme is underway. In view of the importance of the project for the construction of the new Substrate - Piebello line, measures have been taken to identify all available sources of funding for the project and to divide the project into stages. The construction of the Podłęże - Piebello and modernization of the 104 railway line is divided into three stages. The first stage is the preparatory work and the purchase of land - the cost of 340 million. The second stage is the modernisation of the 104th railway line - the cost of more than 3 billion. The third stage - the construction of the subterfuge - Piecello - the cost of 3.5 billion. We want the source of funding from Juncker's plan. In the framework of the National Railway Programme update, measures for the implementation of Stage 1 shall be secured by the introduction of an action on the main list of the National Railway Programme. The implementation of the task will allow the creation of an alternative route for connections with Slovakia through the existing border crossing point in Muszyn. I would like to say that the organizer of public collective transport carried out in a cross-border zone in accordance with the Public Collective Transport Act is the organizer responsible for the area or scope of transport, i.e. the municipality, inter-city union, district union, county-city union, metropolitan union and voivodship respectively. The Minister responsible for transport is the organizer of public collective transport in relation to inter-voivodship and international passenger transport in rail transport. Local passenger transport between Poland and Slovakia is carried out by the Silesian Railways through the Zwardon crossing, while long-distance passenger transport runs on the Polish section through PKP Intercity, which runs through the Czech Republic. We do not have any information on the plans of the Slovak Ministry of Transport regarding the development of passenger transport with Poland. On the other hand, it is planned to address the issue of improving public cross-border passenger transport on the Polish-Slovak border at the next bilateral meeting. To this end, both sides provide for a meeting within the Polish-Slovak ministerial group on transport cooperation. The exchange of experience should take place at this meeting, arrangements should be made, priorities should be set, a joint action programme agreed, and the restrictions in both countries' domestic law should be discussed, as well as the objective and scope of any future agreement or separate agreement, if the parties so agree. So far, we have an agreement from 1994. These conversations will be carried out. This year we are planning a meeting of the Polish-Slovak intergovernmental group, but before that, the ministerial transport cooperation group should also meet in the autumn, and these problems which you have spoken about will be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u27	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask you a second question, which is asked by Mr Piotr Babinetz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u28	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! At the moment, the railway infrastructure in Podkarpacie in the context of connection with Slovakia is indeed weak, but there is already a lot of demand thanks to the actions of the local government of Podkarpackie Voivodeship and also, first of all, local initiatives, bottom-up initiatives. On the other hand, Minister, in connection with the work on the revitalization of the railway infrastructure of the Polish-Slovak border crossing in Łupkow and the modernization of the railway line Rzeszów - Jasło, as well as Jasło - Krosno - Sanok - Zagórz and then to Łupkow, another concept is important, namely the execution of a railway liaison which significantly reduces the time of the railway journey from Rzeszów to Krosno and Bieszczady, as well as the lowering of the tracks on the eastern part of the town of Krosna. This project is a very good complement to the strategic work on revitalizing the railway transition in Łupkowo and bearing in mind the break-up of the railway transition in Muszyno due to the floods in 2010, all the more necessary is the action taking into account the direction of Łupków, not only due to passenger transport, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but for rail transport. They are conducted on the construction of this liaison with the local government, with PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe. I therefore ask whether it is possible to ask for this project to be included in strategic tasks in the framework of the modernisation of railway infrastructure in both national and cross-border contexts as part of the development of cooperation and communication between Poland and the Carpathian countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u30	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Connections towards the border crossing point are not planned. We only want to implement this link between Przeworsk and Jasł, but there is no plan to implement some new railway line or to revitalize the line towards the border crossing. Perhaps that... It is simply that the measures in the national railway programme are limited and we need to implement these investments, which are strategically important for the Polish state. At the moment, this border crossing is not considered strategic, and it is not in this plan. Perhaps if there were some backup measures, it could be realized, but for today, unfortunately, we cannot make such a promise that this passage... Investment towards this transition is not planned. So that here, unfortunately, the answer is negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members: Mr Marek Sowa and Mrs Dorota Niedziela, the Civic Platform Club, on the implementation of the Oświęcim Strategic Government Programme, and it is addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Oświęcim Strategic Government Programme has been implemented since 1997. The tasks carried out in the previous stages of the Oświęcim Strategic Government Programme have contributed to the implementation of the surroundings of the extermination mass storage sites, the improvement of the communication availability of Oświęcim and the visibility of its educational and tourist advantages. In August Ub. The Council of Ministers adopted a further fifth stage of the programme for the years 2016 and 2020 in the year. It provides for the continuation of tasks aimed at commemorating the largest mass extermination site in Poland and the world of millions of people. As part of Stage V, investments are to be completed in previous years of key importance for accessibility and improvement of communication, such as the road decoupling the pre-muse of the museum, the road to Judenrampe and potatoes - historical sites of very symbolic importance, the adaptation of former potato stores to permanent museum exposition, the development of a spatial planning plan of the commune of Oświęcim - the area of the Brzezinka, Harmęże, the Swimmings surrounding the Holocaust Monument and the construction of an educational and sports centre. The beneficiaries of the programme are local governments of the city of Oświęcim, the commune of Oświęcim, the district of Oświęcim and the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. 53 175 000 will be earmarked for the implementation of the programme in 2016 and 2020. PLN, including expenditure from the special reserve of the State budget - 35 million and measures representing the contribution of the beneficiaries - 18 175 000. I'd like to ask you why, despite the passage, [[♪ The bell ♪]] close to 5 months and secure funds in the state budget implementation of this programme this year is stopped by the Lesser Poland Voivodeship? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u33	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Sebastian Chwałek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! The multi-annual programme "Oświęcim's Strategic Government Programme - Stage V 2016-2020" - the stage we are talking about - is of course a continuation of the previous, fourth stage, implemented in 2012 and 2015. The idea of the program, as you mentioned, is to provide financial assistance to the units of the local government of the Oświęcim land and to ensure the proper honor of the place of commemoration of the mass extermination of Jews and the martyrdom of the Polish people and other nations. It is a government instrument supporting local communities in carrying out their own tasks, aimed at organizing and improving the aesthetics of the zone around the former German Nazi concentration and extermination camp Auschwitz-Birkenau and other sites of martyrdom, ensuring worthy respect for the victims of genocide by creating the right conditions for better access to the largest extermination site in Europe and the world, which is included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, as well as to solve problems related to its functioning in a living urban organism, guaranteeing the inhabitants of Oświęcim a decent life in the shadow of the former extermination camp. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the new phase, the investments you spoke about will be carried out, aimed at organizing and developing the area in the surroundings of the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum, improving communication accessibility and tourist attractiveness, and developing the educational function of Oświęcim. The planned actions are crucial for the full implementation of the vision of ensuring social peace around the former Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp and for creating conditions worthy of commemoration. The programme, as you mentioned, is dedicated to the amount of PLN 53 million, of which 35 million are budget resources, the funds constituting the contribution of the beneficiaries are about PLN 18 million. With regard to the first question, it should be mentioned that the provision of the special-purpose reserve for the performance of tasks is guaranteed by the Budgetary Act from the date of its adoption - 25 February, and the announcement of 4 March - it is possible to take action as set out in point 9 of the Annex to Resolution 146/2015 of the Council of Ministers of 18 August 2015 on the establishment of a multiannual programme under the name of "Oświęcim' strategic government programme - Stage V 2016-2020. According to the provisions of this programme, I will quote here: after consulting the beneficiaries, the voivode is preparing an annual in-kind financial plan setting out the annual or multiannual tasks to be carried out in the financial year. As you know, the in-kind financial plan defines, among others. the scope of the task in question, its developers and the amount of expenditure both of the State budget and of the financial contribution of the beneficiaries. According to the plans adopted in the establishment of stage 5 of the programme, in 2016 Oświęcim's tasks will be realized by the Małopolskie Voivodeship, Oświęcim County, Oświęcim City and Oświęcim Municipality. The current financial and factual plan for the current year was developed by the Małopolskie Voivodeship on the basis of materials provided by these entities - confirmation of readiness to carry out tasks and securing their financial contribution to the recipients in correspondence sent by the President of the City of Oświęcim on 29 March, the starosta of Oświęcim on 4 April 2016, the commune of Oświęcim in a letter dated 6 April 2016 and the director of the management of the voivodeship roads in Krakow in a letter dated 7 April. The plan prepared by the Małopolska Voivodeship for the "Oświęcim Strategic Government Programme" for 2016 was sent to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for approval at the end of April. This programme has been approved and its implementation will begin. High Izbo! Referring to the second question on the plan to amend the programme by extending the number of beneficiaries... [[I'm just gonna ask that question.]] Good. It's about the first question - thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. The second question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u36	I understand that the Minister wanted to answer me earlier, but my question is: Are you really planning to change the programme? by including the municipality of Brzeszcze in the group of beneficiaries? Such information was provided to the services of the voivodship. Further delays can result not only in the inability to carry out tasks, but also in huge delays. I just want to remind you that I have a memo from the meeting on Stage V of the programme of 22 March, where all the beneficiaries, and the county, and the president of the city, have asked you and justified that Brzeszcze as a city are so far away and are not entirely connected with this programme, never have been, never are. There is a clear statement here that all these participants in the meeting and beneficiaries are not as if possible and justified, given the strategic programme, its assumptions [[♪ The bell ♪]] and his purpose, so it'll be extended to Brzeszcze's commune. Is this all about where the Prime Minister comes from?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Sebastian Chwałek, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, corresponds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I said in the first part of my speech, the program was accepted and will be implemented. There are no delays, it is implemented according to the schedule. The last documents to analyze the voivode arrived at the beginning of April. We have the second half of May, so very quickly it was all reviewed, also reviewed by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, and it was approved, so it will be implemented. [[Birch.]] As for the Bleeding itself. It fell here... [[Birch.]] Birch, yeah. As far as Brzeszcz itself is concerned, it is, of course, planned in some way. I mean, I'll say it like that. The municipality, the commune's mayor, Brzeszcze Municipality, submitted an application to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration for participation in the programme. This was also the case with the municipality of Chełmek. However, these two proposals have been assessed. It looks like at the moment that, first of all, it doesn't stop the realization of this so-called... [[But how were they assessed?]] Excuse me? [[You told the minister they'd been evaluated, but we don't know how.]] They were assessed in such a way that they would not be taken into account in the Auschwitz programme this year. [[They're not fulfilling...]] They do not meet, i.e. the projects that have been proposed, are currently not to be taken into account. This is due to the opinion of the entities to which it was sent: the voivodeship, the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum. The program in this version is being implemented, as I said. The question of supplementing the other municipalities will simply be analysed. If necessary, perhaps in the following years it will be or will not be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u39	I understand that the money pool is locked in the program, so if this money goes to land outside any influence of the monument and the camp, it's supposed to be illegal? Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: No additional entities are currently attached to the programme. It will be implemented on schedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u40	Good. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza and Mr Stanisław Tyszka, the Kukiz club15, on the tax-free amount in the statement of PIT - to the Minister of Finance. The question is asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland we have an exceptionally low tax-free amount, much lower than in other countries of the European Union. Its level is lower. even than the so-called. existential minimum, which in Poland amounts to PLN 544 per month. This means that taxpayers who cannot afford to raise enough money to survive a month must pay additional tax in Poland, which is absurd. This is precisely the reason why the Constitutional Tribunal, at the request of the Ombudsman, dealt with the provisions on the amount of tax free in force in the present form. He considered them incompatible with the Constitution and decided that they would cease to apply from 30 November 2016. On the other hand, Polish parliamentarians have, you can say, ten times higher tax-free revenues due to parliamentary diets. April 29th this year The project of the Kukiz club15 on equalisation of the tax-free amount for parliamentarians and ordinary citizens came into play. This is print number 523. I'm gonna add it right here, 'cause maybe there's gonna be such a point that diet is a refund of some kind. I would like to remind you that Members, senators, parliamentarians already have these returns, have both free accommodation and free travel. Here's my question. Does the Minister believe that it is appropriate to align the tax-free amount for parliamentarians to the level of the free amount of ordinary citizens, or to increase the free amount [[♪ The bell ♪]] on taxes for ordinary citizens up to 30,000, as is the case with parliamentarians? Let me add that this first solution brings budget savings of almost PLN 3 million per year.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u42	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for asking. Let me put it this way: there is no government position on the bill that the Kukiz Parliamentary Club has declared15. It is therefore difficult for me to answer directly what should happen when it comes to the cost of obtaining revenue, a free amount for parliamentarians. As for this amount free - that is the part of the question in which Mr Kulesza pointed out the amount free for those who are not parliamentarians - that work is being carried out in the Ministry of Finance in order to prepare a project by 30 November which will implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Indeed, in the update of the convergence programme, we have drawn attention to a scenario that is feasible. Of course, everything will depend on the decision of the government, on the decision of the Council of Ministers, which must politically decide to increase the amount free at one time or in the following years. Then such a project will be prepared or prepared, but it will be accepted by the Council of Ministers and it will be a government project. The proposal, i.e. what appeared in the update of the convergence programme, concerns to increase the amount free gradually. At present, this amount is at a slightly higher level than 3 000. PLN and then the amount free would increase by 1 000. PLN in subsequent years. The effect on the state budget would be that this amount free would be... Raise it by $1,000. zł, i.e. from level ok. $3,000. PLN up to 4,000. zł, resulting in a reduction of budgetary revenue in the entire public finance system by about PLN 4 billion. It is so that in a little over half it has an effect on the state budget, but of course the increase also has an impact on the finances of local government units, as well as the National Health Fund. For this reason, we are deeply analysing the effects of potential changes as regards the amount of free money, so that the budgets of local government units do not really suffer and this shape is also appropriate for the sustainability of public finances. Therefore - I will repeat this again - we are doing our work. The sentence should be executed by 30 November. As far as the proposal to change the amount of free money for parliamentarians is concerned, there is no government position, and therefore I cannot answer the question of how it should be, what should be the amount for parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u44	Thank you very much. Once again, Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, asks the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u45	Thank you very much. Minister! Thank you for presenting such a rather brief, concise schedule of work on raising this tax-free amount. The Prime Minister also announced in her exposé that the tax-free amount would be increased within the first 100 days of the government. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. I hope that although this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal obliges you to prepare a project, and I hope that it will not, contrary to what you say, increase the tax-free amount by PLN 2 as it was in 2009, or by tens of PLN, as it was in 2008. The timetable you have presented shows that the rights of citizens and parliamentarians, i.e. income exempt from tax, according to the timetable for raising this amount by 1 000. PLN per year, will be equal in 2046. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it only then that citizens will be able to look forward to justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, once again answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So the plan, the timetable, is to increase the amount free to the level of 8,000 declared by the Prime Minister. zł. In this respect, this free amount should increase annually in the following years until this level is reached. And I understand that this calculation of the Member assumes that the amount free will increase in the following years after exceeding 8,000. zł. There is no such declaration that the amount free will reach the level of 30,000. zł. Therefore, I suspect that in this sense the calculation may not be possible, that we do not know what the decision will be in the event of changes as regards the amount free for parliamentarians. This is the decision of the High House, and in this sense it is difficult to foresee any timetable, because it will be the High House that will decide what will happen to the amount free for parliamentarians and at which point this will be equalised. I would therefore not be so sure that this is the year that you have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jan Łopata and Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, on the introduction of a uniform method of product assessment for environmental impact. The question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Jan Łopata is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u49	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In recent years, the last 8 years, during the governance with the participation of the Polish People's Party, with ministers Pawlak, Piechocinski, Kalemba and Sawicki, the value of Polish food exports has increased from EUR 10 billion to EUR 23.6 billion. It is worth repeating and remembering these amounts: from €10 billion to €24 billion. This increase has contributed to the fact that, for the first time since the transformation, we have had a global surplus of exports over imports. And that is a fact, an undeniable fact. But this situation requires constant monitoring and, as it seems, government aid. And in this context, it is quite alarming to hear from the European Commission, which concludes its work on harmonising the method on which the impact of the product on the environment will be determined. And the point is, at least this is explained so that it is easier and more transparent, because now every member country is applying its solutions, and that makes it difficult to determine the production of which product is less, which is more harmful to the environment. The problem is that at this stage, the method of assessing the environmental impact of a product is based on the way in which energy is obtained in a given country. In our country, as we know, it comes mainly from coal, which is considered to be the least favourable environment, and therefore products produced in Poland will fall worse against those coming from countries where other sources of energy are popular, so-called. renewable energy sources. This will mean worse notes for our goods and, consequently, we expect, unfortunately, a decrease in sales in foreign markets. In addition, this environmental assessment will drop - costs for companies. In this regard, we ask the question: What measures does the agricultural ministry intend to take to prevent [[♪ The bell ♪]] negative assessments of Polish products in the common European market? What is Poland's position on the methodology proposed by Brussels for assessing the environmental impact of products at the European Commission working group meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u50	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ewa Lech, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, it is one of the resorts that are very interested in it. On the other hand, as far as these matters are concerned, a representative of the Ministry of Development is involved in such a steering committee and a representative of the Ministry of Environment is working on the technical advisory committee. Of course, we act as a consultative element if there is some instruction. What he has mentioned is indeed a problem. At first, I would just like to explain that when we talk about organic products, we mean not organic food, because it has to meet the requirements of itself, that is, production of organic products must meet the requirements of many assortment groups, ranging from food to industrial materials. What are the measures planned to be taken by the agricultural department? If we decide, we will have something to say about marking, first of all we will want this type of marking of products, e.g. where there will be an indication that the product was produced with coal, it was voluntary. We understand that when it comes to emissions into the environment, pollution that causes carbon consumption in the production of energy for the production of products or products so-called. ecologically, it matters a lot. As the interest of consumers in Europe is quite high, they are willing to pay a higher price for organically produced products. So such products can be labelled in this way. So we will opt for this marking to be introduced on a voluntary basis. Furthermore, we will not support any of the methodologies currently being developed under the pilot phase as long as this method does not eliminate distortions in competitiveness. In short, what the European Commission is proposing puts us in a worse position. We will therefore object. As far as the agricultural department is concerned - I can only speak in this respect - there are measures taken to ensure that, in production or in general in agriculture, everything that is produced, produced, is produced using better, more efficient methods when it comes to emissions into the environment. I would just like to say that investment activities in the framework of the RDP favour, above all, economic technologies in terms of water consumption, energy consumption, low-carbon technologies. Such technologies or production methods are the highest scored. Beneficial practices are used. Environmental and climate practices are supported. In fact, it's about wooding, greening and permanent grassland. I also want to say that 30% the budget under the Rural Development Programme shall be used to support good agricultural practices. It's important, too. We will also pay close attention to the proposals made by the European Commission. I'm saying this from the agricultural department's point of view. We will look at the European Commission's proposals for new obligations on the agricultural sector. As far as this general statement is concerned, we will also protest against this - the assessment of products produced by different methods - so that products produced from the same area by different methods are not compared. In short, the research carried out by the Polish Ministry of Development on behalf of the Minister of Development shows that when companies use the same technology in different countries, their environmental assessment may be diametrically different due to the type of electricity used. We will be involved in the work of these working groups. I would also like to say that there is a link on the website of the Ministry of Development to a document that has the title: Environmental efficiency of products and organisations. This is within the framework of these pilot actions. Any organisation that produces anything, any product, can participate in the consultation. Here are the listed assortment groups. To sum up, in answer to the first question, we will support solutions that will not disturb our products in terms of competitiveness, which will put them in a bad position. That's all I have to say about the Minister of Agriculture. I stress that we will not support any of the methodologies currently being developed in the pilot phase as long as the threat of distortion of competitiveness is realistic. Here, I'd stress it with all my power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u53	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, To my knowledge, this way of food labelling doesn't have much to do with its quality. The question must therefore be asked: Isn't the real purpose of this project not to favour an economy that makes effective use of limited environmental resources? It is true that the Minister or the Minister is not a minister of the environment, but the Minister of Agriculture is a member of the government. That is why I ask you: Isn't it worth it - or maybe even need - to give more attention to renewable energy sources at a government meeting? Dear Minister, we have listened very carefully to your explanation, but unfortunately we are concerned about your statement, and I quote: If we have anything to say. I would ask you to extend this statement in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u54	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for an answer from Minister Ewa Lech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u55	Indeed, it was unfortunate to say: If we have something to say, because as members, as a member country, we will always have something to say. So that was an unfortunate statement. What I'm trying to say is that what I've mentioned is these specific actions with regard to the Ministry of Agriculture. Could I ask you to repeat that question, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u56	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u57	I pointed out that this quality assessment had nothing to do with quality, and I asked the Minister if it was worth more attention at the government meeting for renewable energy sources. However, it is clear that European countries want to favour renewable energy sources in this assessment, and we are unfortunately not doing so well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u59	The issue of renewable energy sources will, of course, be discussed. I agree that what we are talking about has nothing to do with quality - it is about pollution and simply about implementing a low-carbon economy. Here I confirm, you are right, sir. But we'll be looking at the RES. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u60	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by MEPs Maria Zuba, Krzysztof July and Marek Kwitek from the Law and Justice Club, on the actions the government is taking to improve the situation of the homeless... [[Unemployed.]] ...in local labour markets, and what is the place in this system for county labour offices. The question is addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Maria Zuba is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u61	Excuse me, Marshal, but I was asking about the situation of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u62	Did I misspoke?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u63	Yes, Your Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u64	Excuse me, unemployed. On the measures taken by the government to improve the situation of the unemployed in local labour markets, and on the place in this system...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u65	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u66	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! 2 years ago it was introduced amendment of the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. She has made a number of changes to improve the situation and the unemployed, and employers. First of all, this law was also intended to give a good tool to employees of district labour offices, for which the performance of these tasks should serve to assess the classification concerning the achievements of district labour offices. Unfortunately, after 2 years of operation of this law, employees of district labour offices have a number of reservations and comments. First of all, they believe that there are several disadvantages in this law. They consider such an unnecessary tool to be, among others. the process of profiling unemployment aid, as it is time-consuming and has no concrete effect. The needs of unemployed people are recognised during registration. At the same time, they think that we should consider excluding individual action plans for people with a third aid profile from the obligation to draw up individual action plans. The introduced National Training Fund is a successful solution [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lot of interest. Nevertheless, it has a number of non-precision solutions. Therefore, this situation allows for any interpretation. And here they see a need for clarification.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u68	Please come to the end of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u69	These records do not specify, among others. the working time of the worker. The funding of education can be used by newly employed persons, e.g. for a one-eighth job contract. The Authority may not control training institutions. Employees believe that these shortcomings should be addressed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u70	Thank you very much, Member. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question about local labour markets and the role of district labour offices. I think it would be difficult to see here that district labour offices play a huge role in the fight against unemployment, in the creation of new jobs, because this is the institution that deals with it. However, before answering these specific questions, it may be worthwhile to give a few words to what is the current situation in the labour market today, because it is something to be proud of. At the end of April we have an unemployment rate of 9.6%. This is the lowest unemployment rate this month for 25 years, and that's good news. In absolute figures, there are still more than 1.5 million unemployed. However, it is also worth paying attention to the specificities of unemployment. This unemployment continues to vary widely in our country, and strongly so. There are voivodships where unemployment is already below 6% but there are still voivodships where unemployment is double-digit, more than 20%, speaking in the district system. So it's important. If we look at the voivodship from which you are from, the unemployment rate at the end of April is 12.1%. , means it is still much higher than the unemployment rate in the country, but as we will look at the individual e.g. the powiats, it is in the district of Buskie below 7%, and in the district of Skarżysk less than 22%, which means that the difference is still very large. It is therefore important that in these works, also in accordance with the law that operates, seek such instruments as to eliminate these differences. Of course, employment offers are an important element. At the moment these job offers are far more. In the first quarter alone, employers reported more than 357 thousand. offers. This is also much more than in the same period last year. In addition to job offers, such a second instrument is measures for activating activities, i.e. active forms of countering unemployment. In this year's budget we have over PLN 6200 million for active forms of combating unemployment. This is already a significant means to benefit from. Last year more than 0.5 million people were activated from these funds, and in the first quarter more than 100,000 people were activated. It is also worth noting that we have already launched the transfer process in January. Here we have tried to ensure that, at the time of the adoption of the budget law, these funds have already been transferred to the county offices so that these instruments can be used more quickly. Now, in answer to the question from the Member: At the moment, we are at such a stage that, according to the Act, we are preparing an assessment of the effects of the regulations introduced 2 years ago, including among others, by the end of June. also a profiling issue. I personally assessed these changes negatively, but they already function, you have to see how it works. I know for sure that if we are to maintain this system, we need to make it very flexible so that there are no such situations as today, that there are instructions on how to use and what profile to qualify for. That's probably what we need to change. As part of this consultation I am often at meetings in the country, I meet with the directors of the county labour offices and voivodship labour offices to consult, but also not only, because I meet with trade union organisations and employers' organisations, in order to make the most of the situation concerning the law itself and those instruments that function. The Member spoke about the National Training Fund. Yeah, this fund has a lot of interest. We have now changed the rules, we have abolished this barrier for 45 years, the fund is more accessible, but we also know that there are quite a lot of different abuses, and that also needs to be changed. In general, we want in autumn, after receiving surveys from labour offices, to prepare for a decision on either the preparation of a new labour market law or the revision of the current one. Here the vast majority of employees of labour offices, but also those who use their work, i.e. job seekers, entrepreneurs, are in favour of us writing a new law, simpler, clearer for all. This law on promotion of employment and labour market institutions, which is currently in operation, has already been amended several dozen times. Here we have to decide whether we want to make changes. I think that in this discussion it is also an important element whether, after administrative changes, the functioning of labour offices, which are district labour offices, is the optimal solution, or whether a change should be made here. The voices are divided. From the position of the state responsible for labour market policy, the impact on local labour markets is small, because it is the local authorities that make decisions. It is worth considering this, because this system that we have here is an event on the scale of European countries, because most European countries have a system that is a government system to fight unemployment. It's a little different with us. But in the autumn, I think we'll be prepared to decide if we're writing a new law on the labour market, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether we are updating these laws, so that all the shortcomings you have mentioned, but also which are reported to us by representatives of county labour offices, employers and job seekers, take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam, I ask you a further question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u73	Minister! Thank you so much for your answer. The list of comments and conclusions that affect me during meetings with the employees of the county labour offices is longer. I will allow myself to send it, but employees also ask about the location of employment agencies in this new system. They are very interested in this because, in fact, the employment agency receives, as if it had already been prepared by the county labour office, and at the same time have better conditions to offer, because the funds offered by the unemployed are higher. Will it be maintained and will it be developed? 'Cause really, the county labor office is ready to take over this operation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and carry out its activities efficiently in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u74	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Szwed, Minister Stanisław Szwed is answering again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! This instrument, which you are talking about, concerning employment agencies, comes from the fact that today we have such a situation that almost 50% unemployed are long-term unemployed, i.e. over 12 months. There is no more such a simple shift, whether this drop in unemployment will be significant, because they are the hardest unemployed. These are long-term unemployed, but also unemployed who are returning to registration. Over 70% These are the people who were registered out there, whether they were in the employment offices. Hence it was the idea to find a way to make these most difficult people can be activated differently. The solution was that private employment agencies would deal with this. Today, this instrument is not working well because all the materials are prepared by the labour offices. Of course, there are appropriate conditions that must be met in order to receive these funds. These measures are much larger than in other programmes. I think that, as part of this evaluation of the functioning of the law, this is also one of the elements that will be subject to scrutiny. Voices that influence from voivodship labour offices and district labour offices, because it also goes through almost the entire program, through voivodship labour offices, are definitely critical, I would say about this solution. I do not want to prejudice whether we will keep this instrument, because it may be worth keeping it, but to modify it to actually help the unemployed, it was not so expensive, but it gave jobs, especially to those groups that are most likely, so to speak, vulnerable to the lack of employment opportunities. Those people I've already told you about, there's a lot in our records. That's the big problem we're facing. So that I'm not saying here that I'm not. It is worth introducing non-governmental organisations in this instrument concerning district labour offices and voivodship labour offices. And the question is whether we can add employment agencies to that too. I think that at this stage we are able to modify it so that it is a good instrument that will help these people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u76	Minister, maybe one more question. In view of this different scale of unemployment, will you address different criteria to the county labour offices, i.e. preferences for those who are most difficult to get a job?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u77	Madam President, there is also a question of those instruments which were intended to improve the efficiency of the work of district labour offices. It is famous for 5+2, i.e. increasing expenditure on the functioning of labour offices regarding the effectiveness of their activities. This instrument needs to be modified, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and higher measures must be where there is actually a more difficult situation on the labour market where this aid is due, but there must also be stability of employment. It cannot be that every year we have to investigate whether these funds go to the employment offices or not. This is worth writing down directly in the Act and looking for other instruments that will improve efficiency and will also have a financial impact on those employment offices that work more effectively, especially in those regions of the country where unemployment is much more difficult than elsewhere. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Waldemar Andzel, Czesław Sobierajski and Marek Pole from the Law and Justice Club on the reconstruction of waterways. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Mr Waldemar Andzel is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A recent debate on the state of public affairs and state institutions was held in the Sejm at the end of the PO and PSL governments. This coalition has led inland navigation to disaster. Investment outlays in 2007 and 2013 amounted to only 0,44% funds allocated to transport, and losses amounted to tens of millions of zlotys. Therefore, the current government must take steps to make a significant improvement. Currently, there are three waterways in Poland within the European inland waterway system of international importance. Changes are possible to adapt routes to international standards as well as to increase the share of inland waterway transport. Currently, this indicator is only 0.4 in Poland. For this reason, public roads and railways are crowded in many places. However, part of the goods transported by trucks so far can be transferred to ships by trains. This will undoubtedly relieve rail and road transport. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the following question: What are the estimated costs of building and modernising Polish inland waterways, and are these investments financed by the European Union envisaged? What is the expected time of implementation of the project? Does the Ministry have estimates of the reduction in financial costs and emissions caused by the shift of parts of transport to inland waterways? Is the construction of the Silesian Canal connecting Odra to the Vistula? If so, what will be the exact course and expected time of implementation of the project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u80	Thank you very much. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this question should be asked by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, because the responsibility of the new Ministry is to prepare, modernise and build waterways. However, we work very closely with the Ministry, I know a little about these matters. ♪ I used to be ♪ e.g. co-author of certain concepts of the development of waterways, so that I will try to answer this question. Water roads were neglected In fact, since the 1980s, this neglect has been increasing all the time. In the 1990s, as everyone knows, there were also neglected railway lines, and the waterways were forgotten. Indeed, there are three theoretical international waterways, water routes through Poland: the Vistula road, from east to west, from Rotterdam to Belarus, as well as the Kaliningrad road. Currently, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, in cooperation with our Ministry - we have provided all the data - has prepared a programme for the development of waterways. This programme for the development of waterways will be presented to the Council of Ministers. It amounts to about 70 billion PLN, if I am not mistaken, I apologize if this information is inaccurate, inaccurate, because there were no details given when asking questions and I say it out of the question. It is planned there, among others. Odrzańska Waterway, is planned a water road on the Vistula with a channel connecting the Vistula to Bug, further east to Belarus and further east to Ukraine. The Danube - Odra, Odra - Elba and the Silesian Canal are also expected to connect the upper Vistula from Oświęcim to Gliwice Canal. As far as the route is concerned, this route has not yet been considered in detail. It was a phase of concept. The main problem with this channel will be the water supply of this channel. That's the main problem. The construction of such a channel can be compared to the construction of a highway. At the moment, the channels of the right width are being built, according to the class of the water road, i.e. about 60 meters long, sealed with asphaltetone, so that it looks very similar to the construction of the highway. I can still say that Poland is now joining the UN AGN Convention, the Convention on Waterways. Until now, Poland has not signed this convention. Therefore, it was not possible, among others. receive special resources for the development of waterways from the European Commission. These are special funds, but the condition for reaching for these funds is the inclusion of waterways in the AGN Convention, as well as in the TEN-T corridors. Nevertheless, I would like to say that at the moment there is about PLN 1 billion in the financial perspective for the development of waterways. These are among others. Renovation of Odrzańskie mucus, Oder regulations. This will, of course, continue and we will adapt... While the third class of the waterway was previously predicted, the fourth class of the waterway is still being referred to at the moment. The fourth class of the waterway is, you can say, the lowest class of the international waterway. They can be used for vessels with a capacity of about 1500.3000 t, i.e. about 30.60 containers. As far as transport-related waterways are concerned, only the fourth class of waterway is really the class that can meet transport conditions on a larger scale. As I said, a government document was created. It is currently being analysed and certainly the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping will present this document. I would like to emphasise once again: we are working together in this area, because a large proportion of the investments in the development of waterways are linked equally to flood-related investments, among other things. anti-drying. That's where we'll be the lead side. On the other hand, when building channels, of course, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping will carry out these investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u82	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mr Czesław Sobierajski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u83	The PO and PSL government changed the concept of building the Racibórz tank from wet to dry. However, only a wet tank, i.e. multifunctional, it can really ensure the construction of the Odrzańska Waterway along with the construction of the Odra - Danube Canal. So when will it be decided to return to the construction of a multi-purpose tank? When will this decision be made and the tank is completed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u84	Thank you. The additional question is also asked by Mr Marek Polak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u85	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask if the plan to irritate Polish rivers also includes the reconstruction of the upper Vistula from a kilometer of zero at Oświęcim to the level of Carriage in Krakow. I am asking because this would give, apart from the development of water tourism, the possibility of transporting coal to the power plant in Skawina and Kraków-Łęg, which is five times cheaper than the land road, and only one such transport replaces as many as 52 trucks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u86	Thank you very much. I ask once again for the answer of Minister Mariusz Gaida. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u87	Thank you very much. The Racibórz tank was actually designed as a wet tank. It's a pretty complicated case, a pretty complicated story. At the moment there is the construction of a dry tank as a dry polder, but we have decided that we are building primarily those elements that are common elements and for the wet tank, and for the dry tank. About 80% the elements are common. The wet tank, in turn, still needs to do the work in time... and, of course, make the locks and locks moving. We have already undertaken some project work in this area. This will, of course, be more expensive by about 700 million PLN, because there will be higher expenditures. However, the most difficult are procedural issues related to the conversion of this tank into a wet tank, as well as financing issues because at the moment it is financed by the World Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank and European funds and is registered as a dry tank. These are administrative decisions. And now a sudden change from dry tank to wet tank will stop financing. We have therefore reported that it will continue to be built as a dry tank, but already subject to its conversion into a wet tank. We're probably gonna need that extra money... We will not receive them from these financial institutions, but from other funds, perhaps from the state budget. We're keeping that in mind, and we're trying to get this tank in place as soon as possible, first in the dry tank area, and then turn it into a wet tank. That's the idea and the politics right now. As for the Upper Vistula Waterway - because that's what it's called - this Upper Vistula Waterway is expensive, but unfortunately we have observed for many years that there are no contracts between mines. I mean, the contracts are, but this coal is actually driven by rail, and if there were shippers who would be willing to transport cheaper on a waterway, they could be doing so by now. It's like a little bit of a market problem, because, on the other hand, if there were no orders for coal transport, the ship owners just pulled out. So that's more of an economic problem right now than [[♪ The bell ♪]] maintenance problem. If there are indeed declarations of carriage by the Vistula, we will immediately proceed to the full pavement of this route. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska and Mr Cezary Grabarczyk from the Civic Platform Club on the refusal of the Ministry of Justice to finance women's rights centres. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. Krystyna Skowrońska asks you as the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u89	Dear Marshal! Minister! By way of introduction: we were very surprised by the information that women's rights centres, including the Women's Rights Centre in Łódź, did not receive funds for the operation of the centres this year, which was included in the budget bill. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia: for therapy, helping and writing applications in criminal proceedings - in all centres. Centers cooperate with various foundations, conduct workshops, also for the police, on dealing with women experiencing violence, organize therapeutic activities for women who are hurt, organize childcare activities while the mother is in therapy. The foundations carry out various programmes, their activities have so far been financed by public funds, money from the Fund for Hurted Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. In 2015, many women received such assistance. It was specialist care, psychological care for women who were in a particularly difficult situation. Goods vouchers or housing payments were supported for those who had an extremely difficult family violence situation. In Łódź 700 ladies received support in 2015, including 500 cases in court, among others. relating to alimony or violence cases. The resources in those... weren't there. The question, therefore, is why the Ministry of Justice, despite the fact that it was included in the budget law, refused to grant funds, funds for [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the women's help centers? 90% The victims of domestic violence are women and children. A lot of people used this help. Where are these people gonna be able to get help now? And my last question is, don't you think that the Minister's anti-violence, especially this family, should be financed by the state? And that's how it's written in the bills. So the failure to grant funds is a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u90	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. I'll answer you one by one, according to the previously announced order. First question: Why did the Ministry of Justice refuse to grant funds to all aid centres for women in the country? High Izbo! The offer of the Foundation of the Centre for Women's Rights submitted in the framework of the ninth open competition to entrust the implementation of the tasks of the fund of assistance to victims of crime and post-penitentiary assistance to individuals not included in the public finance sector and not acting to achieve profit, including associations, foundations, organisations and institutions, by decision of the fund's manager, who is indeed the Minister of Justice, did not receive a special subsidy this year due to the insufficient number of points awarded. The score has been reduced mainly due to inaccuracies in the settlements of previous grants. Another reason known from previous explanations is the main assumption of the competition, in accordance with the EU guidelines, as comprehensively as possible to assist all victims of crime regardless of sex, type of crime or age. The competition placed a great deal of importance in fulfilling this criterion. The Ministry of Justice has not yet made public the main reason for not granting grants, i.e. inaccuracies in settlements, due to the welfare and concern for the image of the Foundation of the Centre for Women's Rights. High Izbo! It is not that for the first time a request from an organization is rejected, in this case the Centre for Women's Rights. This is an organization that has actually requested funds from the fund for several years. In 2013, it received these funds, and in 2014 it received these funds, but already in 2015. The Centre for Women's Rights Warsaw did not receive funds, the offer was rejected for formal reasons. Centre for Women's Rights in Gdańsk - the offer was also rejected for formal reasons. A grant was actually granted to only one unit within this network, namely the Centre for Women's Rights of Łódź, in the amount of PLN 554 084. In this competition, which we are talking about, i.e. for 2016, the Centre for Women's Rights Warsaw did not receive a grant. The offer received 173 points, the grant received offers above rated. Centre for Women's Rights Łódź - rejection of the offer due to failure to obtain the required minimum 50% the number of points to be achieved as a result of the evaluation of the tender. CPK Lodz received 148 points with a minimum of 150 points. The Centre for Women's Rights of Gdańsk was also not awarded a grant. Offer received 159 points, grants received offers above rated. Question two. Over 90% of domestic violence victims are women and children. Many of these people have benefited from the help of those centres where they will now be able to receive help. High Izbo! In the 2016 competition, grants were awarded to 26 non-governmental entities from 42 applicants. In the first place, 16 entities were identified, one in each voivodship, so that the victims of violence actually had this assistance provided in their area of residence. In the second part of the competition 10 offers were selected, listing the offers according to the number of points received, as recommended by the fund manager. The CPK made an offer for the war. Pomeranian, Mazowieckie and Łódź, as I already mentioned. In the war. Pomeranian aid will be provided by the Pomeranian therapy and legal centre INTERIOS, which received 172 points - CPK received 159. In the war. Łódź, which was mentioned here, recommended three organisations, i.e. Association of Unemployed and Unemployed All Together - In Corporate - 215 points, SUBVENIO Crisis Intervention Foundation - 209 and Polish Association of Pedagogians and Psychologists - 199 points. So that three organizations in the war. Łódź will provide this assistance. I do not know if this is the best looking voivodship in the country in this respect. The CPK offer did not get, as I said, up to 50% of the number of points available. For the war. mazowiecki, where the CPK also took off, was designated as the unit that was selected, the Institute of Psychology of Health of the Polish Psychological Society, which offered 207 points, and Caritas Diocese Siedlecka - 233 points. CPK scored 173 points. It is therefore not true that the grant of the Women's Rights Centre was refused on the basis of unprecised criteria. These criteria are very specific. Also, the claim that there are no places where women are injured is not authorised [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll get help. Point 3 - fast now. Does the Minister believe that anti-violence, especially family violence, should be financed by the State? Of course, it is, and that's what I'm talking about. Point 4: Does the Minister, however, provide for the granting of ministerial appropriations for the activities of women's rights centres? It's not possible for this year, because... [[Minister, we shared that question.]] Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u92	If the Minister could... We have a second question, if you don't mind, Minister. Okay? We will allow Mr Grabarczyk to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Last year, Poland ratified the anti-violence convention, the Convention against Family Violence. All those who face violence are addressed to this convention. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is also quite common in Poland. Women's rights centres have carried out a wide range of activities, providing assistance dedicated to them. It so happens that the Act ratifying the Convention was signed by President Bronisław Komorowski at the headquarters of the Warsaw Women's Rights Centre. The public has, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards this situation, such a picture: the Minister of Justice of the Government of Law and Justice refuses to grant grants to these specific organisations because there has been an act of signature, and to this day there is no answer as to why these offers have been rejected. Please answer the questions that have been raised in this debate in writing. I also ask you to answer the key question: Is this revenge for the act of signing the Act ratifying the Convention...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u94	Please, sir, we must...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u95	...at the Women's Rights Center in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u96	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that the search for a connection between the place where the anti-violence convention was signed or a certain ceremony that involved this act, and the decision regarding the fund... I don't see the connection. Moreover, I had no knowledge and I do not think that such knowledge exists in the Ministry of Justice, at least at decision level, that such a thing has happened. If the Member suggests that the Government of Law and Justice, in an act of political revenge, rejects the proposal with the exception of formal criteria, which were also known long before the Centre for Women's Rights, then how will the Member answer the question... Of course, I do not ask questions here, but in 2015. The Centre for Women's Rights in Warsaw also did not receive funding, and the Minister of Justice was not Minister of Law and Justice, decided on formal grounds. In this case, it was not formally rejected, but rejected because other organisations had submitted better projects. There is no connection - I can assure you, Commissioner, in particular, the Minister of Justice in the past - between these events there is no connection. These are completely different things. The anti-violence convention is ratified, it is in the legal order of the Republic of Poland, and in our view it is also properly implemented by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u98	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u99	Minister, we will ask for an answer from the Centre for Women's Rights, because these conclusions, as the media report, have not been answered, and therefore the treatment of the Centre is also a serious response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u100	To be honest, as far as methodology is concerned, I believe that all organisations have received answers, or at least this decision is an open decision, who has obtained, who has not obtained, for what reasons. If something has been neglected in this regard, I will check it out and, of course, the answer will be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The questions are asked by Ewa Malik, Szymon Giżyński, Dariusz Starzycki and Anna April from the Law and Justice Club. As the first question, Mrs Ewa Malik asks about the state of preparation for World Youth Days. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u102	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Less than two months have passed since the big event that will take place in our country, namely the World Youth Days. Both the Government Security Centre and the ecclesiastical site published documents relating to the state of the preparations. One of the problems indicated in the report is the state of preparation in the town of Brzegi near Wieliczka, where the meeting of young people with the Holy Father Francis is planned, so I would ask very much for the following information: how the preparation of the Holy Father's visit is progressing, whether the final schedule of the Holy Father's visit to Poland has been established, whether the funds have been secured and whether they are sufficient, what is their separation. Minister, in addition, at the last minute I received information about two specific problems which I also have to share. It's specific, but I'm gonna let you give it to me. Namely, on 28 July 2016 in Częstochowa there will be celebrations with the participation of the Holy Father, as we know, and there will be Mass and services, which will be held with the participation of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic of Poland. For Members, Senators and the most important people in the country, also for security reasons, a special platform combined with the Jasna Góra embankments is to be built. Paulini's fathers were to receive some PLN 0.5 million from the State for this purpose. Everything was reported and approved at meetings with the government party. To this day, Pauline's fathers have not received a penny, nor has anyone spoken to them. With their own resources, they build a platform for [[♪ The bell ♪]] National Assembly. Do paulin's fathers have a chance to get support for this investment? That's the first question. Two. On 28 June 2016 1.5 million people will arrive in Częstochowa. According to safety regulations, you will not be allowed to enter zone zero with your own drinking water. Turns out it's a serious problem. Pilgrims must receive water after entering zone zero, because they will be there for 6 and 8 hours. Until today, the government services have not determined how the water will be provided and who is to cover the costs associated with its purchase and distribution, according to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u104	...safety standards. When will this matter be settled? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u105	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. You will respond to Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Ministry of Interior. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to say immediately that I will not be able to answer some of these questions from this speaker for two reasons at this moment: firstly, some of them are very detailed, and secondly, they do not seem to belong to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, even though this is of course an important issue, but this is not our area, the question is for the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. But I'm going to give you some important information, I think. [[Minister, I'm sure we'll be sending this question to the other minister. Thank you very much.]] On the other hand, I want to answer a number of questions as much as I can, of course. First of all, I would like to assure you that issues related to the safety of the Holy Father, pilgrims and all those involved in and participating in the July celebrations, visitors, pilgrims, tourists are the absolute priority of the Ministry of Interior and Administration and the services under us in our current activities. This is the most important issue for us at this time - this and the NATO summit - beyond the current tasks that we do on a daily basis. The Polish government, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the security services face major challenges, and there is nothing to hide about these events. The event we are talking about, the World Youth Day, which is above all a unique religious celebration, we also consider as an opportunity, an opportunity to promote our safe country, its culture, history, tradition and beauty. In order to fully enjoy it, to deeply experience the World Youth Days and visit the Holy Father Francis, the Polish government, the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration and its subordinate services have been carrying out activities to ensure the smooth and secure course of the celebrations planned in July. I'm saying it's been a long time, but that doesn't mean it's been as long as it should have been, because we found it all in very poor condition, but now the work is very intense. These tasks shall be carried out within different levels of teams as well as through the day-to-day implementation of the statutory tasks of the various departments and the Ministry itself. He works intensively at the central level of the Interministerial Team for preparing the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland in 2016 and supporting the organization of the World Youth Days Kraków 2016, chaired by the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Minister Beata Kemp, as well as a government representative for preparing the World Youth Days of Kraków 2016 by Minister Paweł Majewski. As part of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, under my leadership in this case, there is also a team to ensure continuous coordination of services. The tasks placed before the MSWiA services shall be carried out in accordance with the agreed timetable. I assure you that this schedule is very rigorous, meticulously and rhythmically implemented. There was a question. During the meetings of the team, the next stages of the work undertaken by the service are summarised. The various services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have carried out all analyses, have already analysed the needs of personnel, necessary equipment and related costs, and the procedures and regulations in force, have identified the problems involved and have carried out a number at this stage - I would say: the majority, the vast majority - of the intentions arising from the needs and the plan adopted. There are still a few minor issues to be resolved - but of course everything is important here - requiring some refinement. The tasks of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration do not focus solely on the work of the team. Our services are reporting on the extent to which the tasks have been carried out, just now the Chief of Police, the deputy chief present here. He also informed me in government benches, at what stage the police are at - he is at a very good stage. We're having a working meeting and a meeting. Working groups are working with outstanding experts in particular fields, and there are a lot of these areas, they are extensive. I cannot provide too detailed information on the activities of the services in such a way, in open mode, in order to protect classified information. I can only inform you that all operations and sub-operations have already been planned in detail. The persons responsible for command have been appointed, appropriate personnel forces and necessary equipment have been allocated to the various operations and sub-operations that have to be carried out that have been planned. In connection with preparations for World Youth Day celebrations in the Ministry of Interior and Administration, a draft regulation of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration on the introduction of a temporary ban on the wearing of arms and their movement in a unloaded state was drawn up, as this is also an important safety element, and due to the need to ensure this safety during the World Youth Day, but also the NATO Summit held in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July. Therefore, the deadlines covered by this regulation will be linked both to the NATO Summit in Warsaw and to the World Youth Day in two voivodships: the Lesser Poland Voivodship and the Silesian Voivodeship. This regulation is at the end of the legislative process and will soon enter into force with July validity dates. A draft regulation has also been drawn up - this is also an important issue, it is worth [[♪ The bell ♪]] to know that - the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. It is also in the final phase. Your marshal, I'd say a little more, if I may.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u107	But literally just for a moment, because there's gonna be one more question. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: A little more, if you don't mind. I'll talk until you stop me, okay? It is a regulation on the temporary restoration of border control of persons crossing the national border constituting the internal border of the European Union. This solution will apply between 4 July and 2 August, and border control will be restored on roads, rail, maritime, river and air routes. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act on Special Solutions related to the organization of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 the Małopolska voivode was obliged to develop, in agreement with the organizer, i.e. the archdiocese of Krakow, a plan to ensure security and public order during the World Youth Days. The Małopolskie Voivodeship submitted such a plan by 15 May. At the moment, it is the subject of an analysis of the services. Today, among others. we have a meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, during which the services under us will inform about their assessment of matters, tasks, records of this plan, tasks resulting from this plan. We want to assess how prepared we are, in the light of what the Małopolska voivode has submitted under the law under Chapter 2 of the Act. I'm gonna ask the Minister because I've already given 1.5 more minutes... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yes, thank you very much, so... But maybe after an additional question it will be possible to complete it. Please, Mr Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In view of the constant confirmations of the representatives of the government, including the Silesian voivode of Mr Jarosław Wieczorek, that the government fully secures security costs and other costs, including medical expenses associated with the stay of Pope Francis in Czestochowa, you will share the Minister's conviction of the broad circles of Częstochowa's public opinion that the fact of the bombastic financial demands of President Matyaszczyk transferred with the help of Częstochowa MPs PO directly to the draft of the Seym law means that President Częstochowa Krzysztof Matyaszczczyk treats Częstochowa celebrations with the participation of Pope Francis as the beginning of his local election campaign? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u109	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not want to present these detailed financial threads now, we need to examine them thoroughly, especially since they are not all at the level of the government and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. We have planned the appropriate amounts of necessary expenditure for the preparation of these July events we are talking about, i.e. the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit, in terms of those tasks that belong to the government. There are still other issues related to what the voivods are going to do, and they also have some tasks and responsibilities here. I don't want to get into what's going on between them. Voivodeship and self-government happens on this line of demands, expectations, conclusions, etc. We will, of course, examine this, in cooperation with the voivodships and supervision of the voivodships, and present it in writing, because this is indeed a thread that needs clarification. I'd like to say that, too, and we'll go deeper into it. The amounts planned in this year's financial law are secured, as is said in the common language, by the needs that the services have, which they have reported, both in terms of organisation and the purchase of equipment, as well as the payment of additional... payment of salaries for additional hours of service staff. This is a matter we have settled about the NATO Summit not yet fully, about the World Youth Days completely. Whether or not the campaign - Mr President, I cannot relate to this because I do not know the case. Once again, when it comes to all these financial questions, I don't want to quote approximate numbers, from memory, even though I have them in my head, these main numbers, but we will answer that precisely. I just want to say, although that was not the question, it is important that representatives of other countries' diplomacy are interested in whether the World Youth Day will be safe, this problem. Tonight, exactly at noon, at hours. 12, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will hold a meeting with representatives of embassies of many countries interested in the arrival of their youth to Poland on the World Youth Day and we will inform you about the security issue. I want to assure you that everything is being done to ensure that it is safe during the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit - done in a professional way, in a way that results from the full commitment of all forces, all services, all responsible persons. And when there is a question about Częstochowa and e.g. The National Assembly, to reassure you, would like to remind you that we had an attempt to ensure security during an important event recently in Poznań, where the National Assembly was held, i.e. a joint meeting of the Sejm and the Senate attended by the Polish Episcopate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a lot of guests... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...and I think the preparation for the safety of this meeting was exemplary. They praised us for this, thank us, and service in particular, I thank them from this place, not only representatives of one side of the political scene, but all sides of the political scene, of which we are very pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u111	Thank you... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: I think that this will be the case at the NATO summit and in Częstochowa, and also, of course, at the World Youth Day in Małopolska at the end of July. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members Jan Kilian and Aleksander Mr Forczyński from the Law and Justice Club on the regulation of the problem of drug advertising. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In pharmacies in Poland, the main majority is as in the 1990s. Now the market has changed, expectations have changed, the environment has changed, and problems as they were unsolved are today. But the worst part is that the patients don't feel, they don't think about the pharmacy today, where you can expect help, or the pharmacist as a professional. The cost of education for pharmacists is PLN 6 billion. It's not anyone else but the pharmacists, the pharmacists are on duty free of charge, for which no one pays, and their cost is 130 million. The pharmacists contributed to the elimination of pathology such as a drug for a penny or a penny, which in turn cost 156 million. About 2 million patients go to pharmacies a day. It is not anyone other than the pharmacist who is the last and the right person to assess whether the patient is properly ordained, or whether the patient has correctly understood the doctor. So that this help can be made for pharmaceutical care it could exist, it must be taken care of the pharmacy, its economic condition, through equal market treatment in accordance with applicable law and even improve it. The law makes it clear that one percent of the market is held in a given voivodship as far as one economic operator is concerned. Today this 1% exceeds around 1.5 thousand in the country. pharmacies formally. And in reality? Monopolization thrives on the best. Many of the European Union's countries have introduced further solutions to this problem. For example, in Germany, one pharmacist can run one pharmacy plus four subsidiaries, in Finland - three subsidiaries, in Italy - only one pharmacy, so in France, Hungary - up to four pharmacys. What about us? Does the Ministry consider regulating the problem of drug advertising? Will it decide to enforce the law already in force in this area, which explicitly refers to the prohibition of advertising of pharmacies? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Second question. Is work being done to clarify the so-called. pharmacies geography? This is the distance between pharmacies that regulate the pharmacies market, leading to the strengthening of smaller businesses that are recently closed down, i.e. Replaced by pharmacies networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u113	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Krzysztof Łanda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u114	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we are still working on changes in pharmaceutical law, but let me tell you more: a team has also been set up to draft a law on the profession of pharmacist. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some time, because according to the work plans at the Ministry of Health, as regards the preparation of the draft amendments to the Refund Act, we have until the end of June, while the plan was to prepare by the end of August a major draft amendment to the Pharmaceutical Law Act. The work on this second law, which I mentioned, may be delayed because of the extension of the procedure for the appointment of the chief pharmaceutical inspector, but I do not think that it will delay more than a month; nevertheless, we will try to meet this deadline, it is the end of August. Of course, we foresee quite profound changes that will allow for better implementation of those provisions that are already in the law, i.e. anti-concentration records e.g. Or a ban on advertising. Of course, these problems are still being discussed with the Supreme Pharmacy Council, we are in constant contact with them, you can say, although we listen to the opposite voices of course, i.e. We meet and talk also to representatives of the pharmacies network. However, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Minister of Health and the changes we are proposing is to achieve a healthy balance in the pharmacies market. Indeed, there is an increasing domination of the network at the moment. We want to stop this process. About... Yes, we have ideas for pharmaceutical care in Poland, which, I think, will translate into the condition of pharmacies, especially those family pharmacies, because we want pharmaceutical care to be assigned to pharmacists, not to pharmacy, and to pharmacists. We are also thinking about it, there are such proposals and we are wondering whether to introduce a geographical criterion, but it is not treated as a case at the moment. But yes, we want the pharmacy to be for the pharmacist, i.e. to 51% We also want to reduce the number of pharmacies that a pharmacist can own or in which he can have shares. [[That's socialism.]] Additional things that we want to introduce, this is a limitation on non-ape turnover, but this is not just a limitation, we also want to introduce a new assortment. We're thinking that a lot of drugs... They are for immediate use and not for chronic use, so we want these packages just to be smaller. As far as pharmaceutical care is concerned, I have already mentioned that this will also improve the condition of pharmacies. We have some ideas here. We also use patterns that operate in other countries. On the other hand, as far as advertising is concerned, a few months ago we tried to fight a few ads that simply contained false content that misled customers. Of course, we managed to win one of these battles, and you've noticed for sure that the advertising about stopping the smoker's cough has disappeared from the media. But, ladies and gentlemen, this case has shown us that although theoretically the chief pharmaceutical inspector, but also the other offices involved, in theory they have such or other legal tools, they cannot be used effectively, because it's kind of like catching a bunny, right? Even if the GIF bans a given series of ads, the advertising is minimally changed and another edition is coming again. Of course, at this point we want to give one of the authorities a very strong tool for prosecuting false information in advertising, which is to say that I am denouncing what is shown in the media: we do not want to ban advertising of all kinds of products, but, ladies and gentlemen, we definitely want to fight against false information in these advertisements. There was an organized meeting of GIF, GIS, URPL, UOKiK, also participating in these works of AOTM, and are in the process of preparing appropriate legal tools which, I hope, this time effectively block false content in the media, in advertisements that concern various kinds of products used in medicine. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking of what you said about advertising drugs, I'd like to say that we think there should be a total ban on advertising. What do you think, Minister? Speaking of pharmaceutical drugstores, I'm going to point out that we also believe that the pharmacist should only own the pharmacy. [[100%.]] These issues are, not only the pharmacists, but also the ordinary citizens who feel the lack of adequate pharmaceutical care, which could actually function in smaller family pharmacys, and which is clearly lacking in networks that are primarily profit-oriented at the expense of patients' health. So, both the first and the second issues I've been talking about decide profit rather than health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u117	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, the role of the Minister of Health is to care for patients and we must balance the various values that are in some contradiction with each other. There can be no discrimination here, there can be no breach of EU law. Therefore, the ban on advertising certain medical devices, parapharmaceuticals cannot be introduced, would be contrary to EU law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also not possible to prohibit advertising of medicinal products or medicines addressed to medical professionals, so this will, of course, be maintained. In any case, both advertising that is directed to professionals and advertising that is generally available in the media must comply with the principles of evidence-based medicine, i.e. there must be information that is reliable and based on scientific evidence. They must not mislead consumers. It cannot be that someone in an apron who suggests that this is a doctor, and that someone has never been a doctor of course and is not, convinces users that some parapharmaceutical has proven miraculous effectiveness, because it is simply misleading people. This will be addressed, but we cannot, on the other hand, exaggerate and we cannot go beyond existing EU law. On the other hand, as I said, a pharmacy only and exclusively for the pharmacist, it seems, would also be a step too far. I think it's 51%. for pharmacists and reducing the number of pharmacies or pharmacies held to a certain number negotiated in the public consultation are sufficient and appropriate tools that the public expects to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u119	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u120	Excuse me, Minister, but if I may, I will. However, in many European countries, there is this option of pharmacy only for pharmacists. There is no violation of European law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u121	It is true, but at the moment the resort is in the position that there should be 51% for the pharmacist, thus simplifying. This is also in line with the position of the Supreme Pharmacy Council, but of course we will also consider other proposals. I think that the Member will also submit a proposal for 100% for the pharmacist and he will be subject to a normal decision-making process. [[Minister, one word...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u122	But we're done with that question. We're giving you a chance to ask your next question. Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech and Mr Tomasz Latos of the Law and Justice Club on the implementation of the piloting of the environmental psychiatry programme under the National Mental Health Programme, to the Minister of Health. The first question is asked by Mrs Anna Czech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are after the first edition of the National Mental Health Programme for the years 2011 and 2015. However, the environmental model of psychiatric care could not be introduced during this edition. At the moment, psychiatric care is carried out by about 1200 under-integrated or non-integrated entities. The replacement of hospital treatment with other forms is not supported at all, and sometimes even punished. In other countries, the environmental psychiatric care model has long ceased to be an experiment; it is a widely accepted and implemented way of protecting mental health, implemented in a variety of ways, according to national conditions and methods. However, since the introduction of the Law on the Protection of Mental Health, i.e. since 1994, there have been no significant actions by successive governments affecting the quality of psychiatric treatment, even this quality of treatment. psychiatric declines in relation to the average level of quality of other benefits, in other specialties due, of course, to inadequate funding, as well as to the lack of reforms. The Minister of Health has set up a team to implement the piloting of the environmental psychiatry programme. It was April 19th this year. The question is: Has this team reached conclusions, at least preliminary, or have you approved these proposals? Next question: Does the planned piloting have a chance [[♪ The bell ♪]] Be initiated, start this year? How long does it take to prepare the relevant amendments to the laws and regulations? And is there a specific plan for the number of centres that will be involved in piloting? Will they be able to participate in any wishing or limitations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u124	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Jarosław Pinkas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the first actions of the new management of the health department was leaning over the problems of Polish psychiatry. These are our weakest patients. These are patients we didn't care about, we don't care, and this situation needs to be radically changed. Psychiatry in the world looks completely different. It is a psychiatry close to home, it is a psychiatry based on the help of the local community, it is a psychiatry based on domestic help, not hospital treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, this psychiatry is called environmental psychiatry. At the moment, we need to catch up rapidly and introduce it to Poland. The psychiatrist's community has started working very closely with us, even though it is a highly contagious environment, because there are different reasons for those who work in clinical hospitals, large hospitals, such psychiatric combinations, and those who work in small branches, especially in county hospitals. Environmental consensus is very difficult to reach. But I must boast that after two months of very intense work, we have come to such an environmental consensus and we know that what we are going to introduce will not be tested. At least that's what we hope. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is a revolutionary project, so we decided to introduce it in great peace - first piloting and then spreading the idea across Poland. Pilotage will be conducted around 25 places in Poland. We've collected applications from centers that would like this piloting to take place on their territory. This has been analysed by the National Health Fund, because we want to know that these measures are able to cope with this task. At the moment we have a working group composed of the most outstanding Polish psychiatrists, but also representatives of the National Health Fund, analyzing where we can enter this pilotage. This is, of course, a question of allocating the right financial resources for this. The band's first meeting took place on 12 May. There'll be another one next week. And I have the impression that in the second half of the year we will be able to talk about implementation in at least a few places of this piloting. It won't be long. We think that after the first half of the year we should already have some relevant data. I think we will be able to draw conclusions on how to implement this piloting for the whole country. So it seems that the project is very advanced. There will be no leaving environmental psychiatry in Poland. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Thomas Latos to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask you about possible cooperation, especially now, at the stage of this programme, with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. How does it look like you're going to carry out this project together, because I believe that this requires coordination and with this department, given the specifics of this project?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u128	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It's a very important question. We're moving away from silo politics. I can't imagine it wouldn't be that kind of project. implemented jointly with a very important ministry, which is the Ministry of the Family. Of course, the project was consulted. Of course, we have suggestions for what we should change in it. But also very important is that in addition to this project we also have something that I think will change Polish reality, namely we will implement a national health program. I would like to say to you that the head of the Public Health Council is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Family, which has an important impact on the fact that our actions are going paraplegically and are not divergent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the effects of the government infertility program by means of in vitro fertilisation, changes in the oncology package concerning, among others, will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm. abolition in the provisions of the act of financing oncology without a limit and drastic reduction in the valuation of cardiological benefits requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bad streak of the Minister of Health has been going on for weeks. It had to be completely compromised, it had to be in-uterine and compromising inserts, the Minister of Health talking about animal bioprotes and a conscience clause for physiotherapists, so that you would not do any further harm to the great environment of physiotherapists in Poland. Surely he is not satisfied with the actions of the Minister of Health, the environment of people struggling with infertility. Tough, tough decision: end of program in vitro, because ideology wins. The programme was programmed until 2019. The Minister of Health's decision was interrupted. That's over $4.5,000. Born children. I'm sure the cancer patients are also thrilled. The draft amendment to the law that you have presented, which is to remove from the law the provisions guaranteeing unlimited financing of oncology, will certainly make the oncology patients happy. I'm sure you're also praised by the cardiological patients - the drastic reductions in the valuation of the cardiological benefits you're implementing. And finally, the physiotherapists who had to go out on the streets so that you would not destroy their professional achievements and opportunities for professional development. But there are also environments that really are of you, and especially of Minister Radziwiłł, happy. There are environments. This is the undoubted success of the Minister. To be precise and not political, I'll quote. Practical Medicine: The medical authority may feel safe as long as I am on Honeymoon," said the medical minister of health at the convention. I continue to quote: a benevolent moan has spread around the room. The benevolent murmur, for both in the hall and in the crouches it was possible to feel that Radziwiłł was his own. So, yes, the medical board can definitely feel good as long as you're on Honeymoon. In vitro - interrupted, unlimited oncology - interrupted, but 16 million for the medical self-government was found. There is another environment that is certainly satisfied with the government of the Minister. Namely, it is an environment of family doctors. Besides, the Minister comes from this environment. Abolish any motivation to carry out diagnostic tests - such decisions were taken by the Minister of Health - and increase rates for all family doctors, whether or not they are carrying out tests. I'm sure these environments are happy. In the oncology package that you're really destroying right now, you're devastated, you're proposing to abolish the statutory lack of financial limits in oncology. You are proposing to abolish the most important things they have for oncology patients, fighting cancer, namely the consilium. You go hand in hand with those who don't want patients to be comprehensively supplied by a few doctors who are professionally involved in cancer, and you send patients to queues to visit each of these doctors every day. After all, you are putting up with the only tool for controlling family doctors in terms of cancer detection. That's another bow in that direction. You take off the indicator - 1 to 15 - the recognition of cancer diseases. 1 to 15. The Minister of Health knows perfectly well that in Europe and the world such an indicator varies between 1 in 5 and 1 in 6 accurate diagnosiss. You've eliminated the in vitro program. You don't allow people to fight their infertility professionally. It is not important to you that more than 4.5 thousand were born in Poland. healthy children. That's not good enough. As in the case of full compromise with physiotherapists, you are also discredited here, because even the website on which the results of this program were given, the number of children who were born from the program has been eliminated. This information cannot be consulted because even the information pricks the Minister of Health. Finally, the valuation of cardiological benefits. Here too I would like to rely on a quote, this time with Minister Łanda. Minister Łanda at MedExpress.pl - 13 May 2016 - said the following words. The article has the title of Cuts in Cardiology is only the beginning. I quote Minister Landa. The journalist asks: How much will the Ministry save with cuts in cardiology? Minister Łanda answers: It will save about 1 billion, but it is not the end of work. So, Minister, you save on in vitro, you save on cardiology, you save on cancer. But there's extra money for the medical board and there's extra money to finance without any restrictions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the highest stake, all the family doctors, the minister's friends. To conclude, I will repeat the words from which I began my speech. Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł: The medical authorities may feel safe as long as I am on Honeymoon. And those are the only real words. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u132	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Jarosław Pinkas. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps I will start by referring to Mr Arłukowicz's very emotional words. Who's supposed to feel safe? It is safe, sir, for our patients to feel well because they are to have motivated, uncontested doctor changes. They're supposed to have doctors who have full professional authority, have the opportunity to pursue their profession, have time not for bureaucracy, just for their patient and for proper procedures at the right time, without believing that they're bound by bureaucracy, that they're bound by something that's irrational, something that doesn't make any profit for the patient. As long as Minister Radziwiłł and the members of his management are on the street. Honeymoon, it's the most important patients for us. And that's what we lean over them, Minister. [[Is that why 16 million for the government?]] 16 million for the local government, Minister, these are the amounts that are outstanding. This is what is a certain act of honor, because you know perfectly well that records must be kept, that the medical chambers have their orders from the government and that the government must be a credible government. Nothing happened that would have caused Minister Radziwiłł to have any kind of soul-expression. He did what he had to do. [[He gave the money to the doctors.]] [[Don't interrupt.]] Besides, I would like to tell you that he has transferred a significantly smaller amount because it has been negotiated, ladies and gentlemen, such conditions as you would never be able to negotiate. [[Because I cared about patients, not doctors.]] [[Don't interrupt.]] We owed several dozen million PLN to the medical chambers. There was an important consensus, a compromise, and no one would recover the Ministry of Health, which, of course, was hanging in the air. But I think it's worth going to the most important thing, the two questions you've asked. Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The oncology package was implemented on the basis of a complete lack of consensus. The Minister had a vision of what it should look like. Yeah, it was a vision, but it wasn't knowledge. To do something to make patients feel this effect, there must be an absolute social consensus between all those involved in the diagnostic and therapeutic process, from family doctors to oncologists to all those involved in oncology. That's not the consensus. At the outset, the opposition did not make significant conclusions that something had to be changed, that it was not right to introduce such a par force law, but the environment itself. And now, of course, there's a question. Are the effects so excellent that they cannot be improved? We're not completely devastated by your idea, but we're leaning on what the environment has said. [[Doctors.]] [[Please...]] Unfortunately, Minister, Minister Arłukowicz is not an oncologist who is actively involved in the diagnostic and therapeutic process. I'm sorry to say this, but for a very long time, you've been ripped out of your medical context, your doctor's apron has been hanging on a stake for a long time, and I also think... [[That's a little out of line.]] I also think that it is worth consulting with your environment. [[Where's Minister Radziwill's apron?]] Minister Radziwill's apron...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u134	Please don't disturb me. Mr Nitras, do not disturb me. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: I mean, many questions were ad personam, so you should also answer ad personam. [[Mr. Marshal, please respond.]] It'll be ad substance then. Ladies and gentlemen, repeal of the paragraph. Article 2 136 in the draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare aims to harmonise the provisions in such a way as to enable the so-called. unlimited settlement in all coverage of benefits, including oncology, has been implemented at the same level of legislation, i.e. by order of the President of the National Health Fund. Diagnosis and oncology benefits provided on the basis of an oncology diagnosis card and settled up to now on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2, can be unlimitedly accounted for in the way this happens e.g. in the case of births or neonatological care benefits. [[But you're shutting down the NFZ.]] These benefits shall be accounted for in accordance with the rules laid down in Article. 16 orders from the President of the National Health Fund. It should be made clear, sir, that the Ministry of Health does not plan to introduce limits for oncology benefits provided on the basis of a diagnostic and oncology treatment card. [[But you're throwing it out of the bill.]] [[Quiet.]] Member, lean on the regulations and what we want to introduce. [[The bill is a higher act.]] I assure you that the Ministry of Health is not planning - and I repeat this for the third time - the introduction of limits for oncological benefits provided on the basis of a diagnostic and oncological treatment card. [[And that's why you're throwing it off the bill.]] [[Calm down. Mr. Marshal, really...]] Mr. President, you are disturbing... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: What are the substantive reasons for abandoning the separation of multidisciplinary therapy teams? That's your question, too. Mr. Marshal, the proposed change is due to insufficient flexibility in the regulation of a multidisciplinary therapeutic team planning and coordinating the treatment process, notified by the expert community and providers of guaranteed oncology treatments. [[What about the patients?]] In addition, it should be noted that information coming from healthcare providers shows that it was fiction in a large part of the consilies. That's the opinion of the environment. [[Environment.]] Designed solutions assume a transition from mandatory separation of multidisciplinary therapeutic teams to support, promote the actual organization of consilies. [[But patients or the environment?]] We're moving away from fiction for real patient treatment planning. [[Mr. Marshal, this is an extremely outrageous behaviour of Members of the Civic Platform.]] That is true, and I am about to initiate a procedure which will lead to the punishment of Members if you continue to interfere. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's shutting your mouth.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'd like to continue. Of course. Punishments are high. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, another answer. The bill assumes that the cancer recognition rate, which was valid for primary health care doctors, will be abandoned. What are the reasons for eliminating the above-mentioned indicator? Ladies and gentlemen! Experience from the over-the-year oncology package shows that the introduction of cancer recognition rates for primary healthcare professionals was a sign of overregulation. Concerns about patients being too hasty in issuing diagnostic and oncological treatment cards were not justified. Only three primary healthcare professionals across the country met the necessary conditions to calculate this indicator. And in fact, there's only one case you could say that you're going to penallize. It's one in 24,000. primary care doctors who have contracts with the National Health Fund. In view of the above, as well as the possible concerns of primary practitioners regarding the calculation of cancer recognition rates, the Minister of Health has decided not to do so. Why overregulation? Why would you really be absurd? Our doctors have a sense of mission, Minister. [[Mission...]] You don't have to write everything down. I have a deep conviction that no patient, because of this overregulation, has felt wronged, rejected, has not been issued a card in excess or that this has not happened because the doctor has not been taught. I believe in Polish doctors, Minister, as 38 million Poles believe in them, who receive 40 million benefits under POZ, 130 million benefits under outpatient specialist care and for which 6 million hospitalizations are settled once a year by the National Health Fund. [[Voice from the room: Inverse. 140 within the scope of POZ.]] Yes, 140 - under POZ, 80 - under outpatient care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] There's only one minute left, but maybe after... [[But he wasn't mentioned.]] [[What do you mean he wasn't mentioned? Even his apron was replaced.]] [[That's where it hangs.]] Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u135	Mr. Marshal, I will not argue with the Minister, I just want to draw attention to one thing. In my speech, I was just talking about patients all the time, and the Minister was talking about the environment all the time. The difference between me and Minister Radziwill is that. The most difficult decision that the Minister of Health always has to make when starting his mission is whether he wants to be a representative of the medical community in the government, whether he wants to be a representative of the government and patients in the medical environment. It was clear to me that I am a representative of the government and patients in the medical community, and the Minister is a representative of the medical community in the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u136	Thank you very much. Further response - Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have very little time, so I will start with that, please, if the costs of stents have fallen in the last 10 years from 12,000. up to PLN 1500, it's nobody He won't tell me it doesn't require correction. Ladies and gentlemen, the tariff agency has been working on cost analysis also in cardiology, but also in other areas since 2015. These proposals, which are currently suspended on the website, are subject to public consultation and will then be subject to consultations by the tariff board. They are not yet final, but certainly the savings that are made in this respect will be spent in other areas. Let me remind you that in December we published tariff increases in long-term care, palliative care, environmental care, psychiatric care, we are planning a raise in the case of conservative cardiology to shorten the line to cardiologists, and that is where the money will be spent. On the other hand, Mr President, I will say this delicately, your quotations and statements here, including those concerning me, are at least inaccurate and incomplete. This is the only way I'm gonna put this delicately by respect for this House. [[At your disposal.]] Now, back to the topic that you raised a few days ago: If I signed the exit from the Watch Health Care Foundation, from the board of directors on 19 November, you know very well that the KRS publishes this lately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You also quoted the 2013 Watch Health Care Foundation's cost figures, saying they were from the previous year. I'm gonna say it's not accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u138	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that there are 28 Members of Parliament who have come to the debate. I'm closing the call list. I'm setting the time for one minute. [[Two minutes.]] Two minutes. [[There's always two minutes. There's two minutes in the rule book.]] There you go, two minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Member who made the introduction to this point, whose name I will not mention, in order not to give him the opportunity to correct, creates actually a virtual reality. [[You didn't make it because you're already talking about him.]] After all, the Minister said he wouldn't, there's no unlimited oncology. If we're talking about changes in the valuation of medical procedures, there's no such project in the Sejm either. There is something in the reflections, in consultation with the environment, something will be changed one way, somewhere else it will probably be added. In fact, this discussion is absolutely out of place and premature at the moment. But you have to admit, that question also has one value. Here, however, the opposition has done something useful. This allows us to talk about irregularities. Once again, we can talk about irregularities, for example. in the oncology package. Yeah, 'cause the oncology package, ladies and gentlemen, is losing hospitals. [[But the benefits of the patients.]] I have even recently been to a social council meeting, which I am a member of, and it turns out that there for the benefit of patients, Mr President, is doing everything possible to issue this DiLO card as at the latest, because there are various types of settlement problems, there are problems just for patients. Often absurdly, the need to do an earlier histopathological examination or consultation, sorry, consilium, causes procedures and even surgery to be delayed. That is why this package is one, unfortunately, I am sorry to say this to you, but it is only because, ladies and gentlemen, you did not want to listen to oncologists. Professor Jass, who at first supported [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your efforts, he said in the autumn before the package came into force: I ask the committee, I ask the High House not to implement this package... [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u140	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u141	...because only 4% of our proposals and arrangements the Ministry of Health took into the package. Those are the facts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u142	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u143	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to raise the issue of nurses here first and foremost. Minister Radziwiłł in 2013 at the Economic Forum in Krynica, then as vice-president of the General Medical Council, indicated that in countries where care is coordinated, this does not arouse the enthusiasm of doctors. In the United Kingdom, this has been abandoned, and in Germany we are already thinking seriously about quitting, the same in the United States. You are constantly referring to other countries depending on what the topic of health care is about, and we are just starting to get into this idea. The development of the budget system entrusted, i.e. fundholding, as well as coordinated care, is nothing more than entrusting POZ doctors with full care money. According to the Ministry, only doctors are supposed to have a patent on the wisdom of spending this money. At the same time, whether or not the Ministry of Health takes into account the fact that coordinated care is also administrative, because it is easy to talk about coordinated care only in the context of medical professions, but also administrative activities, which also need to be allocated finance within this care. But going back to fundholding, I'd like to ask the nursing community, well, the General Medical Chamber and the Nursing Chamber, the nursing unions. Will they passively observe how the medical community is becoming more and more independent of the profession of nurses and midwives? And yet the Minister continues to talk about the fact that excessive regulation and absurdity in health care should be removed. I think it is. However, doesn't the National Health Fund go further into the new regulations - actually there is no week for projects to not appear on pages - e.g. What about the requirements? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Recently, for example, an additional score for working with AOTmiT, which means whoever is polite, has additional points. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u144	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to speak on the reduction in the valuation of cardiological benefits. The reduced valuation of these benefits brings, according to the press, a proposal to cut by more than PLN 1 billion in terms of cardiological benefits. The Minister claims that this money will be relocated in other areas that require funding and, for example, the fact that some elements in connection with technological developments and in connection with the mass of technology are cheaper, so that the valuation of benefits can be reduced, as the costs of scale and technology are increasingly lower. I understand that as costs are getting lower, this technology is also getting older, new technologies are coming in, which are better, which are more expensive, and we should not reduce the valuation of benefits, but introduce better technologies that are adequate to the level of funding that we have established. At the same time, the Minister announces cuts of 1 billion in cardiology and at the same time announces that certain procedures, if the patient wants something of better quality, are to be co-financed by the patient. There are examples of lenses and various medical elements where the patient, if he does not agree to the elements produced in China or India, will want to have elements produced in the Western countries, he will have to pay out of his own pocket, because it will be too high a quality, it will be too high a standard for the NFZ. So my question is this: Are these cuts of 1 billion also such that our patients will have to - I'm sorry for colloquialism - walk on Chinese-Indian components [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it because we're going to cut that 1 billion, or is it going to be saved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u146	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Your concern for patients could be regarded as appealing, if not for the fact that this eight-year-old tail that is behind you contradicts that. The oncology package strangles Polish oncology - these words were uttered well over a year ago, and it was by people whose state, ruling and creating such an imperfect creation, which is the oncology package, you should listen, because they were behind this statement professors, representatives of scientific associations, national oncology consultants, oncology radiology and others. You didn't listen to their voices. You're accusing the current health resort that represents the government, but it works for patients, it doesn't work. And that's a mistake, because after your actions, judge them. Already what they have proposed, by increasing the budget for this year's money, is that they have eliminated the queues for POZ doctors in January, it contradicts that. I would also like to ask the Minister if you do not believe, Minister, that it was wrong not to include in the oncology palliative treatment package, especially when we find out from the audit carried out by Minister Radziwiłłł that 59 million PLN was not used in oncology. You have not allocated PLN 59 million to the treatment of those most ill, and you are accusing the current representatives of the Ministry of Health of malpractice. Why didn't you secure those sickest people? Why didn't you put palliative medicine in the oncology package? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Answer me if you think that not including palliative medicine in the oncology package was a mistake. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u148	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland, obstetrics are going in the wrong direction. Instead of raising the prestige of midwives, as is the case in other countries, they are degraded to subcontractors of a medical body. Currently, the profession of midwife is an independent and independent profession. They can open their own practices and sign contracts with the National Health Fund themselves. These solutions guarantee independence and independence in the provision of health services to pregnant persons and newborns. Each midwife who decides to open her own practice knows exactly how important the highest quality of services is, which is a guarantee of living in the medical market. Now the Minister introduces financing rules that give hospitals and medical staff free of charge on the distribution of funds at their discretion. It's the hospital and the doctor will decide what they'll get again. Nurses and midwives have been fighting for years for decent wages for their hard work, and the new solutions proposed by the Minister not only degrade them professionally but raise great concerns about their salary. You can't agree to that. It's a clear attempt on their professional independence. The business activities carried out by midwives will be closed. However, for the Minister, as he said, this is the last argument he intends to make. The worst part is the fact that so-called. Pregnant care narrows the choice of patients only to those specialists and midwives offered by the consortium. The right of freedom of economic activity and free choice of the patient as to the person leading the pregnancy, prenatal education as to the place of birth or patronage visits disappears. Hospitals and POZ facilities will want to repair their budgets [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the expense of independent practices and professional independence of nurses and midwives. We need to think about this, Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u150	Thank you very much. Ms Anna Czech, the Law and Justice Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification has proposed a reduction in the tariffization of invasive cardiology, which has been very well valued for years. This cardiology is also run by public hospitals. Thanks to its high valuation they may finance other ranges of benefits that have been undervalued for years, underfunded and therefore patients are simply unwanted by many individuals. Such ranges are interna, trauma orthopedics, psychiatry and other conservatives. Can the Minister ensure that the funds obtained from the area of cardiology will be transferred to those benefits that have long been underfunded? Still on the oncology package. He needs to be corrected. He was introduced too quickly, didn't count on consultations, and the troubles that individuals who conduct oncology are caused by the fact that POZ doctors don't write DiLO cards. They do not write them because it is extremely time-consuming to fill in these cards. Yes, absolutely. I'll give you an example from one hospital. For about 800 cancer patients only 65 were accounted for because there were DiLO cards written by POZ doctors. The second point is that there are too strict rules for the accounting of ill-diagnosed doctors. That's why they were afraid to fill out the cards. That's why it just needs to be improved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[So they don't have to be afraid anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u152	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. What have cardiologists and cardiologists done to you that you want to destroy Polish cardiology, which for 10 years has built its position as one of the best in Europe, which has caused today a Polish patient with acute coronary syndrome to be treated according to the highest European standards? Many European countries are jealous of this type of action, and today you are trying to destroy it - to destroy what was a great hope of Polish patients with heart disease. You make the same moves in relation to the oncology package. It was another hope of oncology patients that, as in the process of cardiology... [[They let you fool them.]] ...will be able to do so that every patient will have access. Today's limitation, the return to limiting oncology benefits is really an assassination of a Polish patient. [[There won't be any limits. That's what the minister said.]] For a few months now the Parliamentary Panel has been in place. Oncology. We're meeting with the medical community, with patients, talking about colon cancer, talking about lung cancer. The Minister never came to the meeting to listen to the medical community and patients. And you're talking about money. Since this year, the National Cancer Prevention Programme contains PLN 250 million for prevention, for health-promoting programmes. It's mid-May, Minister, no tendering procedures have been initiated with the announcement of competitions for this type of preventive task. When is this supposed to be done? 250 million PLN is waiting for competitions for the benefit of patients who could benefit from prevention, with preventive benefits. I look forward to your reply and invite the Minister to the Parliamentary Group meetings. Oncology. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u154	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochar, the Law and Justice Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 1 January 2015 was introduced so-called. oncology package. The objectives of the package and the introduction of specific measures in the oncology package were to improve the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients. The package included among others: DiLO card, so-called A green card. Your doctor has the right to issue you a rapid diagnosis card for oncology treatment only if you are diagnosed with cancer and not, like your family doctor, if you suspect a disease. In practice, this causes specialists to send patients to family doctors to issue cards to them. The DEA doctors don't issue DiLO cards. Minister, my question is: Is it true that after the package entered into force, the waiting time for a visit to POZ doctors was prolonged, which was not a problem before... [[Oh, talking...]] ...just because of the DiLO cards? Is it true that according to the data provided in the package, the time of 9 weeks for the diagnosis of the patient is in fact between 21 and 24 weeks? Minister! What changes are planned by the Ministry of Health regarding the DiLO card and home hospice services for palliative patients? Is it true that for the first time in history oncology has fallen into debt because of budget cuts in oncology, which is related to the introduction of the DiLO card, the green card? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Talk about patients, not hospitals.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u156	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u157	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I would like to address Minister Radziwiłł in person today, but there is no such possibility, as I see it. I fear that the absence of Minister Radziwiłł is not a coincidence, it is an expression of this distinctive elegance... [[He's not here because he's in a meeting.]] Don't disturb me. ...and the kindness shown today to us Members, and on a daily basis, e.g. the environment of nurses and midwives. I would like to ask the Minister why you are undermining one of the foundations of the Polish health system, which is the professional independence of nurses and midwives. By the way, you're undermining the principle of freedom of establishment, I'm sorry, the economics of this group. I don't understand why you're trying to get the nurses and midwives to be independent. These women have worked for years to build their own profession of prestige. For years, Minister. It was a difficult and long process. The so-called project. In your opinion, the coordinated care provided by you assumes that nurses and midwives will be partners of doctors and hospitals in such consortia, but the funding rules do not leave any illusions about who will benefit from it. Ministers, doctors, you will bring nurses and midwives into the role of serfs. That's what happened, Minister. [[No, that's what happened during your reign.]] Have you seen... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] Please don't disturb me. Have you seen, Mr Latos, how the salaries of nurses and midwives have increased, e.g. in hospitals, where there were no contract nurses, and how did doctors' salaries grow at that time? [[That's what happened during your reign.]] Your plans degrade the professional position of nurses and midwives, cut down on the possibilities of their companies. [[But this is a lie.]] The embarrassing thing is that by pushing your ideas, you're trying to limit the representation of nurses and midwives as a team of opinionists to change the law on POZ. [[Scandal!]] [[That's insolence.]] There are fears among nurses that POZ is for starters that other nurses, those working in hospitals, contract, are your next target. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The changes you've proposed are chaos. You can't count on the support of the Platform if you're going in this direction, because it's a direction that's harmful to Polish health care.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u158	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u159	Finally, Minister, I address Minister Pinkas...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u161	Gentlemen, unfortunately, you are doctors' ministers. You forgot... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...about the patients, and you forgot the nurses. Mr Marshal, Mr Latos has extended his time by 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u162	I've extended you. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The new cancer treatment system, called the oncology package, was designed, among others. the abolition of limits on the financing of oncology benefits. Experience has shown that the oncology package does not serve the patient or the doctor or hospital. It primarily serves the National Health Fund. The proposed system is not adapted to medical practice and to the different situations in which the patient may find himself, e.g. If he has a heart condition or an accident. Then it falls off the rapid diagnostic path, has to wait in another queue. The Provider loses money because he cannot meet the deadlines in which all the tests can be carried out. Minister, I therefore have a question: How did the oncology package affect the financial situation of county hospitals, oncology, oncology and oncology clinics? And Minister, former Minister of Health, you had a chance to appreciate the nurses and midwives you're fighting for. You've demoted this profession. You! [[Great. He had a chance. He gave you the baton.]] You gave everyone raises, all your friends, but not nurses and midwives. And as for the home liner, Minister, if it keeps the physiotherapists calm, then I'm just happy. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Well done, Member, very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u164	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Silesia there is still a discussion about the decision of the Minister regarding the independence of the institute of oncology, or actually the independence of himself. Let me remind you of some information about this. The oncology centre in Gliwice is a branch of the oncology institute in Warsaw. He's got great medical and financial results. The looters collected PLN 82 million of this institution, Gliwice: 75 million to cover the debt of the institution in Warsaw, 7 million to build and renovate the hall in the Institute in Warsaw. What happened at the beginning of the year? The Silesians resented and organized the action, yes to Silesian oncology. There were no differences between the Members here. Together, both in this room and in Silesia, we spoke one language. [[The oncology institute was the first.]] The locals were talking about it, the locals were talking about it. City councils, county councils have adopted specific resolutions. This action was strongly supported by the media: the Western Journal, the Gazeta Wyborcza, Radio Katowice. A petition has been sent to the Minister. And what happened? It was thought, discussed, finally made a decision. Not for independence, but money stays in Gliwice. A new director shows up, announces. Hooray! - announced a newly appointed director, then a new director who had previously been released. What's changed formally? Nothing. Technically, the Institute in Warsaw and its branch in Gliwice are one hospital. No promises solve this problem. It was rightly noted by one of the Members of the PIS, who said, "The thief said that he would not continue to steal, and we, foolish ones, scream "Hurrah!" [[Applause]] Just the answer to that decision that came up. In addition to the struggle for independence, Minister, and the financial resources developed by the Gliwice branch, you have also trampled on respect for the will of the people, the inhabitants of Silesia, the entire four millionth agglomeration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[They haven't done anything yet.]] Is this what you're supposed to be consulting your residents about their initiatives?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u166	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u167	What about the money that went to headquarters?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u168	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u169	Will they be returned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u170	The question will be asked by Marek Polak from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In my speech, I would like to express my full support for the national procreation programme and its assumptions. It is good that the resort is professionally leaning on this extremely important social problem. I hope that multi-wave treatment, prevention, wide promotion and education of the general public will produce the expected results and will not arouse such ethical emotions as the in vitro method. I am also aware that in some cases all programme assumptions, despite the best intentions of all parties, may prove ineffective, so I would like to ask the Minister: What in such cases? What can couples expect from their offspring? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u172	The question will be asked by Ms Krystyna Shumilas from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u173	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I speak about young women, young families who today know that the only way to have a child is to have an in vitro method, because no surgical intervention, no treatment will help them. Today it is known that for some of these young families just the only chance is an in vitro method. Recently, I had the opportunity to talk to a young woman before she was 30, who had just learned that she could have a child, only and only by undergoing an in vitro procedure. He's on the show right now, but he's already afraid of what's going to happen today if it doesn't work this time. This is a young family. They don't have the money, they're at the start, but they've decided they're gonna join the program, and they're gonna finance this program out of their own pocket. Of course, at the moment, a very big aid is a grant from the state budget. With regard to the ratio of co-financing to costs, it is 12 and 15 thousand. PLN costs in vitro treatment, and the funding from the state budget today amounts to 7.5 thousand. zł. They know that if this funding is over, they can't do it alone. Although they work, they are in a slightly better position because they inherited their parents' apartment, do not pay their credit, they are aware and know that without state aid they will not be able to use in vitro surgery. Why are you taking away their chance to have a child, a natural chance to be parents, to be responsible parents, to enjoy it and to give life? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A child? Why don't you want to fund the in vitro program from the state budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u174	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u175	Why are you so insensitive? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u176	The question will be asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. There is no Member. The question will therefore be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the six months that have passed, nothing good has happened in health care. The vision is chasing the vision, and we don't really know where you're going with this. The changes that have been announced for years regarding the system and talking about the budgetary system for health funding are still not filled in. Today we're talking about little things that are important, but it's not something that says how this system is supposed to look like, what guarantees patients have. What do we know for sure today? The day before yesterday, when you voted during the meeting of the Health Committee, you took away the subjectivity and self-government, which was supposed to protect the quality of physiotherapist services, physiotherapists. In the announcements there is an attempt on the independence of nurses and midwives. I think that after 25 years of working with the nursing government, it's really something unworthy. [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate.]] [[Imagination, bullshit.]] Sir, nonsense? Then ask the Minister what they're discussing with the nurses and midwives. Why are they storming so much? [[Where's the bill?]] On the subject, since June, the poorer will not have access to the in vitro procedure. What will this modification of tariffs lead to now? To the fact that these valuations are either on the verge of profitability or below it. What will this force those who provide such services to do? I mean, they're either gonna be. use poorer-quality medical devices so that the cost of medical services can be adjusted in addition to the cost of the medical device in this financial space. Scared are all those who, for example. They're implanting endoproteses. Proposed by the State to tarnify such services concerning hip, knee joints [[♪ The bell ♪]] or other joints are dramatically low. However, I strongly call for this benefit tariffling project to be modified because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u178	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u179	...such savings will affect patients' health and lives, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u180	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Dziuba from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'm going to ask you a question that's quite specific, so if you do, please use the written answer. Your predecessors did not consider moving medicines from the so-called advanced form of colon cancer. Third line of treatment to line one. These are, of course, more advanced medicines, more efficient medicines, but also more expensive medicines, which are reflected in the issue of refunds. Does the Ministry of Health plan to make a change in this direction, and if so, at what rate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u182	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The oncology package checks out. [[Who?]] That's what the foundation report says. [[Not in patients.]] Yeah, I knew you wouldn't know that. I am not saying this as a Member of the Civic Platform, but I am saying what the Foundation's report says Let's win Health. I don't think the Minister doesn't know that report. [[You guys did the report, too. It's gotta be fixed.]] [[You're interrupting.]] What does the report say? Thanks to the changes introduced a year and a half ago, patients wait less for diagnosis and treatment. The report was based on data from the National Health Fund, a survey conducted among patients. An example from my Świętokrzyskie voivodship, please: patients in an emergency were waiting for a maximum of 2 days. [[May I? Yes, you can.]] According to national data, he is ill in the scope of the witness package, e.g. Oncological surgery waited four weeks without a card - six weeks. [[And that's an audit.]] For a hematology witness - one and a half weeks, attention, without a card - 6.5 weeks. Among the patients suspected of lung cancer we had to diagnose in outpatient conditions, which is a misunderstanding, now we can diagnose in the hospital. Who's talking? This is said by the director of the hospital in Czerwony Góra, in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. [[Maybe in Forest Mountain. In Forest Mountain, maybe.]] I admit that there were problems with the implementation of the package at first, but many of these problems no longer exist today. As I said at the beginning, I don't suspect the Minister would know this report. So the question is very short and very simple: Why you are destroying oncology, why you are hitting Polish patients and listening to your so-called. The environment? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, very nice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u184	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The objective of the oncology package introduced since 1 January 2015 was and is among others. shortening queues in patients with suspected cancer. I therefore have the following question, although my predecessor has already referred to it: Does the Ministry have information that indeed queues to oncologists and waiting times for specialized benefits have been reduced and has this not increased the waiting time for these benefits in the case of other patients? Maybe I'll ask if it's true that the waiting time has been extended. I have another question: Is there a monitoring of the functioning of the oncology package in the Ministry? I'm asking for a written reply, if any. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u186	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u187	High Izbo! Former Minister, former Deputy Minister of Health Bolesław Piecha called the program in vitro with millions of zlotys thrown into the mud. And I will say another way: For less than 2 years in Poland, over 4.5 thousand were born thanks to in vitro. Children and 17,000. The couples are in the middle of a procedure. How much is it now? We don't know that because one of the first decisions of Minister Radziwiłł was to take this information from the Ministry. [[Shame.]] It was assumed that the programme introduced by the previous government - Civic Platform and PSL - from July 2016 to December 2019 will cost 304 million PLN. PLN 304 million. Ministers - they do not listen - what kind of sum is this compared to the cost of the 500+ programme for each child? No, I'm sorry, not for every single one, but for every other one. Not even for the second time, if it's the first one turned 18. And this program is going to cost us 22 billion a year. Will the 500+ programme improve the birth rate? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] No, he will, above all, improve consumption, Commissioner. In vitro is the most effective, most advanced method and it will definitely improve fertility. You spent almost PLN 3 million on the promotion of the 500+ program. And this is not the end of it, because the preparation of buses promoting the 500+ program, which took place in Poland, is another 205 thousand. And it's not over yet, because these buses are still driving around Poland. Millions spent on the promotion of 500+ are 400 in vitro procedures. This is 400 in vitro procedures. By taking 304 million, ministers, you took the hope of the offspring of thousands of Polish couples. You took the only chance women had of having a baby. You've taken a chance on those couples who don't have and won't have tens of thousands of zlotys for procedures. And I would like to address the absent Minister Radziwiłł: Minister, the policy area should be in the area of creating the right conditions to treat infertility, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the Minister, with one signature, took away the hope of the offspring from the Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u188	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u189	...turned Poland back to the Middle Ages. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u190	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Today we are talking about problems and financing cancer treatment in Poland. I would like to raise a very important issue regarding the availability of oncology therapy at county level. In many places in Poland, due to the lack of sufficient availability of oncology therapy thanks to the strength and determination of patients and representatives of local authorities, centres were established to implement these forms of therapy. An example is the Teleradiotherapy Department in Włocławek, in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, in the city, which is at the forefront in the statistics on cancer. Unfortunately, the plant has not been equipped with appropriate equipment and has not started treatment of patients since 2015. It's a reprehensible negligence and waste of effort. Minister, in connection with the above, I have a question: Does the Ministry of Health plan to equip existing and open new oncology treatment centres at the level of the county, cooperating with central centres? Can we expect the actions expected by patients - for many years expected - to do so? Włocławek is a former voivodship city with more than 100,000. residents. Let me add that few fewer people live in a county located in the world also in Włocławek. Therefore, it is worth to create the possibility of treatment on site, without the need to reach patients who are more than 100 km away from Bydgoszcz. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u192	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The number of people with diagnosed coronary disease reaches 1.5 million in Poland. Ninety thousand. Poles have a heart attack every year, and almost 200,000. is hospitalized for other forms of ischaemic heart disease. 20 years ago, 50% of the heart attacks ended in death. Today it's about 10%. It's due to progress in cardiology and cardiac surgery. Such a drastic cut in the evaluation of procedures that save lives in cardiology, which you plan, cuts off Polish patients' access to effective treatment. Doctors are alert to the fact that diametrically reduced tariffs for most invasive cardiology procedures, including the intervention treatment of acute coronary syndromes, deviate grossly from their actual costs. This will take back Polish cardiology by several decades and will inhibit the progress of medicine. As a result, it will also put the budget at risk for additional costs due to complications, re-treatment and hospitalisation will be necessary. Minister, who's gonna lose more money than you, Cardiologists or patients? Am I to understand that this is another good change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u194	Thank you. The question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I want to correct the statement of the Member who spoke about the fact that local governments came up with an initiative to separate Silesian oncology. The decision to do so came from the institute of oncology, where an association was formed, headed by my humble person, because I was elected by professors. Together, we took action - we invited all partners - so that from the oncology institute the collection of money by the head office, which so far was an example of what the Civic Platform with PSL allowed, would no longer take place. Minister, in view of the fact that so many communities have joined in this action, local communities, institutions, private individuals, I have a question: How will this funding look like today? Will there be financial independence of individual branches and in the event of the emergence of the Institute of oncology in Gliwice to some extent would the scientific achievements of this institution, which is the leader in Poland, in Europe, in a world that really educates professionals and which is an example of economy as well as concern for the well-being of the patient be lost? In all these aspects, the most important is the patient. The decisions that are made at central level concern the patient, because this is the highest value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u196	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I read with great concern the article in the Journal of the Legal Gazette of 4 May this year. p.o.b.: The cancer profile in Poland. Screening of cervical and breast cancers since December closed. It contained information on the state of care for women with cancer in Poland. I was particularly shocked by the fact that, in terms of the five-year survival of women diagnosed with cervical cancer, in the OECD countries, we were in the penultimate place, ahead of Chile alone. Reason - the disease is detected too late. According to the above mentioned text, despite the national programme for the eradication of cancer in 2006-2015, the mortality rates for cervical cancer and breast cancer are still twice as high in Poland as the European Union average. The central and voivodship centres coordinating the screening programme have not carried out their tasks since December due to the lack of appropriate regulation. Despite the adoption in November 2015 of a resolution on the establishment of another National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases for the period 2016-2024, there are still no details on its implementation. I also found in the article that the Ministry of Health no longer wants to finance the activities of coordinating centres. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following questions: What activities are currently carried out by the Ministry in order to verify the implementation of the activities of screening coordination centres? Is it planned to continue its activities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] screening coordination centres? If so, what changes will be made to improve their activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u198	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u199	What concrete actions are planned by the Ministry in the field of education...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u200	Thank you very much. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u201	...the quality of research and training for medical personnel? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u202	...Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u203	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, in in vitro infertility, in order for one child to be born happily, several others must be killed or sentenced to freeze for an indefinite period of time. So that it could be born $4.5,000. children, what are you bragging about here, in vitro, about 20,000. Either she had to die or they weren't allowed to be born and they're waiting for this moment. Modern science offers a method of treatment for infertility, because in vitro it is not, more effective, safer for the health of children and mothers, without compromising the conscience of doctors and medical staff, because it is not contrary to the ethics of their vocation, their profession, which does not reduce social morality. Of course, it's naprotechnology. Unfortunately, Minister, the knowledge in our society of the method of treating infertility, which is naprotechnology, is small, disproportionate to the problem of infertility that we face. Why? Because, in recent years, the country's reproductive policy has been reduced to allowing a moral revolution and, as a result, an abortion which, in order to impair women's fertility and health, has provided grounds for promoting in vitro. And that's how the reproductive business went. So I have a question: How does the Ministry of Health intend to disseminate knowledge about naprotechnology as a method of treating infertility in Poland? I meet with this among young couples who have a problem with infertility, that they really do not know or know very little about naprotechnology. I think that's how we'd help them very much. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u204	Thank you very much. Now you ask Mr Andrzej Kryj, a club called Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: absent.]] Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Instead of a substantive discussion, we have a group of people who are behind the theory that in vitro is the only way to cure infertility. In vitro doesn't cure. This is interference in the order of nature. It's about the human embryo. You can't use a human in the embryo stage for experiments, and in vitro is an experiment on a human being. [[It's a treatment.]] If, during the prenatal period, developmental defects are a reason to interrupt human life, and after birth to great care, it is hypocrisy. There are many known scientists against artificial fertilization, but the media do not publicise them for even such reasons: heart defect 2.5 times is more common in children conceived in vitro, lip bifida... [[Mr. Marshal, this is crazy. What do you want? This isn't Hyde Park. This is the Seym.]] ...2.5 times more common in in vitro children... [[Voice from the hall: You can't say such things.]] ...atresia, collapse... 4.5 times more...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u206	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u207	...oesophageal hyperplasia - 3.5 times more often. In children up to 5 years of age, twice as many surgical procedures are performed. Not all genetic defects are reported by centres that make huge profits. [[Any bullshit you can say? But don't let them talk such nonsense, Marshal.]] All cases of retina occur in children in vitro.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u208	I did not disturb the way you said things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u209	Even if the child survives chemotherapy, it is increased to 25% the likelihood of bone cancer. Professor Stanisław Cebrat claims that the worst will come true only in future generations. Among the cases of retinal tumor it was found that many of them are caused by mutations occurring in the embryo... [[Something unbelievable.]] ...so those mutations weren't in the parents' house. So in vitro, it introduces into genetic information new mutations that will result in future generations. The cost of treatment cannot be secured even by increased insurance rates, as they are unestimable. But we have an alternative, this is naprotechnology. [[Prayer.]] In vitro does not cure, it is interference in the order of nature, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a method that raises a lot of controversy. Question: "Should the in vitro method be financed?" Second question, everyone...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u210	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u211	Are doctors supposed to heal or grow human embryos? Thank you very much. [[It's a disgrace. It's just a disgrace.]] [[You were a doctor?]] [[The name is binding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u212	The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Noblecht, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A large part of the Polish population does not accept artificial in vitro fertilization for worldview reasons, so the availability of financial resources for the treatment of infertility was limited for this part of citizens. In parallel, the method of naprotechnology - the treatment of infertility is increasingly popular. It is a non-invasive method, consisting of observing the cycle of a woman, the most ecological one, because fertilization occurs under natural conditions. Some voivodship local governments took over the programme to support naprotechnology. Until now, this program has been run by councillors from Podkarpackie, Lubelskie and Mazowieckie voivodships. In Łódź the first reference fertility clinic in Poland is established at the Institute of Mother Polka, financed by the state budget. My first question is to the applicant: Why did the PO-PSL coalition government prefer only financing the in vitro method rather than supporting the method of naprotechnology, which thousands of Polish women were waiting for? The next question is to the government representative: How many centres are planned to address the diagnosis and treatment of infertility, not introduced to the in vitro method, to create the Ministry of Health in Poland? What financial resources are planned for this purpose in the current year and in the following year? In which cities are the centres concerned to be located? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u214	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The oncology package was intended to shorten the period from the onset of disturbing symptoms even to the time of medical procedures to treat the patient. However, following the introduction of the oncology package into my parliamentary office and many other parliamentary offices, more and more people began to apply for help, to intervene in order to apply these medical procedures. Therefore, I wanted to ask: Is the oncology package that has been prepared, introduced, this reshuffling, some sort of reshuffling of all these queues? The oncology package does not cover all cancer patients, but only some cancer patients, while it does not include those who have milder cancers, which may also become malignant during the illness. Those who turn to us come to the office claim that the queues for the procedure themselves have extended. So has this package been properly prepared to actually be shorter time [[♪ The bell ♪]] for everyone, or did he just shuffle that line? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to speak with the representative of the applicants, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened with great attention to the ministers, their concern for the opinion of the medical community. [[There were no such statements.]] Mr President, please don't bother me, because the marshal is about to begin the procedure of disfellowshipping you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u218	You were disturbing me more vigorously. [[And punishments are high.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u219	...and punishments are high. Your concern for this environment is truly astonishing. In fact, that quote I used when the humming of contentment was heard among... [[I don't think you've been to the debate.]] ... The Chief Medical Council at the doctor's reunion is real. And what amazes me is that I didn't actually hear one Minister or the other - I regret that Minister Radziwiłł is debating ethics today, and that's why you are here - I didn't see any opinion at all about the patient being better. The doctors complained that they had to make a consilium, so we're closing the consilium. The doctors complained that they had cancer recognition rates, so we're eliminating the indicators. Gentlemen, you've made a mistake. I also want to resolve my doubts and now I speak to all patients in Poland who have cancer. On a yearly basis, 140 thousand cancers start to suffer from cancer in Poland. People and a few hundred thousand more people get sick. In order to resolve all the doubts raised in the Minister's statement, the article of the Law that is being introduced today by Law and Justice says that in the article. It is necessary to repeal paragraph 136 of the Amending Act. 2. Repeal, I stress. This provision introduced unlimited settlement of benefits under the oncology package. This is your bill, this is your article, in which you are repealing the unlimited treatment of cancer. You say it's up to the president of the NFZ. That's exactly why we introduced this into the bill so that no president of the NFZ could ever impose limits on on oncology again. This country is simply changing the bill, exactly so it can. But little of this, the President of the NFZ will decide whether the cancer patients will be treated or not, and Minister Radziwiłł on the formal portal of the Minister of Health writes: the liquidation of the NFZ - at the latest in the autumn of this year. Well, what do you mean, gentlemen? You're throwing it out of the bill, you're justifying that the NFZ is being financed, and the minister a few days ago, pressed by the Prime Minister at a famous, glorious government meeting where you've been bragging for hours, what you did, what you didn't do, says, we're eliminating the NFZ. Don't make fun of people with cancer. These people don't have time to play with the law. These people have a fatal illness and expect the state to care for them, not to play in the article. 136, in which you remove limitless oncology treatment. The jokes are over. You eliminate the limitlessness in oncology, and it was you, in the previous term of office from these benches, who screamed: lift, Minister Arłukowicz, the limit for all medical benefits. Today, you're putting a limit on on oncology. Ask the patients, not the professors. Patients, not professors. Because I can explain to any of the ministers why this one, not another professor or expert, is saying this one, not another. I'd rather not do it from that podium. And I will also refer to Mrs Duda's statement. Madame, I am glad that I saw you on the stand, I have not had the opportunity to know you personally before, I did not know your views, but the amount of nonsense you are saying about in vitro from this speaker exceeds all limits of common sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u220	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u221	You're talking about genetic disorders...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u222	...be careful what you say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u223	...about congenital defects, you tell nonsense about thousands of healthy children born in vitro in Poland. You say this is an experiment. [[It's not about the healthy, it's about the sick.]] Please read the opinion of the World Health Organization. There's an organization. I don't know if you know this, but there is a World Health Organization that considers in vitro treatment. Please read... [[With understanding.]] ...to understand and then speak and not insult people. The experiment is not in vitro, the experiment is what you do with patients today. And it's certainly not an experiment, either, by the decision of the Minister of Health, who cut the in vitro program with one signature. Thousands of people in Poland who cannot afford in vitro will not be able to benefit from a free program thanks to your decision. These are hard facts. Minister Landa's talking about a valuation adjustment. Of course she's needed. Only if you reduce the valuations for defined benefits, you can't do it in such a way that you keep the whole system. You're talking about saving money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A billion zlotys in cardiology.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u224	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u225	At the same time, you are transferring money to the medical authority. Gentlemen, you're for patients... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u226	Thank you very much. Member in corrigendum? Was she mentioned by name? Now please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Krzysztof Łanda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u227	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, all the changes we are proposing are aimed at improving the situation of patients. What does patients care about? [[In liquidation.]] Patients are primarily concerned with access to health services, and these are the most important ones. [[That's why the limits.]] Second, quality. I'm asking you to fight the queues, first of all, you have to know how to do it, second of all, you have to have the resources. And, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no agreement that fortunes are growing because some benefits are overestimated. The previous government did not have the courage to deal with such valuations that are overstated. In those areas where benefits are radically overestimated, the previous government did not have the courage to move these funds where queues occur due to underestimation of benefits - benefits which the performance of which... [[Voice from the room: It's not worth it.]] ...is inefficient. Therefore, healthcare providers push these patients away, put them in line, and it is best for another hospital to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such fear. We heard similar voices when the tariffs in the ophthalmology were adjusted, reminding you, the tariff fell from 3200 to 2300. What were the effects? The result is that much more benefits are made, cataract surgery. [[So he made the right decision?]] Very good, great, congratulations, Minister, of course you do. But please do not use imprecise arguments, to put it mildly, in the case of cardiology. Firstly, I said that the process is still ongoing, and secondly, everyone knows that it is not where private cathlabs are created, and not because the benefits are understated, that their valuation is undervalued. Therefore, we need to make a correction. As you have seen in the proposal of these tariffs, there are many benefits, it is not just cardiology, there are also other scopes where tariff reductions occur. But we're also raising those tariffs. The first wave of tariff changes, in December, caused only an increase in tariffs, in the order of roughly... The costs of increasing these tariffs for nurses, especially environmental, long-term, palliative care, are likely to be about PLN 850 million. This wave - some tariffs up, some down. There will indeed be a correction. Another wave - at the end of June. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the records are not fit for law at all. You have entered into the laws e.g. so detailed regulations concerning queues that they are, firstly, irrational in many places, secondly, too extensive, thirdly, absolutely require correction, because it simply does not fit into the bill. This is a state overregulation. As I say, we're fighting the queues for real, not pretend. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you should also not worry about patient subsidies. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in two weeks' time, there's an external consultation on the reimbursement of medical devices. She doesn't introduce, doesn't increase the burden of the patient, just reduces it. [[We'll check.]] I mean, if it's like... o cataract, you will see that we will be able to submit this to the normal negotiated procedure: refund, applications, fees... [[We'll check.]] ...all medical technology assessment for medical devices. We will open not only a group covered by the common limit for basic, ordinary lenses, but also for advanced, multi-focused, track lenses. You'll see that it will. Many of them will be free for the patient. Here someone was worried about the quality of the lenses, about us going to the components from China and India. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would not discriminate against China or India because it is simply rude to those countries. On the other hand, we are talking about defining criteria for lenses, e.g. lenses or other medical devices, the quality criteria to be met by the applicant to be covered by a refund within that group. And this is just a rude formulation, discriminatory products from China and India. Everyone will be treated the same if they meet quality requirements. [[We'll check.]] You'll see in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not just about cardiology - we need to make valuation adjustments in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, one last thing I wanted to stress. It is not that most benefits in the basket of guaranteed benefits have too high a valuation. This is not the case, and the Minister certainly knows that most of the benefits and problems involved are due to undervalued costs in relation to their performance. It cannot be that we will pour extra money into this basket without correcting this valuation and will grow fortunes, as shown by financial statements, various private cathlabs, you can review them, see what gigantic profits, how many tens and hundreds of millions of zlotys They generate. And that's what we need to correct. And the money that we will release - I respond to Anna Czech's request - will, of course, be transferred to those areas that are underfunded today and where people suffer in queues in an entirely unjustified manner. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Naprotechnology?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u228	Thank you very much. Now please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Jarosław Pinkas. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, I should answer with questions, because sometimes questions are an excellent answer. Mr President, why do you conflict with the healthcare environment, the healthcare environment? Why are you trying to conflict doctors with nurses? Why are you comparing doctors with patients? Why aren't you building consent? There's no treatment without a doctor. There is no treatment without a medical team and a whole bunch of other medical professionals. [[Physiotherapists, too.]] So are the physiotherapists. Definitely physiotherapists, too. This is teamwork. This is the job of using everyone's skills. These skills are at different levels on different diapazones. Medicine should sometimes be feudal, and you know very well that there must be a manager, there has to be a head of the operating room, there has to be an operator, someone has to supervise the anesthesiology team. You can't do this one at a time. Those days are over. Ladies and gentlemen, another question, and that's what's been going on in this room. What did Polish doctors do to hate them so much? What did they do? They do heroic work in uncomfortable conditions. You haven't changed the bureaucracy that has taken care of you for years. It is we who have led to the situation that we have created 127 pages of absurdities in healthcare that need to be eliminated. This is what makes the doctor not want to enter the profession and that he is not determined, because he knows that he will not be taking care of the patient, but will be dealing with absurd bureaucracy. Not just bureaucracy, but other activities that should not belong to a doctor at all. Mr President, there is no sharing between nurses and doctors. It's not a method. Everyone has to work as a team. There is little money in this system, we have to act rationally, we have to divide it rationally. I have a deep request for you: please read those acts that you quoted to the end, and also think about what is between the lines. There are good intentions between the lines. Not sharing, not making a fuss. We don't act on the principle of divide and rule. [[I was talking about setting limits.]] We act on the principle of success in the form of a satisfied patient. I just wanted to tell you that, in fact, maybe the beginning of my speech was not very elegant. I'm so sorry about the apron that's on the stake. In your house, he's ironed. I know that. He's beautifully ironed. [[It's folded into a cube.]] [[What are you talking about, Minister?]] [[Voice from the room: Politely please.]] I wish that, Minister, after a few years of our governments, we could create a system that you would like to return to as a doctor, a system that will be friendly to every Polish doctor. [[Don't put my life in order. Make arrangements for the patients.]] Minister, I'd like to do something good for you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[For patients!]] [[You haven't answered any questions.]] [[He answers all the time.]] Because Dr. Arłukowicz as a well-educated doctor is also needed by a patient. [[This isn't a debate about Arłukowicz, it's about health care problems. You don't answer questions.]] [[He answers all the time, he answers.]] 80% The questions were ad personam questions, so I answer on behalf of Minister Radziwiłł. [[I asked you about nurses, not ad personam.]] You will not be leading to a situation where you will conflict. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nurses with doctors. We didn't do anything like that... Mr. Marshal, let me answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u230	I'll be there in half a minute. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: We didn't do anything that would cause any ferment or concern in the nursing community. [[Listen to the nurses.]] Please quote these documents in extenso, those legal acts that may cause concern for the nurses. [[You light it, and then you say it's on fire. What are you saying, Nitras, Arłukowicz?]] We have a dialogue with them all the time, which has not been conducted for years. On the other hand, Mr Nitras... [[He said I'm the one causing the fuss.]] [[No, he said that to me because Mr Nitras. Now I'm listed.]] Mr Nitras said that I did not answer the questions, and I will therefore move on to those important questions which... [[Time's up.]] Unfortunately, you no longer have a minister of time. [[In writing, please.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Jarosław Pinkas: Of course, of course, I'll answer in writing. And please read your sentences from the beginning to the dot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But don't insult us.]] Thank you very much, Minister. In the correction procedure, Mr Arłukowicz - 1 minute. [[There's nothing to straighten out. It wasn't called by name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I'd ask you not to take care of my doctor's apron and just take care of the job. The Lord says that you do not conflict with the environment. Do you really want me to show you the photos of yesterday's physiotherapist protest before the Sejm? They whistled, they honked, they screamed because you wanted to destroy their profession. Luckily, you realized in time that you had compromised yourselves. You fell over your own shoelaces, your own conscience clause, and your own mattress pads. That's the law you make. That's the bill you're making. And don't talk about someone conflicting with someone here. You have a protest at the Sejm. You brought this bill. You said that physiotherapists have no right to have their own self-government, and at the same time you hand over millions of zlotys to the medical authority. These are your decisions, not mine. Once again, sir, I'm asking you to understand, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's your job?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u232	Thank you very much, sir. You had a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u233	You're a representative of the government and patients... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...in a doctor's community, not a doctor's representative in a patient's community. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u234	Mr Nitras corrected 1 minute. You're welcome. [[But it wasn't triggered.]] [[He was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u235	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I don't know why you're so emotional. I am a member of the Sejm, who asked you a question that is not the result of any of my ideas, but of what I am asked by nurses and midwives. If you want to see the number of e-mails I've received in the last few days - and other Members have received - from nurses and midwives who are concerned about how you drive... Minister, would you listen to us? We listened to you when you said ad personam. It's about the number of e-mails we get from nurses and midwives who ask you to just talk to them. They say you're ruling them out of the team that's reviewing the bill and who's preparing and evaluating the changes. These are the voices of nurses and midwives. These are the voices of the people who voted for the Members who are asking you these questions. You're in the Seym, and you shouldn't answer... Even if someone provokes you, it's your duty as Minister to answer the question... [[Substantively.]] ...politely pay attention to the problem, not ad personam [[♪ The bell ♪]] to address us because you haven't answered any questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u236	Thank you very much, sir. Member of the Commission, on the basis of the corrigendum. One minute. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Since we did not get the answers to the questions asked, and it was not only I who did not get the answers, and Minister Łanda's comments show that he probably did not fully understand what we were asking, I would ask that the Minister in writing answer us... [[All the questions.]] ...how changes in the tariff grid will be made, so that really these average costs, bearing in mind treatments, which are often more expensive in some people, e.g. In the elderly... What criteria do you take into account, by taxiing, that there should be no reduction in the quality of medical services, that it would be enough for medical devices, and not just for medical devices, so that it would not be so - as the Minister referred - that there would not be only proverbial Chinese food on the market, that the quality of the services actually provided to patients would be guaranteed and that [[♪ The bell ♪]] institutions, especially those which perform highly specialised treatments, e.g. HR...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u238	Thank you very much, Member. One minute's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u239	...didn't deepen your debt? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u240	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: Mr. Marshal, High Izbo...]] [[In what mode?]] As I understand it, the Minister is still in correction? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: If I may answer these last questions, please, please, at the moment...]] [[In what mode?]] But the Minister already had time to answer. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: Can I or can't I?]] 1 minute in correction mode. [[Okay, we agree.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u241	Thank you. Well, ladies and gentlemen, once again. At the moment, the use of medical devices is beyond any state control. I mean, if a valuation is made, it includes the procedure itself, including the doctor's work, and the medical device. So what kind of medical device do healthcare providers use? Therefore, the cheapest and the worst. If we separate the cost and define the quality criteria that this product has to meet, believe me, we will get much better prices than any single hospital or even a group of hospitals, we will have better prices and ensure high quality. On the other hand, I remind you that you have adopted the methodology of tariffs. [[But you're changing it.]] This is a micro-cost analysis, you have adopted it by law and imposed it on the tariff agency, which was also created - and very well - during your term of office. This is also the effect of her work, which she started in 2015. Thank you. [[But since you're changing, we'll ask you to answer in writing.]] Okay, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u242	Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Marshal.]] This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on anti-terrorist actions and amending certain other laws (Print No 516). We're waiting for the ministers. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik and present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I have the honour and duty to present to you on behalf of the Polish government a draft law on anti-terrorist activities. The main right of freedom is the right to security. If a man cannot feel safe, he cannot exercise his right to freedom. The Act on Anti-Terrorism is intended to ensure that Poland and Poles are more secure against the threat that has entered Europe strongly. Of course, we're talking about the plague of terrorism. Experiences from Madrid, London, and recently from Paris and Brussels are clear - at our borders there is a threat that is real and which is rapidly expanding. The Polish government cannot pretend not to see it. The government has prepared a law to give Polish services and police real tools to prevent and combat terrorist offences. What are the main principles of this law? This law is ordering the powers of the service. No more chaos. There will be a clear and clear division of roles between the head of the Home Office and the Home Minister. The Head of the ABW shall be the authority responsible for preventing terrorist incidents, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration shall be the authority responsible for preparing, responding to and removing terrorist incidents. The ABW will coordinate analytical and information activities as well as operational and exploratory actions on terrorist threats. The Act introduces alarm degrees into the Polish legal order. These are degrees that correspond to NATO-WS terminology - Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, also in security and alarm issues in Polish cyberspace. The alarms will be introduced by the President of the Council of Ministers after consulting the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Head of the ABW. In cases of urgency, such powers will be exercised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on his own. In the event of the introduction of any of the emergency steps, the Head of the ABW will be required to appoint a staff which, using the infrastructure that the ABW has, will direct all State action to combat crime and prosecute the perpetrators of terrorist offences. In the event of the introduction of a third or fourth level of alert, activation shall be carried out, preparation of the Armed Forces for action. When this third or fourth degree of alert occurs, it will be possible, with the permission of the Minister of National Defence, at the request of the Minister of Interior, to use the Armed Forces for police action. Use the Armed Forces not only when the police are insufficient, but when they may not be enough. Thanks to these records, the best Polish military special forces, the type of GROM, will be able to secure, for example, the NATO Summit or the World Youth Days. So far, they haven't practically had that possibility. In the event of the introduction of a third or fourth degree of alert, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will be able to prohibit public gatherings or mass events. I would like to stress that the decision of the competent authorities will still be subject to judicial review, so that it will be possible to appeal this decision to the court. Court control will be necessary here, because these are inalienable civil rights, such as the right to assembly. In the event of the introduction of at least the second stage of the alert, the Home Minister will be able to decide to limit or close traffic at border crossing points for a maximum period of 7 days. This will be a decision on immediate feasibility. It may now issue such a regulation, but it often takes several weeks to issue a regulation. The law will enhance the powers and powers of law enforcement services, but above all the prevention of terrorist crime. First of all, we need to be sure that the head of the ABW, as a key body for preventing terrorist crime, will have access to all the data that you collect in different bodies, in different registers, in databases. This access will be fast, on the way to teletransmission, but also fully accountable. It is an extremely strong strengthening of Polish services, it is an extremely strong strengthening, a large strengthening of the Anti-Terrorism Centre. One of the main powers that the Head of the ABW will be able to apply in order to prevent terrorist crime will be the possibility of using operational control ordered by the Head of the ABW, of which he will be required to inform the Attorney General and the Service Coordinator. This review by the Attorney General, when he thinks it's appropriate, will be able to stop at any time. This will be a review of only terrorist offences, only against non-Polish citizens and for a period of not more than 3 months. If there is a need to extend this check, the procedure shall be followed, which shall be laid down in the ABW Act, following the relevant consents of the Attorney General and the Court. The police and other services will also be given more authority to download fingerprint images and capture the facial image of a person who is not a citizen of the Republic of Poland - when there are doubts about the identity of that person when there is suspicion of illegal border crossing, when there will be doubts about the declared purpose of the stay, when there will be suspicion that the person has participated in terrorist training. The database in this area will be run by the chief police officer, as he conducts in this area, and will be made available for the purpose of prosecuting terrorist offences. The Minister of Home Affairs will also receive the powers of immediate expulsion from Poland of a foreigner who may conduct terrorist or spy activities. This will be a decision on immediate feasibility. Its appeal will, of course, be possible, while the appeal against this decision will already take place from outside the borders of Poland. We all remember a person who was expelled and walked the media for 3 months, slandering the Polish state. That's not gonna happen right now. Uniform services have long advocated the introduction of the possibility of special use of firearms, the so-called. Sniper shot. We introduce the possibility of using such a shot by the police, but also other services, in certain situations. In the context of terrorist incidents, a shot may be fired to save human life in order to disable a terrorist whose result may be death or serious health violation of that person. We introduce an appropriate procedure by law, removing responsibility from the sniper, transferring responsibility to his superiors. It is the right long-standing postulated by all Polish services, also known and introduced in the West of Europe. We also simplify the procedures using firearms in other situations than a sniper shot. In terrorist situations, there will be no need to use warnings that the police and other services must use before firearms are used at the moment. This is essential. I think it can be said in the category of oversight that the Internal Security Agency has not yet had any insight into the information covered by the banking secrecy. She only had insight into the investigation procedures, but we are now introducing the possibility of access to banking secrecy with the permission of the court. Often officers say that they know much better how money used to finance illegal enterprises circulates across Europe than what happens to them when they enter Poland. We also introduce the so-called institution at the operational level. A reverse spy and a reverse terrorist. The services will be able not to notify the prosecution in certain situations, subject to very strict conditions, if this is relevant in order to prevent a espionage or terrorist offence. We are also introducing regulations that will protect Polish cyberspace. We introduce the possibility for the Internal Security Agency to conduct tests of Polish critical infrastructure using methods used by criminals so that gaps and weaknesses can be found in ICT systems that support the most sensitive critical infrastructure. A register of incidents affecting ICT security will be kept at the Internal Security Agency. In special situations, the district court, at the written request of the Head of the ABW, submitted after obtaining the written consent of the Prosecutor General, will be able to order the blocking or requesting the administrator of the electronic system to block content on the Internet - content which is related to a terrorist offence. We are also introducing this law to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure. We introduce new institutions: an institution to search not a specific premises belonging to someone, but e.g. A certain area. This is what was introduced in France by means of an anti-terrorist law. We also introduce the possibility to carry out procedural activities between hours. 22 and 6 a.m., if this is a terrorist offence. We are introducing a new institution of a reduced standard of evidence in the event of an order to state allegations of a terrorist offence, if the good of conduct so requires. The statement of objections can, of course, be drawn up on the basis of information obtained as a result of operational and exploratory activities, e.g. in terrorist offences cases. information obtained by interview or by partner services. In this situation, the court, I stress, at the request of the prosecutor against the person charged, will be able to apply temporary detention for a period not exceeding 14 days. But, I stress, it will be a court decision. The law also amends the provisions of the Penal Code, thus fulfilling our international obligations, such as those arising from the Russian Convention. It supports the gradual preparations for terrorist offences - not only attempted and carried out, but also the preparation will already be criminal. It also introduces into the Polish Penal Code new crimes, which the lynx convention is ordering us to introduce, i.e., a crime of participation in training that may enable a terrorist offence to be committed, as well as the crossing of the state border in order to commit a terrorist offence. The Code also tightens sanctions in case of conviction for the crime of false alarm, which is a plague in Poland. A number of false alarms are recorded every day in Warsaw. Now the court will have to rule on a settlement and a cash benefit of no less than 20,000 at the time of the conviction of the person who is guilty of the offence. zł. We are also introducing a coroner's witness institution in relation to a terrorist who voluntarily withdrew from a terrorist offence and revealed to the law enforcement authority the relevant circumstances of the act or prevented it from being committed. This person, at the request of the prosecutor, will not be subject to penalty by a court decision. This is a very important right, a very important rule breaking down the solidarity of criminal groups. Finally, the bill faces new technologies that appear, which were already a threat to Polish air traffic - it is about drones. It gives the services, in certain situations, the possibility of taking control, immobilizing or shooting down the drone - of course in certain situations, strictly described in this law. The Act also amends the telecoms law. We follow the West, eliminate the anonymous prepaid service - no more anonymity for those who try to commit crimes. I would like to say that, in principle, the whole West, the whole European Union, is leaving this type of service. In principle, the main EU countries have long given up the possibility of maintaining an anonymous prepaid service on the telecommunications market. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All these powers I have mentioned here are intended to ensure that the Internal Security Agency, the police and other services effectively protect Poland from terrorist threats. We want Poland and Polish services to be a strong element in the European system for preventing and combating terrorism. We also want to ask a lie to the proverb: a wise Pole after harm. We learn from those who have paid an extremely high price for their lack of imagination, for their disregard for certain dangers. This law is so that we never have to experience what has led European countries, Western European countries, to adopt similar rules at home. We believe as a government that there is no other way. Therefore, on behalf of the Polish government, I have the honour to stand before you here today and submit for adoption a bill on anti-terrorist actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u244	Thank you very much, Minister. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a change in the marshal's character. We move on to the next part of this point. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. In this situation, please speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club... Too soon, sir. You'll have to wait a minute. No, it takes five minutes to wait. We start with Law and Justice. [[How about four minutes?]] You are starting with Arkadiusz Czartoryski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u245	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the threats we see today in Europe and in the world, in view of the increasingly modern techniques used by terrorists, the changing world around Poland, the borders of Poland and even Poland, after what we heard just moments ago, and after we received this document, we could say, at last, or even at the last moment. Finally and at the last moment we have a document, we have a bill that responds to the threat, to the challenges of the modern world, which is not a place of paradise peace, because there are terrorists in it too. Ladies and gentlemen! We have seen on TV screens recently various events, also from nearby places, because from Europe, including Western Europe. I would like to quote a statement which appeared at the press conference of the head of the Belgian Justice Ministry, Mr Koen Geens, who, in front of the television cameras, recently stated that one of the most famous terrorists - I quote: Saleh Abdelslam was staying in one of the apartments in Molenbeek, Brussels on the night of 16 November, that is the district of Brussels, at ul. Delaunnoy. The Belgian authorities knew this, but they stormed this apartment only this morning, and Abdeslam escaped. The Minister further explained that the reason for stopping anti-terrorists from entering the terrorist safe house was the law that prohibits searches between 21 and 5 a.m. As the Minister said, it's the law. It didn't help us with the case. Based on the tracks - said the Belgian minister - it was found that the same terrorist, who was responsible for the attacks in Paris, was in this apartment and had just escaped a few hours earlier. What the Minister said: so that we do not have such a situation in Poland that a wise Pole after injury. It is precisely in this case that, in the case that I have said, there is in this Anti-Terrorism Act, which the government has proposed, an extension of powers in terms of just searching rooms, places, but also crossing borders by such people and using electronic communications. This is also one of the elements that will be eliminated in this law as new regulations, new powers are introduced, an institution to search premises and other places and persons in the area indicated in the order and to apprehend the suspect. The search and detention will be possible at any time of the day in the specified area. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many of those regulations that the Minister spoke of. I think that the most important element of this new law is to realise that the real threat to citizens' freedom is not, in principle, a law, not the authority of the services, but the real terrorism that operates in Europe. This is a real threat, and efficient state services, which are not overly bound by regulations, are actually a guarantee of civil liberties. We have excellent service in Poland, we have excellent formations such as GROM, Formoza, Pegasus. Let them do their job. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club is in favour of working on this document. There will still be an opportunity to discuss details. We are in favour of us starting work in Parliament, so that we can do it efficiently, so that we can face these biggest challenges. I can't imagine that we could have a multi-week, multimonthly obstruction in Parliament that would make it impossible for the services to really respond to the challenges we face in the middle of this year: the NATO Summit, the World Youth Days and other events. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u246	Thank you very much, sir. And now Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the government, this draft law concerns the strengthening of mechanisms to prevent terrorist threats. The Civic Platform has undertaken and has always supported measures aimed at ensuring the security of the citizens of the Republic of Poland. It was thanks to our efforts that Poland became a significant partner of the Member States of the European Union and NATO. Thanks to us, thanks to Poland's strong position, the NATO summit will take place in Warsaw. Today, however, we are investigating a draft law on anti-terrorist activities, which, apart from the name of anti-terrorism, has little to do with it. Once again, we are working on a project written on our knees, without public consultation, to which high-ranking officers of the services responsible for preparing and securing such important events as the European Football Championship held in 2012 or the Polish Presidency in the European Union have serious reservations. As we remember, these events took place in absolute silence, calm and no one had any objections to the work of our services. We are investigating a project that affects key issues from the point of view of security of Poles and Poles, while at the same time creating two parallel systems, duplicates records, skips existing solutions, and even removes some key issues from the point of view of security. A project that limits civil liberties and democratic order. A project whose adoption will result in organisational and decision-making chaos in all services ensuring security, order and public order. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not kid ourselves. A few weeks before the international events planned in Poland, such as the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days, services are not needed organisational, decision-making or legal chaos. Our services are well prepared to combat terrorist threats. After all, not so long ago you said that Poland is safe, that we are well prepared. Then what's the bill for? Tell me the truth about the real purpose. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the pilgrims will leave and the bill will remain, while the ordinary Poles, the inhabitants of our country, will be the subjects of this bill. Isn't the obligation to register prepaid cards, the possibility of solving manifestations, even greater surveillance freedom an action against citizens' freedoms and freedoms? Do we want a second Russia or Belarus in Poland, where civil liberties and freedoms are fiction? We are opposed to the violation of civil liberties and freedoms even under the mantle of the right to security, which in Poland under the rule of the Civic Platform was ensured at a high level without unnecessary legal tricks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u248	Thank you very much. And now the second Member of the Civic Platform - Mr Krzysztof Brejza. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u249	Thank you. I'm gonna file a motion for our club right away. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I love freedom and understand - at present, the listeners of Radio Three have promoted this song to the first place on the list of songs of all time. There's a reason. [[I'm afraid so.]] But you don't love freedom, you don't understand freedom, you don't respect freedom. In January, you introduced an Internet surveillance bill: processing Internet data on a massive scale, checking what websites Poles enter, what movies they watch, what they search for in search engines, what interests them. Now you complete Polish surveillance, it will be Orwell of 2016. On the pretext of fighting terrorism, you're putting in two weeks' detention without any charges. Do we have martial law in Poland? Is there a civil war going on like in the '70s in Ulster? You're building a wiretap on what's called a wiretap. A foreigner. These are typically eastern solutions. The classic called it putinada. People without Polish citizenship will want to eavesdrop without the permission of the court. Why without the court's permission? There are procedures, aliens can be placed under operational control. Perhaps you mean those who perform the duties of a Polish citizen - one of PiS's messengers used such a phrase - journalists, opposition politicians who will become Japanese, Chinese, Georgian? After all, you were eavesdropping on your coalition officer in 2007. For the operation, Treser was sentenced, but the lucky ones had the support of the President, who freed the justice system from your people. [[Applause]] Security tests are supposed to be a service field. Safety tests. According to the definition of the act smartphone configured with your tablet, the computer already fills the marks of this equipment, which can be tested without your knowledge and without your consent, because the authority will test whether your phones, smartphones are safe. As part of these tests, you can install spy software, and your phone will become a rubber ear of power and capture everything in your room. [[This is some kind of stalking mania, sir.]] No, this is your experience from 2005-2007. [[2 million wiretap was made by dwarfs in 2014?]] Sentences passed, but they were happy, they're in this courtroom. Under your rule, there were 1,800 thousand, no 2 million wirets, no elementary knowledge. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Full insight into the collections of data about Poles, about their diseases, tendencies, expenditures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a private life. These are typically eastern solutions, in a hurry, without consulting the social side. Question: "Do you want to upgrade your famous recording studio, Minister?" New technology, variety. That was the reality, that's what you're going back to. That is why we apply for rejection of this bill on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u250	Thank you very much. Now he's gonna perform... [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: Marshal, may I?]] [[Voice from the hall: Can the Minister?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What about the bill, sir?]] [[Anti-terrorists can come in at night.]] [[Maybe something about a document?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to remain calm in the Parliamentary Chamber. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, Mariusz Kaminski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked the marshal to allow me to speak, because I would nevertheless urge us to speak substantively so that we do not throw ourselves at invectives. We are talking about extremely important matters concerning the security of each and every one of us regardless of political views. Terrorists don't choose, and they won't ask if anyone's voting for the Platform, for the Modern, for the PSL or for the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I appeal, really - Minister Wąsik said - let's be smart once against the damage. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the argument made here by the representatives of the Civic Platform, of course I could argue with you... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, dear.]] ...arguments of all kinds. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] Really, if you have the audacity to teach us what it means to fight the opposition, if you have the audacity to look this man in the eye... [[We have the nerve.]] ...and not apologize to him for illegally eavesdropping on his loved ones... [[He lost a civil case with the CBA. To Wróblewski, a journalist.]] ...that's it. It's just funny. Merciful sir, you just said, you insulted me. I just want to explain one thing to you. [[Your impudence is beyond all bounds, sir.]] There is one thing I want to explain to you, to you from the Civic Platform, because you have a very short memory. I want to remind you of a project two years ago... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] ...from 2014, a draft amendment to the Act on ABW and AW. [[Voice from the room: Shh.]] This is a project of the Civic Platform government, because it was a government project, and you as Members supported this project during your work in Parliament, provided for very radical solutions regarding the operational control applied to foreigners and the powers of the head of the Home Army. Well, according to your government project, which you have been so valiantly supporting in Parliament, the head of the ABW could eavesdrop on any foreigner, regardless of whether he is suspected of terrorist activity or any other activity, for an indefinite period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the project I'm talking about. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] What's more, the Sejm expert office... [[Belt in the eye, gentlemen, beam in the eye.]] ...ordered an opinion on this project of a professor, whom you so often recall, Professor Chmaj. We have here his legal analysis of this project of yours regarding this provision that he gave to the head of the Homeland Security Agency... [[We consulted, we consulted.]] ...the full possibility of applying operational control to foreigners for unlimited time, regardless of what crime the foreigner is suspected of. You supported this, your government sent this project to Parliament two years ago, and there are opinions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u252	Minister... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ... e.g. Professor Chmaj, that it is a draft in accordance with the constitution, in accordance with democratic standards and that by law we can introduce certain restrictions. Yeah, we're introducing some restrictions because... Minister, I think this time allowed us to refer to this... [[Your marshal has no right to limit the minister.]] ...and there will be speeches. I would now like to move on to further speeches. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: As a representative of the government, I have the right to speak... You have the right, but there will be time for that, so you can speak by answering... [[Voice from the room: But please don't limit your time...]] ...for speeches and questions. So maybe we can finish this part. [[But your marshal didn't silence the Members of the opposition.]] Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: Ladies and gentlemen, I can't... Your Marshal, thank you very much for paying my attention, but it seems to me that it is my duty as a representative of the government to keep your lies up to date... [[Your duty? This is hypocrisy.]] ...your hypocrisy, your hypocrisy. Do you have the audacity to talk about human rights? You're against us? It's just embarrassing and ridiculous. [[There was no request for pardon.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, want to reject this type of discussion, we want to focus - we are open to proposals - on concrete ideas for improving our security, in the sense of us Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty as a government to give the services responsible for eliminating these threats of a full range of legal opportunities, with democratic standards, so that the Polish state and the services are not helpless, that our citizens will never know what the citizens of those countries, which in the name of others, will experience. such demagogy, such hypocrisy ignored the basic principles of security. Today innocent people in Europe, Western Europe, where democratic standards apply, are dying. And there are democratic standards in Poland, too, but we need to... [[Something like that. And what did the European Commission say yesterday?]] ...be prepared for the worst situation. The state cannot be helpless and will not be helpless. We will guarantee this, regardless of your demagogy, from your lies about this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Because we've put security everywhere, among other things. After the experience of what they did under your leadership when the terrorist threat was artificially created... [[Homeland Security reports are missing. Why did you take the ABW reports down on the Smolensk disaster?]] ...to keep an eye on Internet users - you're the ones who've been monitoring Salon24 - to keep an eye on manifestors, legal participants in demonstrations, public gatherings. In terms of terrorist threats, these activities have been carried out. Yeah, we're putting in security. We stigmatize it, we stigmatize it, we expose it to the public, we refer it to the D.A.'s office... [[It's a lie.]] ...so that it never happens again, that no more people of your mentality abuse power. [[Applause]] [[You take the documents off the pages...]] Thank you, Minister. And after the performance... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: And your lies will be branded, your hypocrisy... [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] ...and the perpetrators of these illegal activities, which are contrary to democratic standards, will be prosecuted by authorities authorized to do so... And after the Minister's speech, a member of the Council of Ministers... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ...because these things can't happen again. ...Mr Mariusz Kaminski... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: And no one here is going to take advantage of the terrorist threat... [[Eavesdropping on the opposition.]] ...to act against the opposition. Because everyone has the right to manifest their views regardless of what their views are. Everyone has the right. And it is the duty of the State to secure that every citizen can exercise his or her civil rights. Thank you very much. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: And we're talking about the fight against terrorism, ladies and gentlemen... Minister... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ...with real terrorism. Minister... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ...not the way you fought... [[You heard the coalitioners.]] ...in 2010. You fought against the defenders of the cross, you fought the priests, you fought the opposition... Minister... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ...in the name of the fight against terrorism. [[Minister, Minister...]] You guys, who filed a bill two years ago on the Internal Security Agency, who supported this project... [[Why isn't your marshal reprimanding the MPs? Why is he reprimanding the Minister?]] Minister... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ...you guys, you got the nerve. To tell us... Thank you very much. Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: ...that this is an undemocratic solution? You're pathetic and ridiculous. Now we're going back to the speeches. And on behalf of the Kukiz Club15... Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: Thank you very much. Please, but next time, pay a little attention to what the marshal says. Please take the floor of the representative of the Kukiz club15 by Anna Maria Siakowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Kukiz club15 a position on the Anti-Terrorism Act and on amending certain other laws. Terrorism is a very important challenge in the 21st century, also a very important challenge for Europe. Today we are dealing with Europe's flood of Islamic immigrants. We are not really able to verify the identity of those people who invade Europe. We must therefore take such measures as will allow our citizens to be protected in a special way. The forecasts for the development of terrorism are not optimistic. The authorities of each country are taking preventive and intelligence measures to protect the state institutions, their citizens, and consequently the state as a whole against the possibility and consequences of terrorist organisations. Today, as Poland, we face these two great challenges, which are the NATO Summit and the organisation of World Youth Days, but in fact these challenges can be much more in future years. Thus, state services must be prepared to act effectively to respond to the threats we are witnessing today. This therefore requires a firm alignment of competences, particularly with regard to command of special actions. The issue of cooperation between the authorities and services under the Ministry of Interior and Administration, such as the Police, Border Guard or the civilian special forces, and those under the Ministry of National Defence, such as the Military Gendarmerie, must also be organised. The current draft law definitely, first of all, is needed, but requires further very detailed work on the Sejm Committee, and perhaps on several Sejm committees dealing with different areas. In particular, there are doubts about the provisions that could overcompensate citizens in their privacy. I'm talking about records like this. require prepaid cards to be registered. A balance should be sought between the interests of the State and the interests of every citizen, namely to protect our civil liberties, especially since recently we have been faced with an excessive and even unjustified interference by the state services, which has often also led to violations of civil rights. Here it is enough to mention, for example, the actions undertaken by state services towards participants of legal public gatherings such as the Independence March, also the unjustified activities of special services or state authorities towards people who run satirical websites - I think here, for example. about those who ran the Anti-Comor website - as well as about illegal wiretaps that were assumed For journalists, for example. These situations cannot be repeated, so we must pay particular attention to how these provisions will look so that fundamental civil liberties can be protected in a special way, but at the same time ensure the smooth operation of the Polish services and public authorities to ensure the security of the state. Thus, as a general rule, Kukiz is in favour of this bill, but we will seek to introduce such provisions as will ensure that these fundamental civil liberties are protected and do not allow the State to interfere too much with the freedoms of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u254	Thank you very much, Member. Now, Mr Adam Szłapka and Mr Witold Zembaczyński will appear first on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Yes, Minister, this is a very important subject. It's about our safety and our freedom. The modern one does not question that the services should have tools to combat terrorism, and this is an important subject, but it is not a secret that this law is controversial, so we believe that such a law should not be taken in haste without consultation. Applicants, i.e. ministers, and representatives of the Law and Justice, are in a hurry because we are dealing with two very large events in the near future, namely the NATO Summit and the World Youth Day. I, frankly, do not accept this argument because either it is a bluff to cover the intentions of the applicants, or it shows that six months after a good change the state does not work and the service does not work. I naively imagine that the NATO Summit is prepared and buttoned on the last button that command centers are prepared that the services are prepared for all possible eventualities and that all procedures are already implemented and rehearsed. On the other hand, the Act introduces new procedures. We can't do it in two weeks, these services aren't able to introduce these new procedures. This bill doesn't put things in order, it brings chaos. A concrete example. Art. 17 notes that in the event of an incident of a terrorist nature competent to direct operations in the case of civilian facilities, an officer appointed by the Police Headquarters and, in the case of military facilities, by the Military Police Department shall be appointed. What about a civil and military fuel base? What about Okęcie airport, which is civil-military? It's imprecise in this bill. The next thing you know, mass events. Art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 states that in the case of the announcement of stage III and stage IV of the alarm, mass events are cancelled from the machine. It says precisely that they're simply canceled. [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: May, may be.]] Which is when we're dealing with a mass event of 30,000. People? It creates extra chaos, panic, it's a very serious threat to the whole party. As regards the bill and the arguments raised by Minister Maciej Wąsik, it is mostly already in the current legal system or should be included in the Act on Operations and Reconciliation. We therefore believe that this law does not provide special services with tools for counter-terrorism, but has very serious side effects. I'd like to mention a few of them, because I can see that time is running out. The first thing is blocking the pages. Blocking a single IP address disables all pages in a given domain. According to this law, the service can turn off for 30 days, block the site. There is no information about the process of unlocking these pages. Such a situation can be easily used as censorship and an attempt to eliminate competition. On the other hand, if we compare this point with a catalogue of terrorist events, which is an annex to this law, item 2 (6): information about the loss or the theft of Polish identity documents... Someone stole my ID. I put it on Facebook that my I.D. was stolen. That might be a reason for the service to turn off all of Facebook. It's an absolutely absurd recipe. Penetration tests. In two words, I'll tell you what penetration tests are all about. This is testing the network's resistance to possible attacks, i.e. Services have the option of hacking into the network and downloading data from there to see if the data is safe, i.e. as if the services have another opportunity to monitor citizens. And we consider the most serious charge, as you have said, partly in the current legal system, to introduce the possibility of controlling all online databases, i.e. NFZ, banking secrecy, etc. This law does not provide services with anti-terrorist protection tools, and gives them the opportunity to profile very precisely what the citizen does, what habits he has. It gives the services precise, accurate information about the citizen, his habits, what drugs he uses, what diseases he has, what he searches for on the Internet. This is a very serious threat to civil liberties in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The modern one has requested a public hearing on this matter and a request to the marshal to reject this project at first reading. If this proposal is not adopted by the High House, we will try to amend this proposal, and we have also requested that this proposal be submitted to the Committee on Administration and Digitisation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u256	Sorry, sir, don't run away. I understand there's a motion for rejection. Are you confirming him here? [[The rejection, yes.]] Good. Unfortunately, Mr Witold Zembaczyński did not fit in in these five-minute speeches on behalf of the clubs, so maybe there will be questions. And now we go to the club of the Polish People's Party. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will perform on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u257	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! At the beginning of the current term of office of the Sejm from this tribune several times during the process of some laws I stated explicitly that the Polish People's Party will not be the opponent of everything, which does not mean that in a mindless and even unreasonable way we will become only a voting machine at the discretion of the parliamentary majority. Unfortunately, once again we are placed directly against the wall, where deadlines are being chased, and the bill should be passed yesterday. This is the way and procedure of our consent is not and will not be. Members should have at least a minimum of time to familiarise themselves with the matter being processed, all the more so when it comes to the status of the law so far interfering with civil liberties. As a general rule, it is obvious, given the geopolitical situation, that the free movement of the population, the protection of the citizen from undesirable phenomena must be, and this is undisputed. However, this argument does not in any way support the urgency of the bill. As we have seen, it will be a law of general application, unlimited in time, not an episode. In short to discuss the substance of the law, it should be noted that it changes its scope a whole range of existing legal standards. Is that right? We don't know that today. It shall include its provisions, for example in the relevant chapter, in the proposed Article. 14 and Article 14 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the This will be linked to the system of alarm stages of the system of providing police support by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, but we do not know to what extent and for what period of time. The bill designer proposes a solution whereby a telecommunications operator who installs a temporary installation will be able to charge the property with service. The damage caused by the acquisition of the property will be compensated. However, from a practical point of view, who will later be sued for damages? Judicial supervision of operational and cognitive activities is extremely problematic because they are already illusory in the current legal state, and after the possible adoption of the law as proposed in print 516, this supervision will not be at all. In view of the recent adoption by the Sejm of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, it is not clear whether applications are submitted to the District Court in Warsaw by the Head of the ABW after obtaining the written consent of the Prosecutor General, they may also be submitted by the national prosecutor who is the Deputy Prosecutor General. Certain amendments to the Law of 6 June 1997 raise doubts. Urgent clarification is required by the provisions on the preparatory procedure and this is in relation to Article. 23 draft law providing for a special procedure for such proceedings. While, in principle, it can and must be accepted that acts of a terrorist nature should be punished with all severity, it is not indicated whether the proposed solutions constitute in whole or in part an infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is also necessary to clarify the provision empowering the head of the ABW to supervise the use of the expenditure limit, especially as the projector provides for the use of corrective mechanisms. The possibility that terrorist methods may vary and that Poland must have appropriate instruments to properly identify and assess risks and to effectively counter possible incidents must be accepted. In the event of a terrorist attack, Poland must be prepared to take immediate and adequate measures to react, as well as to remove its effects. Here's our full agreement. The fight in cyberspace must also be considered legitimate. Some doubts arise in the case of granting the Minister responsible for home affairs powers to take decisions e.g. with regard to the anonymity of persons using the so-called prepaid telephone cards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With regard to the definition of counter-terrorist and counter-terrorist actions, as well as the location of terrorist events, these concepts cannot remain completely open, but must be a genuine closed catalogue. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Due to the limited time, it is impossible to refer to such an extensive and complex matter. The Polish People's Party has never stood and is not opposed to making rational, favourable decisions for its own country and its citizens, hence recognising the need for appropriate regulation in relation to situations to counter terrorism in any form and form, we are in favour of referring the government's submission to the Parliamentary Committees, where, we believe, all doubts and inconsistencies will be resolved and the report will prove to be a result and a good product of the participation of all political forces in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u258	Mr President, we are going to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u259	Marshal, thank you so much for indulging me in this moment. Thank you. [[Please, 1 minute 12 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u260	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. 43 persons were included in the list of Members who were asked questions. Therefore, the time to ask a question is 1.5 minutes. [[I'm shocked. A lot. That's graciousness, Marshal.]] Please observe this time, because we have a very long list of people who want to ask a question. We begin with Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u261	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the comprehensive justification of the law we read, among other things, quote: Given Poland's participation in the activities of the international anti-terrorism coalition, as well as the fact that the territory of the Republic of Poland is recognised in materials distributed by terrorist organizations as a potential target of possible attacks, I have a question for the Minister. If this is not classified information, and this is only one unnecessary sentence in the explanatory memorandum to the necessary act, please indicate which information material specifically concerns and where it is disseminated. The bill provides for four types of emergency degrees depending on the scale of the threat of terrorist attacks. The first stage, ALFA according to NATO terminology, is introduced when information on the possibility of a terrorist event, the nature and scope of which is difficult to predict. Does this enigmatic, supposedly disseminated information, which is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, mean that, as of the date of entry into force of the Act, we enter automatically into the first degree of terrorist threat, the degree of ALFA? And what will that mean for Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u262	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone else like to join the list? I can't see. So I close the list. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot from the Civic Platform Club to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u263	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The work on the Anti-Terrorism Act is accompanied by an extraordinary pace, practically the speed of lightning. In addition, it is planned in this project that the Act will enter into force the day after it is announced, which is an extraordinary solution. This is argued by the fact that World Youth Days will soon take place in Poland as well as the summit of the North Atlantic Alliance. Of course, according to this law, the Internal Security Agency will play a leading role in the coordination of these activities, and this will force the creation of new procedures in connection with the cooperation of the service with other services involved, as well as with the implementation of new solutions, such as the possibility of enabling the Internal Security Agency to access public registers. I therefore ask the question: Do you ministers provide guarantees that, until then, all the provisions contained in this law will be implemented and functioning well? At the same time, please indicate how these solutions will be implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u264	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marcin Kierwiński, also by the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! In this bill is all that PiS likes most: more power for power, more interference in human life and finally playing on emotions and real fears. Under the cloak of the fight against terrorism, you really only want one. You want every citizen's life to have more power over the PiS. Experience has shown that any record that gives you more power to restrict civil rights is dangerous in your hands. [[You know this from your own experience, sir.]] But please take it easy, Member. It's like a grenade with a safety pin on it. We know it's gonna explode. The only question is when it's going to explode. [[It blew up for eight years.]] You speak of your own countrymen - your president says so - as Poles of a worse sort. [[Think of something more interesting because it's hard to listen.]] And you, Members of the Law and Justice, see nothing wrong with that. With such intercourse, there is no certainty, no guarantee, that in a moment you will not consider your own citizens to be terrorists, and that you will not start visiting them at night, just because they think otherwise than your leader. [[And you didn't visit the Anti-Comor, sir, not your services?]] Question. What real safeguards do you intend to introduce into this law to control how the services will work, or will they not endanger civil rights? If you, Minister, say... I've heard of a substantive debate. Forgive me, but you're pathetic and ridiculous. Such words are to be addressed to Members during the debate on such an important bill that is scandalous. It's just a scandal. If anyone's funny about that kind of speech, it's you, Minister. [[This is the East, Russia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u266	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u267	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! There is no doubt that the role of the authorities is to develop efficient and efficient procedures to prevent any threat from fundamentalists. However, it should be noted that the so-called so-called draft adopted by the government. The Anti-Terrorism Act provides for the granting of powers to executive authorities allowing far-reaching interference in the area of the rights of individuals due to the inclusion in the law of a very broad catalogue of terrorist offences. This in turn must raise doubts from the point of view of the constitutional principle of proportionality. Among the new resources made available to special services, particular controversy is the possibility of blocking access to more indeterminate information, especially websites, which may in fact be a tool for censoring uncomfortable content, in particular in the absence of adequate judicial review. At the same time, it must be stressed that the proposed solutions are not temporary but will become a permanent element of the legal system. The most shocking thing is that the adoption of this project has taken place in principle without any discussion or public consultation, and in the opinion of citizens, in particular Internet users, such solutions should be preceded by a broad public debate in order to explain to citizens, Internet users, why so far-reaching interference. This needs to be explained to people. [[And you explained the entry into the house of Anti-Comor?]] Therefore, I ask the projectors to clarify the doubts described above. [[♪ The bell ♪]] related to the introduction of the aforementioned regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u268	Thank you very much. I was afraid I was gonna have to tell you that we started to pass the time, and here we are. [[I didn't.]] Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u269	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Art. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 provides that in the event of the announcement of a third or fourth degree of alert, mass events which are already under way may be interrupted. Ladies and gentlemen, from what I understand, as I understand this article, even a football game can be interrupted when the third or fourth degree of terrorist threat is declared. Just wonder who's going to announce it, ladies and gentlemen. The question is, won't the service stop the match when the team's favorite score just won't appeal to one of the services. I'm curious how it's gonna look. [[Quite possible.]] This law, in this provision, refers to the law on the security of mass events... [[Where did you read this?]] ...but it has not been determined who or how to analyse the risks associated with causing panic. Who, and how, is to analyse this risk when a local government official is responsible for interrupting a mass event and information about the type of risk is held by the Home Minister? Why doesn't the Act provide for a way of stopping a mass event taking into account the risk of possible panic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u270	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Your rush to work on this bill explains that in a few weeks, as we all know, we have two very large international events: the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit. It is clear from the expert's opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not possible in any way for the special services to be able to use your law to secure these events. Events of this rank, as someone here rightly said earlier, should be prepared at least a year earlier. [[At least a year before that, your government should have done it, and now we have to fix your omissions.]] A few weeks earlier, everything has to be buttoned on the last button and there is no room for any possible attempts that may turn out to be a big misfire. [[Your friends don't think anything, nothing.]] The special services must have developed schemes, have proven methods and put in place ways of coordinating cooperation between themselves and with public administrations. Substantive questions, ministers. Why are you not trying to make possible improvements in the existing system led by the Government Security Centre, which in Poland is responsible for all possible crises, including situations related to terrorist threats? After all, you know very well that the Government Security Centre directly cooperates with the Internal Security Agency, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and public administrations of various levels. And what is most important: Even though the law is currently being processed and, of course, it is not yet passed, have you already implemented any of the assumptions contained in it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u273	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The draft law on anti-terrorist actions assumes that it will be possible to conduct operational control without the need to obtain the consent of the court, among others. for the purposes of the identification of terrorist offences. [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: Only, exclusively.]] In theory, this is only for people who do not have Polish citizenship, but the law does not specify what the ABW is going to do when the nationality of the suspect is unknown or when the Polish citizen is just an interviewer of a foreigner suspected of terrorist activity. [[And you weren't eavesdropping on journalists and their callers?]] In these situations we are dealing with the fiction of varying levels of protection in the case of Polish citizens and foreigners, which can cause a risk of abuse also against Polish citizens, as already mentioned by my previous speakers. How are you ministers going to address these doubts? Question two. The Head of the ABW shall have the right to require the controller to block information, with the consent of the prosecutor, of course. The review of the court shall be foreseen within 5 days of the actual blocking of the content. Should it not be necessary to introduce an obligation to inform the court immediately of the decision taken by the head of the ABW to tighten or block [[♪ The bell ♪]] IT data? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u274	Thank you very much. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The draft law is so called: Anti-terrorist includes a number of open and very general definitions. This is a great danger, because it can, of course, affect with the ordinary human price, such as the abuse of power, the great limitation of personal freedom. [[Look who's talking.]] One such open regulation... Madam, you will have your time, really. [[I will, I will.]] I see you're a great specialist. One such open regulation is the possibility of blocking websites. There is no control over the absolute power given to the head of the ABW at this moment. I have a question for the Minister if you're afraid of this absolute power, of getting out of control by the head of the Home Office, but history knows such cases of abuse of the law... [[That's right, the Anti-Comor side blocked under your rule.]] ...and the abuse of power, which I'm sure from the autopsy are known to the ministers. [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: Yes, 8 years.]] I would pay particular attention to this because it is very dangerous. This solution is very strongly involved in the issue of the deterioration of the protection of professional secrets. Where, ladies and gentlemen, is the confidentiality of journalists' communications? PiS is going towards the police state, actually no, I have to apologize, because the police services after 1990 were well regulated, they are going towards the police state, you have to call things by name. In the place of PiS Members who are so active today that I do not protest like this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it concerns you, ladies and gentlemen, for example. Silent control of your loyalty. [[We're not terrorists.]] [[Madam President, this is simply unbeatable hypocrisy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u276	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. [[The dwarfs raided the editorial office and raided the laptops?]] [[What nonsense are you talking about?]] [[The Member is under-informed.]] [[Dwarves, not your servants.]] Members, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question for you. The Act extends the powers of services not only in the fight against people who want to do e.g. bombing or causing some other terrorist situation where there is a suspicion of this threat. Tell me how the definition of a terrorist offence... How are you gonna do that? it is interpreted because it is very broad and imprecise. Terrorist action can be considered e.g. disruption of the government's website, government administration. This occurrence of a terrorist event could be a pretext for banning, for example. for non-governmental organisations holding some kind of demonstration. Don't you think that it is appropriate to clarify the provisions on the introduction of the third and fourth degree of alert by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, which allow the organisation of public gatherings and mass events to be prohibited? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u278	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions to the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator. Minister, the introduction of solutions proposed by you to block information and ICT services can have serious financial implications for financing and doing business on the Internet. From the perspective of a legal entrepreneur, the possibility for a state authority to block access to information or information technology services for a period of 5 days could mean a risk of paralyzing business and serious losses. Given the imprecise wording of the definition of a terrorist offence or event or IT data or ICT services by States, do you not consider that this may prevent or impede the acquisition of funding for the start-up or development of Internet activities in Poland? Question two. You are proposing that the head of the ABW maintain a list of persons suspected of committing terrorist offences or suspected of carrying out activities aimed at committing the aforementioned crime. Given once again the wide scope of the definition of a terrorist offence or activity proposed by the States, should it not be necessary to clarify the criteria for listing specific persons in the aforementioned list of data and to specify the circumstances in which the person concerned may be informed of this fact? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u280	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club, next question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u281	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator. With the entry into force of the State Act on Anti-Terrorism, each holder so-called. prepaid cards will be required to register the card with the operator of telecommunications services, otherwise such card will cease to work after a certain period of time. Minister, several million Poles are currently using burner phones. Don't you think the Minister's mandatory registration should cover only those customers who will buy the card after the law enters into force, and those who bought the cards before the bill was passed, allow them to function normally? [[Nonsense.]] Who will collect and verify personal data of card holders? Who's gonna fund this trial? Finally, will, and how, unused funds, the costs incurred by customers in purchasing such cards, be reimbursed to customers if they do not provide the operator with their data within the first 6 months of the date of entry into force of the Act? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u282	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Krajewski, the Law and Justice Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The draft anti-terrorist law presented is an adequate and rational response to one of the most important challenges in today's Europe, which is a real threat from ruthless terrorists. I will remind you that in recent years there have been terrorist attacks in Europe in Brussels, Paris, but also in London, Madrid or Oslo. Poland has not yet been the direct target of a terrorist attack, but must be prepared for every situation. We must do everything we can to say: a wise Pole before harm instead of: a wise Pole after injury. Given the current results of social research, which clearly indicate that most Poles believe that there is a real threat of terrorism in our country, meeting the expectations of Poles in this area, the Law and Justice government has prepared a draft anti-terrorism law. It is worth recalling that for 8 years PO-PSL governments were talking about the need to prepare such a project, but nothing was done about it. [[It wasn't said at all.]] [[It's a lie.]] The adoption by the Sejm of the bill will also be a strong accent in the preventive dimension. Thanks to the adoption of this law, we will clearly convey a strong signal that Poland does not exist only theoretically, but it is a strong country which respects the zero tolerance principle for terrorism. Minister, I have a question. Will the introduction of the law limit the possibility [[♪ The bell ♪]] The preparation and execution of terrorist attacks in our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u284	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! I want to get back to foreign affairs. The bill assumes that in relation to non-Polish citizens who are suspected of terrorist activity, services may conduct classified activities, i.e. obtaining and maintaining the content of conversations, otherwise called operational control or surveillance. The Head of the ABW will be able to order operational control of such a person, without anyone's consent, only to inform the Minister for Special Services and the Prosecutor General of such operations, who are political officers. Why did the project applicant fail to include an independent court in the draft law in this case? Why does the Government of Law and Justice deprive foreigners of any judicial protection against illegal surveillance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u286	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, although in the current situation in Europe it is necessary and brings many good solutions, is also controversial at many points. [[Well, club sanctions will be for praising our project.]] I will focus on the obligation to provide and register personal data when using... Why did you turn me off?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u288	I turned it off. Excuse me. It was absolutely not my intention to turn off the Member's microphone. Those buttons... [[Voice from the room: No, because it's not really...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u289	I will focus on the obligation to provide and register personal data when using prepaid mobile phone cards. The government plans that, after the entry into force of the Act, people using such cards will have six months to provide their personal data, otherwise operators will have to disable the service. It seems that such a solution is intended only for evidence - to prove someone guilty after the assassination. This isn't a preemptive action. I wanted to ask you about the purpose and purpose of such solutions. Another question - if someone intends to buy a prepaid card in bad faith, he will find a way to register it, e.g. For people who have been set up. The next issue is prepaid cards used by children and young people. How will the issue of minors with no proof of identity be resolved who currently use such services? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u290	Thank you very much, Member. And now the question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to your project, ABW has virtually unlimited access to data and information that have been collected in all public records, as well as events that have been recorded by cameras placed in various types of public buildings and on roads. I will remind you, Minister, that the same data can be obtained on the basis of the current law, but there is a little something - a very important detail. Well, the key thing in this law, in this change that you are proposing, is that you want to use this knowledge without any external control. The various types of public organisations do not agree with this. There are also many reservations about this among the Members of the opposition who have made their views heard today from this speaker. Minister, shouldn't you, however, ask for judicial review in obtaining this kind of information? That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask you whether the elements of this law, which we are about to implement, are you already implementing? Please answer in writing to what extent if yes. And thirdly, of course, we're afraid of a terrorist threat, but also [[♪ The bell ♪]] We fear, as much, the interference of the services in our lives without any social control. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u292	Thank you very much. And another question, Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government's draft law on anti-terrorist activities also provides for amendments to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, in order to enable the Head of the ABW to gain access to information which is a professional secret related to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments. This is intended to improve counter-terrorist financing activities. My question: How, on what basis, are the amendments to the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments - not about banking law, but about the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments - aimed at improving anti-terrorist financing measures? Will really access to information about who acquires and sells shares or bonds on the Polish capital market or other derivatives improve anti-terrorist financing activities? And how will it improve it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u294	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Club Civic Platform. There is no Member. This is another person, Mr Marcin Święcicki. I don't see an MP either. So another person, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! This question has already appeared today, but I want to put it in a different context. Indeed, in the provisions of the contested law, the State proposes that the head of the ABW maintain a list of persons suspected of committing terrorist offences or suspected of carrying out actions to commit a crime. My question concerns possible consequences that will result from the inclusion of such a person on this list, because you have not included such information in your project. Please answer the question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u296	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! As has been said many times, the new law is intended to increase the security of Poles, but it raises many controversys of citizens, probably justified, because easier access of services to our data, the use of data of local authorities or information covered by banking secrecy does not benefit the safety of individual people. But it's not over yet. The announcement of suspension of public gatherings and mass events raises the most doubts. The possibility to close websites is also an issue that affects young people, especially young people, very personally, and I think there will be no agreement on such activities here. There are also doubts about the announcement of the resignation from anonymous phone calls to the so-called. prepaid cards, which means buying a card will require registration on the basis of the buyer's documents. The basic question that has already sounded many times here, but which actually needs to be asked continuously and constantly: Will civil rights not be unduly limited? We citizens fear that so that the government is trying to take advantage of tragic events in other countries, in countries that have much less restrictive anti-terrorism laws to boost the atmosphere of fear. If the act is primarily to secure two important events, i.e. NATO summit [[♪ The bell ♪]] and World Youth Day, shouldn't she have a limited time of action covering only the time of preparation of these events? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u298	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u299	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, My question concerns Art. 49. It is very important and appropriate to propose amendments to the Customs Service Act in which solutions are introduced extending the catalogue of cases in which Customs officers are entitled to use or use firearms by enabling the destruction or immobilisation of an unmanned aircraft in cases where the flight or operation of an aircraft endangers the life or health of a person, presents a threat to protected facilities or provides reasonable suspicion that an unmanned aircraft may be used as a means of terrorist attack. Security, gentlemen and messengers, is the most important thing. But in connection with this article, there are two short questions: Who will decide to disable an aircraft that will cross the state line? Will the decision be taken as soon as possible to eliminate the potential threat? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u300	You're welcome. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with a quote. Thomas Jefferson: A society that will sell a little freedom for a little order will lose both of these qualities, because it does not deserve both. Ladies and gentlemen, the question arises because we do not know who is the subject of this law. Seems like all of us. The limitation of the right to assembly, freedom of expression, the right to privacy is serious. What can we lose? We could lose a lot. What can we lose on the Internet? The project is about blocking access to data. This may mean blocking the protocols on which Facebook, Twitter or the anonymous data exchange network are based. What online data is, because the Attorney General will decide because there are no precise legal definitions. How will professional secrecy be protected? Will the law protect lawyers, journalists? Who's gonna be bugged? None of us have a guarantee it wasn't him. [[And you didn't violate journalistic secrecy by eavesdropping on Wojciech Sumlinski?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is completely absurd to argue that this law relates to World Youth Day or NATO Summit. It is not possible to build an infrastructure for downloading and processing data, and this is one of the main ideas in the project, so the pace of work seems inexplicable and the underdeveloped law will be with us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, is another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u303	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start by saying, "Why do you need this bill?" Is it difficult in such a military society to control a few foreigners that can be counted on one hand? Do you need such a powerful surveillance tool, oppressive to foreigners, which in Poland we have so little and so easy to control, because you can see them on the palm of your hand? Why do you need such a powerful tool in your hands? Minister, you will join a group of officials who have really great power. We care as an opposition, not to abuse it. According to Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 The Head of the ABW shall determine, by way of order, the scope and manner of gathering information concerning citizens suspected of terrorist links. The inclusion of a person in such a register may mean a serious limitation of his or her rights and freedoms, whereas, in accordance with the Constitution, normative acts which relate to rights and freedoms, civil liberties, can only be determined by law. So it's a serious legal defect. Why are the criteria for listing not governed by the law? Another question. The Head of the ABW shall inform the Minister of the Special Services Coordinator of the instructions related to the terrorist threat issued to other entities. Shouldn't he also inform the Special Services Commission? Why are you limiting Parliament's control role in the circulation of this information, and you are expanding it, for example. o Minister of Justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] An active politician, head of the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u304	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a very specific technical question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 17 It shall be concluded that in the event of a terrorist event competent to direct on-the-spot activities is an officer appointed by the Chief of Police where the place of the incident is a civil object. As far as military facilities are concerned, in this situation, the military police are in charge. Question: "Who is competent to direct actions in the case of objects that serve both purposes?" An example of an object that serves both civilian and military purposes is the airport. So, a request for information. The fear is before there's a situation that we don't know who's in charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u306	Thank you very much. There are young people in the gallery from Primary School 5 in Żywiec. [[Applause]] I hope that a trip to Warsaw is a nice thing - welcome young people - and staying in the Sejm is a special pleasure. So listen to the debate in the plenary room. The question will be asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u307	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 8th draft law provides that persons suspected of carrying out terrorist activities may be subject to operational control for 3 months without the consent of the court. The question is: Why was the court's consent eliminated when the suspicion of terrorist activity is perhaps one of the most obvious reasons for the court to consent to the operational control of such a person? On the other hand, the article. 24 introduces the possibility of temporary arrest for a period of up to 14 days on the basis of allegations made from information of an operational and cognitive nature. Temporaryly arrested on such grounds will have a very limited right and the possibility to hear the allegations due to the secrecy of these actions. Whether such legislation is contrary to the provisions of the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which Poland ratified in 1977, in particular I am talking about Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One and two? On the basis of which the court will decide on a temporary arrest, where a terrorist threat appears to be the most serious condition for a provisional arrest order in a normal manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u308	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u309	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, normative acts concerning civil rights and freedoms may be established only by law. In that case, why is fingerprinting and biometric data determined by a regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers, if this clearly affects citizens' rights and freedoms, e.g. when a person who has been subjected to an activity refuses to participate in them? My second question. Art. Article 30 (5) introduces into the Criminal Code. 224b ordering mandatory judgment of at least 10 000. zł for causing the so-called A false alarm. Isn't this punishment excessive... [[What? Bad?]] ...in view of the fact that the perpetrators of these crimes are mostly minors and still have criminal liability under other laws and may be obliged to make good the damage, perhaps at a very high level, in civil proceedings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u310	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Józef Leśniak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u311	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In Europe, legal solutions for anti-terrorist actions have taken different forms. Consider France, for example, in which the Anti-Terrorism Act of 10 years ago, among others. points out the need for modern and tightened methods to combat terrorism, amended the definition of a terrorist offence, according to which the act of terrorism is also to prepare for a terrorist offence, inter alia. through activities such as the participation in online discussions on topics related to the implementation of terrorist intentions or even the mere fact of being in the area of terrorist activities, the freedom of movement of persons in areas covered by terrorist activities has been restricted, which could result in a threat to public security in the event of their return to France, which is important, the possibility of banning entry into France by nationals of other administrative States where their presence would constitute a threat to State security. Despite such far-reaching restrictions on French regulations, there is no public hearing about surveillance or restriction of civil liberties in France, in a country which is widely regarded as their cradle. Minister, which solutions applied in other European countries are included in the draft law on anti-terrorist actions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch from the Modern Club will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Law and Justice Government has indeed prepared an anti-terrorist law, but it has prepared it in a hurry, without the consultation and agreement required. On the other hand, it is never a rush to create good law, in particular it is impossible to allow the creation of bad law at the expense of the security of Polish citizens. And an example. In fact, the basis of this law was to organise the powers of the various departments to respond effectively to terrorist threats. But not only do the provisions of this law fail to meet these principles, they even create additional chaos. Art. 3, Minister, states that the Head of the Internal Security Agency is responsible for preventing terrorist incidents, while the Minister responsible for Home Affairs is responsible for preparing to take control of terrorist incidents. The question is who is responsible for the possible take-over of terrorist incidents where this is carried out solely by the forces of the Internal Security Agency. How do you want to avoid the chaos of competence, and how will the procedure for determining the scope of competence between these authorities and the procedure for transferring responsibilities between them be? This is a very important issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club - another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It is wrong that there has been some kind of accumulation - hence our fears - because there is a accumulation of records that are controversial, raise constitutional doubts and raise some reservations about the protection of civil rights, because we have a law on the prosecution, we have a law on police, and now an anti-terrorist law. I assume that it is very good that certain actions will be sort of ordered and some standards will be developed and dealt with in situations of actually terrorist threat. I will also say that there is one thing that is really good in this law, namely that there is a scale of threats introduced and that you are running certain actions in this law depending on the degree of threat. It seems that one thing could be tempted, all the more so since this law will apply all the time - at first we thought it would only be during the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days - so that these actions, which really raise some reservations and controversy about civil rights, would be triggered to a higher degree of threat. I think this is the field. It is for such a compromise, and it is necessary to seek solutions so that it is indeed only in the event of a serious threat that operational methods can be used which actually restrict civil liberties to some extent. By the way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, are you fans of which teams? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u316	And that's what's important. And now another question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Tulaev, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank God so far Poland has not been the direct target of a terrorist attack, but this does not mean that it remains completely free from this threat. The Polish legal system does not yet have one legal act that comprehensively regulates the issue of identifying terrorist threats, countering them and combating them and removing the consequences of the attack. Hence the question to the Minister: What law is in force in other European countries? Is this law more restrictive or is it less restrictive than what the government has proposed in Europe? Much was said about prepaid cards. I would like to ask if it is true that the obligation to register prepaid cards already applies in Germany, the UK, Spain, Italy. Is it true that this obligation exists in 10 Member States of the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u318	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! The decision to revoke the mass event shall be subject to an appeal to the competent district court. However, the Act does not provide for a period within which the appeal is to take place to be considered. It is not difficult to imagine the situation in which there is an appeal to the court, but we have the situation that, given the efficiency of the courts, this is taking so long that the date of this event is really coming. Therefore, it is really possible to block any mass event in this way. Shouldn't there be a time limit under the law that would indicate that the appeal is to be considered before the date of commencement of the planned event? I would even suggest that it should be some time before the date of the planned event, not the day before. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u321	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have an annex to the bill, a catalogue of terrorist events, and I have the impression that he is prepared quite chaoticly, because of course I do not attribute evil intentions. But chaos, which - I have the impression - has snuck into this annex, has a number of implications for the citizen, because on the one hand we have events here, about which there is no doubt that they are terrorist events, e.g. attacks on Polish soldiers and allied troops, kidnapping of Polish citizens residing in Poland or abroad or kidnapping of an aircraft, water or ground vehicle in the territory of the Republic of Poland, but we also have other events in this catalogue. The question is whether information itself is a terrorist event, because we have an event: information about the loss or the theft of Polish identity documents. There is also the use of a green laser, which can, I remind you, be easily bought on Allegro, or the disclosure of objects or dual-use devices - and such devices we have hundreds - or there is information about plans to create an Islamic university in our country. I understand that participating in a terrorist event can lead to suspicion of terrorist activity. Therefore, I have a specific question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 is provided that suspected persons of terrorist activity may be covered [[♪ The bell ♪]] operational control for 3 months without court approval. In this case, why was the court's consent eliminated when the suspicion of terrorist activity is one of the most obvious reasons for the court's consent to such a person? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u322	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill was adopted by the government on May 10th and after a few days we have a situation that we have it in the parliament hall. This haste indicates that this bill is because there is no time to really do what is needed. That is, not a new law, but a review of existing legislation and matching it with current operational and research challenges, taking into account the powers, tasks of individual special services, the scope of their actions, to pay particular attention to organised crime, terrorism, money laundering or, for example, trafficking in human beings. We know that there has been an Anti-Terror Center at the ABW for five years, and there is no need for a special law to regulate these issues. The two provisions of this law are very worrying and can be applied in a dangerous way, as history has already shown, and should not be adopted in a democratic country, especially since experts say that these laws are incompatible with the international law of the United Nations, which has already been mentioned. It raises doubts about eavesdropping and peeping on foreigners for 3 months, arresting for 14 days in custody only with operational charges, often without the defendant's access to documents and suspicions. I would like to ask the Minister: If today we do not have a law that prevents car accidents - to quote specialists - after alcohol [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or after the drugs, why does it have to be a bill like that? And that's what we have every day. One last question. In the Seym halls it is said that now there is this law, and in the next throw the Minister will change the special formations and the ABW as it is today will be abolished, but a new service will be established. I would like the Minister to say whether there is something true about these rumors circulating in the Seym halls, or whether that is the intention of the Minister: to liquidate the ABW and to establish a new formation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. [[36 seconds bonus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm trying to believe that the intentions that were behind the presentation by the Minister or the government of this bill are noble. The Minister assured us here after a representative of the Civic Platform who expressed his position that, of course, this security would be ensured, not as it was before. Except, Minister, with all due respect to your position, you are perhaps one of the most unreliable people who can provide such assurance, given both your previous activities and that nervous, aggressive reaction after the presentation of the Platform representative. Minister, such advice, however, that you, if you already have this duty imposed on yourself, as a coordinator of the special forces, refrain from such nervous movements, because it is bad evidence, it really shows that the intention is not to provide security and something quite the opposite. I also have a specific question. I was going to ask the Ministry of Internal Security about this, which you spoke about, but this, I think, is the aim of security. On the other hand, I will also refer to the article. 8, where reference is made to those three months of classified activities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the guarantee that after 3 months with a break of 1 day again the head of the ABW will not decide for the next 3 months? That way, you can permanently keep an eye on someone. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u327	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I have not heard a single substantive comment from Szymanski and Breyza speaking on behalf of the PO Club. [[Because you've been talking all along, Member.]] So, gentlemen, my first question. Can you ask yourselves a little bit of trouble and at least read the draft laws they speak of? [[A stream of words.]] High Izbo! Are there any boundaries... [[Your Marshal...]] ...political manipulation, attacking a blind government, even against... [[Polish-Polish, Bolshevik.]] ...of course the rations that, in the face of an increasing terrorist threat, they have to introduce, moderate legislation in this area for common security? High Izbo! Plus, we're dealing with a surprising transformation here. Mister Hyde has turned into Dr. Jekyll and crocodile tears, which means... [[This is the transformation...]] ... In short, Members of the POs here are flaming out the theatrical outrage of imaginary violations of democracy in order to forget, or maybe just talk about the performances of the services of their reign. [[Corrigendum.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PO, isn't it during your rule that the ABW reported twice a day on the organization of the march!Wake up, Polish in 2012? [[Applause]] Reports included names of field organizers, telephone numbers, names of transport companies, registration numbers of coaches, routes of their journeys. The ABW reports even contained the content of conversations conducted in these coaches. Wasn't it during your reign that the Homeland Security Office collected lists of participants in legal demonstrations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with addresses and PESEL numbers, and didn't the vice president of the Internal Security Agency use wiretap in your private trial? Remember. [[Applause]] [[But not a word about the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u328	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum. Misunderstood.]] Mr President, I have noticed this, but at least let me announce you, because the pace... [[That's right, Marshal, I'm so sorry.]] [[It's easy to go, it's harder to read. You haven't read a single article in this bill.]] It's not really necessary. [[For the first time in this mode, please forgive me.]] Madam President, let me now address Mr Krzysztof Breja, who wants to be corrected. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u329	Thank you very much, Marshal. Madam, you misunderstood my statement. I was absolutely referring to facts, facts and facts again. The fact is, the wiretap on the so-called. The foreigner will be without judicial review. The fact is that security tests will be carried out, so it will be possible to interfere with smartphones, computers, tablets, listening to rooms using spyware. [[Sir, what are you talking about?]] The fact is to control databases on-line, collections of data about Poles, various registers, and health registers, and bank registers. [[Mr President, you are merely putting a dot over and over your own intelligence or evil will.]] No, I'm just talking about facts. I'm talking about facts, not insinuations. Minister Moustache is laughing. [[Well, how else can you bloom those andronics you're telling?]] The fact is, because it caused such fury with Minister Kaminski that the CBA for the actions of Minister Wąsik had to apologize to the journalist whose phone records were collected by Minister Wąsik. [[And did you apologize to 52 journalists?]] It's a fact, it's a losing civil case. I'm talking about facts. Facts, facts and facts again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] It is also a fact that the Minister has been pardoned in the course of ongoing legal proceedings. I know it makes you furious, and then you yell at the Platform Members, and you reverse the meaning of concepts. These are facts, facts and facts again. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: from TVN.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u330	Member of the Commission, too, in the procedure of corrigendum? [[Insinuations all the time. What's that got to do with TVN...]] [[Voice from the hall: I was summoned...]] Here you go - also a minute. I'm just telling you that there will be no correction to be made so that there are no understatements. You're welcome. One minute. [[I, after the speech by the Member, may yet find myself having to refer.]] Member of the Commission, allow me to... But I didn't give you the floor, sir. Madam President, let me say that from the decision on who and in what order will be taking the floor, this is the marshal. Do you want to be corrected? You're welcome. No? Thank you very much. [[Of course I do.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u331	High Izbo! In corrigendum mode. The Member seems to have misunderstood my statement. [[Voice from the room: He is not alone that he did not understand.]] Your statement in corrigendum mode was such a dot over and... [[But these are facts.]] ...that it wasn't substantive and balanced remarks, but, sorry for the colloquialism, it was foaming. Mr. President, did you apologize to 52 journalists being eavesdropped... [[Eavesdropping 52? What are you saying? One, and that's what Minister Kaminski knows.]] ...against all the rules and against all the decency? Did you apologize to Sumlinski's editor... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[It's a lie.]] Your marshal, you'd like to intervene. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u332	Mr... and Mrs... I will no longer speak on the issue of correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u333	Did you apologize to the editor of Sumlinski? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because you were tearing up here about breaking attorney-client privilege, and someone broke attorney-client privilege by eavesdropping on Sumlinski's editor leading the conversation with his attorneys. [[52, how can you lie like that?]] It's just... [[He was familiar with Kaminski.]] ...a violation of all principles of decency, not to mention the basic standards of democracy, which has been taking place in constant rhythm for the entire eight years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] your governments. [[A lie on a lie, no facts.]] Not without a Cosser, I've chosen the examples I've chosen... [[You're lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u334	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u335	...from the first years... [[You're lying.]] ...your governments and your last.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u336	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u337	Eight years of continuous... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] ...an unstoppable just breaking...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u338	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u339	...right. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] [[It's a lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u340	I'll give you a heads-up... [[To confess the run for those lies. Confession.]] ...that if it takes the form that it is just now - it is mostly to the Member who sits in front of me... [[I was talking about facts, Marshal.]] ...then I won't give the floor to correct it. And now the Member, also in the mode of correction, is also a minute. Mr Szymański Tomasz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Regarding the speech made by the Member who referred to my name, claiming that there was nothing in my speech concerning this law. Well, it's as if you've been listening, not constantly interfering with your remarks, which have absolutely no connection to this bill, so you've heard clearly... [[Words, words, words, sir.]] [[Those aren't words...]] ...what my opinions on this bill were. In a clear, substantive way, I have justified that this law at this stage of implementation will in no way serve the special services in order to optimally secure the events that are ahead of us. In addition, I have clearly noted that you are doubling the current system that operates at the government security centre... [[Government Security Center - that's what this organ is called.]] ...who cooperates with the Homeland Security Agency and cooperates with the Homeland Security Agency. You have no amount of time, no possibility, no cameras to implement it, to make it work. You don't have time to coordinate, practice, test. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm doing. And besides, you're accusing us of an obvious lie, and you're lying, saying that during the Civic Platform, journalists were being eavesdropped. [[52.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u342	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u343	Evidently... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] ...a lie. [[Applause]] [[Their names are known.]] From the state audit, I think.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Pampuch... Sorry, Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club. I think that's impressive, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u345	Art. The 12th Act requires the installation of temporary base stations or other temporary elements of telecommunications infrastructure in order to improve the security of mass events. This obligation applies to telecommunications operators, without indicating whether this applies to any telecommunications operator or, for example, mobile telecommunications operators, without indicating whether this applies to local or national operators. It is referred to in the article. Article 179 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Telecommunications law does not require operators to install any new equipment but only the proper operation of the equipment owned. How will telecom operators be identified under the obligation of radio communications installations in connection with the organisation of mass events? Who will bear the costs of these installations? Second thing, Minister. I would ask you to consider the interests of people who organize big events and concerts for hard-earned private money. I'm talking about the deadline for canceling the mass event. In many cases it is an investment of the entire life and the cancellation of such an event very shortly before it starts can cause some bankruptcy of these organisers. I'm not talking about demonstrations. I'm talking about regular concerts, regular big events that are subject to a mass event. This term, and I say it from practice, is absolutely too short, and I'm afraid we're gonna lose companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u346	Thank you very much. The question was asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club. And now the question will be asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u347	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! When you read one by one the various provisions of this law, it comes to mind only one question: Why haven't such laws been in force for many years? Why? Many have already been placed, among others. in the Minister's statement, why. We can only guess. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about solutions for recording prepaid phones. Are the solutions set out in the Act also applicable to those cards that are no longer registered today and which are already online, or only to those newly sold which will only be included in the network and for which these services will start to be provided? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, the Kukiz Club15, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have a question about the article. 6, which states that, in order to carry out the task, the Head of the ABW, while respecting the requirements for the protection of information, may, in an obvious and very appropriate manner, collect information on persons suspected of terrorist activities, persons who are close to such organisations. It is only our last audit, when you, Minister, spoke about the surveillance of the marches of independence, many marches of the cursed soldiers, NSZ, marches organized by Radio Maryja and Law and Justice, I think we should have the opportunity in the future to avoid such things. If we write that we can monitor people who are reasonably suspected of such a cause, in my opinion in the future of the departmental children, the living room may again observe patriotic organizations, patriotic marches. After all, we as the Independence March have our guardianship of the Independence March, where we train young people in defence, in medical matters, in securing the crowds, but for the other side in the future, it can already be pure terrorism. I have a question: Are there mechanisms that will eliminate such pathologies in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u350	Thank you very much. Please, another question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You have a problem not only with freedom, but also with truthfulness. I checked my seym transcript. Seven days ago, you said from this place that after the Smolensk crash, the Homeland Security Office did not take any operational action to determine the circumstances and causes of the disaster. It so happens that in recent days the annual reports for the years 2010 and 2015 have disappeared from the Internal Security Agency. I'm lucky to have them in the paper version. It is mentioned here that less than 2 hours after the disaster in CAT, a meeting took place with the participation of the secretaries, Undersecretaries of State at the MMA, with the participation of the heads of the ABW, SKW, SWW, AW. The list of activities of the Internal Security Agency is on several pages, including the fact that on the day of the disaster the head of the ABW sent experts to Smolensk who took part in the on-the-spot activities on 10 and 16 April with the prosecutors of the military prosecutor's office. You said the facts didn't happen. The annual reports from Homeland Security are gone. I have a question: What happened to these reports? Why have you misled the Sejm on such an important matter? Finally, the letter - respect for Minister Sasin - dated 6 July 2010, in which Minister Sasin, as Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic, thanks Mr Bondaryk, Head of the ABW, for all the help he had the honour of meeting in those... [[Innate courtesy of Minister Sasina, sir.]] ...difficulty for all days after April 10th, 2010. [[Applause]] Hence the question: Why have you misled the High House? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u352	Thank you. Mr... [[Mr President, on what subject?]] [[That's what this speech is about.]] [[No, it's a credibility test, you know?]] [[It's just foaming.]] ... Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club. Please ask me to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The purpose of implementing this law, the Anti-Terrorism Act, is unambiguous: ensuring maximum security for Polish society. Poles in Poland must feel safe, must be safe. And ensuring security is the government's job, and it's the government's job to do it. That's why it's the bill. Unfortunately, we are living in a time of permanent terrorist attacks, uncontrolled emigration of the population, or actually its influx from Africa and the Middle East. Each European country is implementing into its legal system a solution that gives services tools and the best possible protection for their citizens. This is what happens in Western European countries, and that is what we must do. I think that most Polish citizens want the Polish authorities to strengthen instruments that will allow faster diagnosis and, of course, eliminate the potential threat. On the other hand, listening to the voices of the opposition, I get the impression that you live in total abstraction, you live in a matrix, and you do not see the reality surrounding us, in which these terrorist attacks are becoming more and more frequent and bring more and more harvest. [[If you looked at us, you'd know we don't live in a matrix.]] I suggest you log out of Facebook, log out of Twitter - I'm just talking to my colleagues sitting down [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the Seym hall - and go down to Polish soil. [[Vice versa.]] I propose cooperation in this area. I'm finishing with a question for the Minister. The opposition claims that this law will limit the essence of freedom and civil rights. I ask you to answer the question: Is this true? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u355	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The State of Law and Justice assures all of us here and the citizens that this law is nothing in terms of threats that the State will use it as intended, that it is needed, etc. I must say, after what you did in 2005 and 2007... [[What were we doing?]] I don't think anybody's gonna believe that these laws are gonna be used as intended. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Contacts, sir. What have we been doing?]] Madame, please calm down. [[What were we doing?]] Don't worry, you'll be able to speak up. Please don't disturb me. [[We're asking you specifically, no foaming.]] I'm going back to the case. After you handled our country's affairs, after what you did in the years 2005-2007... [[But what? What were we doing?]] ...no one in their right mind will believe that the provisions of this law will be used as intended. [[Let's have a show.]] [[We're asking for a small example, at least one.]] These provisions are formulated in such a way as to cover these issues so widely that there is no way to control you, and therefore they pose a very important threat to our citizens' freedom. I would also like to ask a substantive question about the details that are contained in this law. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] This first part concerned the most important issues, and now I will move on to the issues that are at the heart of the bill. So the question is about penetration tests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[There is no time, sir. Time's up.]] Gentlemen of Ministers! These tests are to be conducted in such a way that the ABW will actually enter the entire network. [[Time. Your marshal is so gracious.]] Why isn't the local government sphere separated from the private computer sphere, which is also on these networks? Secondly, why do you need online access to all databases that are in the resources of all offices, the entire state administration? Why do you need online access to this data? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, sir, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u356	Thank you, sir. In view of the fact that, this time, not the Member, only the marshal was called by Mrs Paluch, please note, Mrs Paluch, that, too, when you speak, you ask for peace and quiet, and you do not fully respect this rule. [[Is that for me?]] And besides, I give this time equally to everyone without taking anybody's vote. You've crossed it too, so please pay attention to it during the procession. [[I didn't get any extra time, Marshal.]] Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u357	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, most of the solutions adopted in the Anti-Terrorism Act undermine citizens' freedom, the right to protection of information. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Surely the law and the instrumentarium provided for by it in the hands of the authorities for the surveillance of citizens are not commensurate with the existing terrorist threat in Poland. [[How do you know?]] I have specific questions. First question. Why does the law, when introducing the concept of a terrorist event, not apply to cyberspace at all? Second question. In the catalogue of terrorist events - point X (5) - there is a record: participation of Polish citizens in chats and online forums on radical Muslim sites. How can such citizen activity be monitored? What technical means will be used to record and block such activities? There is also a question of why it is possible to block the information system. How is this supposed to guarantee security? This is pointless, in my view, because people planning terrorist activities do not go on social networks such as: Facebook, so it doesn't limit, and it doesn't eliminate terrorism in any way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And how do you know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I ask a question about the draft law, I would like to refer to the words that have been written here about the security that we had before, and we have now, which we have served in the times of Law and Justice. I would like to say that when the Civic Platform in 2012 organized the arrival of many millions of football fans in Poland on Euro 2012, it did not have to violate the article. 57 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland concerning the principles of freedom of assembly. [[And what year was that?]] Now that we are organising a two-day NATO summit, unfortunately, we must ban the free assembly these days, fearing that there may be unexpected consequences and violations in the event of such spontaneous, free assembly. That's the reference. When we do not break any articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and can take care of security in our country, unfortunately this concern occurs in you. In your project, you put the head of the ABW in a clearly privileged position vis-à-vis other interested parties on blocking access to data or services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is the head of the ABW who is to inform the administrator of the electronic system immediately of the content of the final proceedings of the court. I have a question: Why didn't you provide the head of the ABW, the administrator of the IT system and the person whose data could be blocked, a level playing field when it comes to obtaining information about court orders? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u360	Thank you very much. That was the last question, and this is how we have exhausted the list of MEPs. Mr Maciej Wąsik will now speak at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you all for the questions that have come up. Often they were substantive. [[Not all of them.]] To begin with, I will answer the first question, Mr Meysztowicz. We support Poland, especially Poland, and do not intend to change our fan preferences. But I would really like to say this: this bill is not being processed quickly. Work on the bill began very, very long time ago. I have here an announcement informing you of the work on this bill. Plans to build such a law, the introduction of such a law were already in 2008. Governments, at the beginning of Donald Tusk, and then Eve Kopacz, worked, only that they did not produce any product. [[Applause]] Nevertheless, there were teams who were trying to make something. You didn't spend the final product. [[We didn't spend limps.]] I will say one more thing, Madame, especially to you. It's much better to discuss the bill when you read it, definitely. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[And vice versa, Minister.]] So that I thank those Members who have read this law who have asked substantive questions. I will try, if I haven't remembered or written down all my questions, to answer all your doubts in the course of the committee's work, to all your questions. I do not exclude that we will take into account your comments, which often seem sensible and reasonable, in the spirit of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, many doubts have been raised by the operational control of foreigners carried out in a manner ordered by the head of the ABW. We believe that this is one of the most important provisions of this law, which gives the head of the ABW a real impact on Poland's security. That is not enough, I would like to quote the exact provision of the law, which was here in 2014, which went all the way through the legislative process, which has all the opinions both on compliance with European law and on compliance with the Polish constitution. This is the article of the Act on the ABW, which was proceded during the Civic Platform, for Minister Sienkiewicz. This bill would have been passed if it hadn't been for the tape scandal that trashed the government. Operational control can be ordered - this is an art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of this law - court, by order, at the written request of the Head of the ABW, after obtaining the written consent of the Prosecutor General, where the control is to be applied to the citizen of the Republic of Poland. Everything is correct, but there is also point 2: the head of the ABW shall manage this check in cases other than those referred to in point 1. You gave, you offered the opportunity to conduct operational control of foreigners without any time limit... [[And was it accepted?]] [[That's two things to think about.]] ...in all matters. That is why I do not accept your criticism in this regard. I don't accept completely, because you've seen such a necessity, such a need, and now you're doing obstruction. [[Applause]] [[Get to the point, Minister. I don't think the Minister's read his project.]] Many doubts were raised about the possibility of blocking content on the Internet. [[The recipe, the records are in the wills.]] I would like to say here that these regulations need to be read very precisely. The first thing is, the court is in charge of blocking. There's a court guarantee. The second thing is, we don't block portals, sites or social networks, we block certain content... [[On these portals.]] ...e.g. on the forums used by terrorists, on the websites where there's training, how to build a bomb or how to carry out a terrorist attack. [[But they like it.]] And we believe that restricting Internet access to such content with the consent of the court is necessary. Besides, these are not regulations that, for example, Western Europe has no acceptance. Such legislation also enters into force, in principle, throughout Europe. [[That'll be 100% with the court's prior consent? In any case?]] 100% with the court's permission. There's an urgent mode... [[Prior? Are you sure about the previous one?]] ... Telling me to get the next one's consent... [[Exactly.]] ...but it's exactly the same as operating control, which is now in force and in force in your day. [[That's not true, that's not true.]] Exactly the same, exactly the same. [[That's a lie.]] [[Oh, Member, the truth sometimes hurts.]] We don't want to take out Homeland Security. There is no Mrs Radziszewska because I would like to answer her questions, but she is clearly not interested in answering this question. [[He'll read it in the minutes.]] [[He'll read it later.]] We're giving the head of Homeland Security and Homeland Security more clearance. You have to read the bill wisely and know what's going on. [[You're already going through all the boundaries, Minister.]] Marshal, I ask that I be able to answer the questions, not the Member who is sitting there. [[Then don't be rude.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u362	Minister, as you engage in discussions with the Members in the Chamber, these are the consequences. [[Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers Mariusz Kaminski: Answers questions.]] You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I would like to say that the definition of terrorist offences is very precise in the Polish Criminal Code. It is not possible to make a mistake here, so that the actions or increased powers of the ABW in some spheres will be in very precise cases. The penal codec defines - we, of course, add, as I have said, in accordance with certain obligations in connection with the lynx convention, two crimes: participation in training of a terrorist nature and crossing borders for the purpose of organizing terrorist activities. It's a prepaid issue. This is a thing, as I said in my first speech, which we did not run into ourselves. All civilised Europe recognises that for security reasons communication should be limited through anonymous prepaids. Someone says servants have methods. Yes, the service has methods to determine certain things, but this way it happens much more effectively, much more efficiently. I am convinced that the number of false bombings at a time when we will have limited access to prepaids will be much less. It's not just a question of false bomb alarms. This is a matter of real communication between criminals, which is in some way difficult to identify by the service. The services can, but often time is decisive here. Time is crucial and can be crucial. On the issue of banking law, I would like to point out to Mr Wójcikowski that access to certain bank secrets with the permission of the court - which I will confirm once again: with the permission of the court - is exactly the same as the current one, which currently holds the CBA. The ABW receives it not only for the prosecution of terrorist offences but for all its tasks under the entire Article. 5. In fact, it was an oversight, a legislative oversight that the ABW had not yet had these powers. I stress once again: this is under the democratic control of the court. [[Next.]] Cancel mass event and public assembly. I would like to stress that this only occurs in certain cases and that this is not a compulsory appeal, but an opportunity, after the President of the Council of Ministers has introduced a third or fourth degree of terrorist threat. The fourth degree was introduced in Brussels after the bombing, right? This is a really high threat. This is intended to save lives or human health. Perhaps it is appropriate to discuss whether the court should not speak very quickly in this case if an appeal is brought. We're open to it, we think it's going in the right direction. Yes, the organisers should have the right to appeal this decision to the court and have the opportunity to be judged in this case before the party. [[During the party.]] I'm not talking about... I'm not gonna operate on any of the threats that come up at some point, but these situations can be predicted. Back to the security tests on the electronics systems, not computers, not phones, just... [[Definitions. According to the definition, it's a computer and a phone.]] ...the ICT systems, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is much better to talk about it when you read all the regulations, because it is said that the head of the ABW agrees on the plan of these actions... [[And off schedule, too.]] ...and informs the subject where this test will be conducted. It's gonna be tests by public institutions, it's gonna be tests by banks, critical infrastructure... [[Except for the plan, too.]] ...only and exclusively. It is not to surprise the bank and steal the data - and if the ABW owns any data in this way, it will have to destroy the data; it is also mentioned by the law, it gives this guarantee - but it is about checking whether the system is vulnerable to attack, e.g. The banking system where our money is, so that no one can detect that money, so that no one can dismantle the banking system in the country. I'm gonna take a look at the notes, trying to pick up those questions that I'm able to group up. The issue of solutions in Europe. Let me put it this way: the whole of Europe is introducing anti-terrorist solutions, the whole of Europe. Prepaids in Spain were eliminated after the Madrid Metro bombing, i.e. anonymous prepaids. We prefer to do it now, definitely before this kind of action, because perhaps such events will succeed, especially on a mass scale, avoid. This is the intention of the government, this is the intention of the service to have instruments to protect security. You have pointed out that a lot of legislation does not apply to Polish citizens. Yes, because there we see a terrorist threat, not here, on the spot, among Poles, although different things can happen. Let me put it this way: the experience of the Western world indicates that we can talk about a serious threat from people of Arab nationality, but they also live in Brussels, they also live in Paris, and let us remember that we have the Schengen area. They are getting closer to the Polish borders, terrorists. Finally, I would like to say that I am actually imagining a situation in which such a law passes without opposition in the Sejm. And I wish there was never a situation like this, because the French law passed basically without any opposition. You know why. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I guess she was good.]] Thank you very much, Minister, for answering my questions. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, and in the event that this proposal had not been taken into account, a proposal to refer the draft law also to the Commission for Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies. Oh, what a long name. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. The discussion is closed at this point. We move on to the next item, and this is item 17 of the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws (print No 513). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Jasiński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u363	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a government bill amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws contained in print no. 513. The proposed law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws serves to apply the Union Customs Code established by Regulation No 952 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 and the provisions implementing its provisions. The new Union customs rules shall apply from 1 May 2016. However, they require the adaptation of national legislation, which was only possible after the publication by the European Union of parts of the rules implementing the EU Customs Code in March this year. The draft amendment to the Customs Law presented to the High House is an important element of this adjustment. High Izbo! The EU Customs Code has replaced the Community Customs Code, which has been in force for more than 20 years, based on the integration of customs procedures applied separately by individual Member States in the 1980s. Since the entry into force of the Community Customs Code has been amended several times and significantly to address certain problems, including: protecting good faith or taking into account security requirements and following major changes in both EU and international legislation. In 2011, it was decided to transform the modernised customs code into the Union Customs Code. The main objective of the Union Customs Code being implemented is to improve the application of customs rules in the European Union and to computerise customs operations. The achievement of this basic objective should ensure, first, that legal trade and combating fraud are facilitated by the definition of simple and economically justified customs procedures and, second, that a balance is struck between the duty of customs authorities to ensure the correct application of customs rules and the right of traders to fair treatment, thirdly, harmonised and harmonised application of customs controls by the Member States of the Union in order to ensure an equivalent level of controls throughout the Union, so as to prevent conduct that distorts competition, fourthly, the same facilitation for traders in all Member States mainly by making the information and communication systems used for handling customs operations available, fifthly giving customs authorities a leading role in the supply chain due to their participation in monitoring and management of international trade. High Izbo! In accordance with the standard set out in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has the so-called "Union'. exclusive competence in the area of customs union, which means that only the European Union can constitute law and adopt legally binding acts in this area. Member States may do so only under the authority of the Union or for the purpose of implementing Union acts. This is what the Republic of Poland does in the Customs Law Act. The provisions of this law are complementary to EU customs legislation and therefore the substance of the draft amendment to customs legislation submitted to the High House is to ensure the application of the EU Customs Code and its implementing rules. Customs law in force is amended by adapting the names of the customs authorities to the Union Customs Code, replacing the provisions of the Community Customs Code established by the relevant provisions of the Union Customs Code, repealing national provisions incompatible with the new arrangements contained in the Union Customs Code and introducing new arrangements for the implementation of Union Customs Regulations. The substantive amendments to the Customs Law introduced by this Act also include provisions concerning customs procedures. Until now, Section IV of the Tax Order applies mutatis mutandis to customs proceedings, taking into account the changes resulting from customs legislation. Proposed in the new wording of the Article. 73. 1 Customs Law The concept is to significantly restrict the application of the Tax Order to customs proceedings. The need to limit the application to customs of the provisions of the Act is due both to the establishment at Union level of detailed procedural rules and to the views of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is the position of uniform application of customs law in the customs territory of the European Union. The powers of legal entities directly conferred by Union law in individual Member States would be different if the concepts and deadlines of Union law were defined in national legal orders. It should be added that changes in customs procedures are also expected by traders who thus receive a much simpler, tailored to the specifics of trade in goods and to a large extent harmonised set of rules for handling customs before customs authorities throughout the Union's customs territory. Further important changes requiring attention are the introduction of a statutory provision giving rise to the authorisation of use of the TIR procedure and the authorisation to simplify the acceptance of goods under that procedure (Article). 17 (a) and the introduction of a simplified way of regulating the situation of goods in the case of minor smuggling offences. According to the proposed solution, the perpetrator of the offence after the adoption of the criminal mandate will be informed by the customs authority of the possibility of renunciation of the illegally introduced goods to the Treasury. Where tobacco products and medicinal products are approved in this way, and under certain conditions alcoholic beverages and cosmetics, in accordance with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 5 Customs laws will be destroyed without the need for a long-term procedure for the court to rule on the forfeiture of goods in favour of the Treasury. The draft law on the amendment of the Customs Law and certain other laws amends, in addition to the Customs Law, 21 other laws, including the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Excise Tax Act or the Customs Service Act. Amendments to these laws are, in principle, adapted to customs legislation. In view of the interest of entrepreneurs, I would like to draw attention to the change in the Trade Tax Act introducing joint and several liability for direct representatives within the meaning of customs rules, i.e. those acting on behalf of and for the benefit of importers. In principle, when imported goods are covered by certain simplified procedures, importers have the right to settle VAT directly in a tax return without having to pay it to the customs office, which means settlement without financial involvement. Such a privilege should be enjoyed by taxable persons who are authorised to use simplified procedures, as this is in principle a privilege addressed to reliable importers verified on the basis of objective criteria. In cases where imports are made using the direct representative's licence, most often the customs agency, the represented entities are not subject to verification, inter alia. in terms of solvency, as is the case with the holder of the said licence. The statistics show that more than twice as many customs declarations in simplified procedures are made to importers benefiting from VAT clearance in declarations by direct representatives - in relation to those made by importers themselves. This means that the condition for the exercise of this right by the entity verified as reliable is not fulfilled in respect of most operations using the possibility of clearing VAT in the declaration. The introduction of joint and several liability of direct representatives, where the taxable importer does not apply for such authorisation, in fact leads to a levelling of the situation in which the indirect agent currently has co-accounting for VAT, and provides mechanisms to safeguard the interests of the State budget, without causing undue burden on economic operators. I would like to stress that the solution put in place will in no way change the approach to clearing by importers holding simplified procedures, even if they benefit from the institutions of direct representation. However, this change will contribute to a clear definition of the rules in which cases joint and several liability for unpaid tax is to be borne. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! When passing the bill to the High House for consideration, I pay particular attention to the date of its entry into force. The Act should enter into force as soon as possible, as from 1 May this year, i.e. from the date of application of the Union Customs Code, there is no consistency between Union customs law and national customs law. As I mentioned at the outset, the government received published legislation from the European Union implementing the EU Customs Code in March this year, which decided on the way in which the national rules should be adapted. I therefore ask the High House to consider the bill at the optimal time and assure the government that we are ready to participate in the parliamentary work with full commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u364	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And I will ask Mr Łukasz Schreiber to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? [[There it is.]] Oh, there it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice related to the government draft law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws. In fact, everything the Minister has told us makes it possible for us to close the discussion, but I will try to say a few things and not repeat myself. As has been said, on 1 May the Union Customs Code entered into force, replacing the Community Customs Code established by the Council of the European Union Regulation in 1992. The Community Customs Code was established in 2008 as part of the customs reform, but outside its Article. 30 - it was not used due to the lack of implementing rules. In 2011, it was decided to transform the modernised customs code into the EU Customs Code due to the need to implement the changes resulting from the Lisbon Treaty. In this way, the Union Customs Code was established in 2013. The ratio legis of this revision of customs legislation indicates the simplification and acceleration of customs operations as well as the sealing of the entire customs system of the European Union. This is to be achieved through the computerisation of customs turnover in each Member State of the European Union, with the aim of the European Union to move completely away from paper documents for electronic infrastructure based on specialised IT systems. I do not go into these changes, because the general changes and provisions of the EU Customs Code mentioned in the preamble have been discussed by the Minister. There are no very detailed descriptions at this point in time, but I would like and allow myself to draw attention to the benefits resulting from this, also for entrepreneurs, because today the regulations introduced by the EU Customs Code authorise entrepreneurs with status. Additional conditions on which the granting of this status will depend, but also on customs debt and security, are indicated. It is about the possibility of using a reduced security and increasing the expiry of a customs debt. In the case of customs proceedings, there will be harmonisation of the procedures of the customs authorities of the Union in relation to the issuing of decisions. Finally, in the case of simplified procedures, the amendments concern the simplified customs declaration institution and the entry in the register of the declarant, as well as new facilitations such as customs self-service and the fact that the customs authority, at the request of an authorised economic operator of status, may allow certain customs formalities to be carried out by the trader. If we can talk about any inconvenience, it will probably result from complicated procedures related to the legal regime of the transitional period during which Member States will be obliged to adapt their existing customs infrastructure to the requirements of the EU Code. However, the implementation of all the information systems envisaged should allow for the smooth operation of individual institutions to function together as a modern, efficient EU customs system. Probably one of the most important - if not the most important - effects of amending the laws will be simplification of customs procedures. The Act includes the authorisation to use simplified procedures for covering goods under the TIR procedure, which concerns the international carriage of goods. In practice, transit formalities will be reduced to a minimum for reliable entrepreneurs. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft law submitted to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kierwiński will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the Customs Law Act and some other laws, print no. 513. The draft, as has been said, follows the replacement of the Community Customs Code in force for more than 20 years by the EU Customs Code. Thus, the Act implements to Polish customs regulations what is really in force throughout the European Union. I don't think there's gonna be much problem with this bill. Here probably most of the Law and Justice will also be supported by opposition forces. This could be the only success of Law and Justice in the coming days in terms of contacts with the European Union and with the European Commission. We know that the situation between the Polish government and the European Commission is quite tense. Especially in the context of what the Minister said, that these are good solutions, it is worth that other government ministers, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, also assume that what the European Commission is saying is also good for Poland and for our citizens. I am, of course, referring to the opinion of the Venice Commission and this mess around the Constitutional Court, which you have done as Law and Justice, which was done by the government by Prime Minister Szydło. If you think that regulations on economic matters which are adopted by the European Union are good for Poland and Poles, it is worth listening to them in a different way, or at least taking into account what the European Union is talking about. Returning to the project: It assumes a change in 21 other laws, these are customs-related laws. This project certainly facilitates customs procedures for Polish entrepreneurs, but above all entrepreneurs operating on the common European market. It is worth noting that in the last 15 years the value of trade between the European Union and the rest of the world has doubled, and with regard to data from the beginning of 2015, they have shown that the European Union is the main trading partner for about 80 countries. This shows how important it is that these intra-Community regulations, including those relating to customs, should be adopted. As was said, this was also mentioned by a representative of the Law and Justice Club, these solutions are very convenient for our entrepreneurs in many ways. The preamble to the EU Customs Code already stresses that the aim of the new EU law is primarily to facilitate trade and combat fraud by simplifying procedures - it is important - and rapid customs procedures. The need to maintain a balance between the duty of customs authorities to ensure compliance with the rules and the right of traders to fair treatment is also strongly stressed. What is also important in this law and in the whole code which is adopted by the European Union starts to apply in the European Union, in the context of the development of information technologies by 2020, is the elimination of almost entirely paper-based documentation, replacing this documentation with a completely electronic circulation of documents. What delights is the reduction in the number of customs procedures, the introduction of a change in customs declarations, but also greater powers for so-called. authorised economic operators. That's a big advantage of this bill. We, of course, as the Civic Platform Club, are in favour of referring this bill to further work in committee. We will probably make minor amendments there, but in general this proposal seems to us as necessary, as much as possible, in view of the fact that these rules are to apply throughout the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u368	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! The first reading of the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law, as my previous speakers have said, will, I hope, be some preliminary consensus that will allow all of us without major problems to adopt this law and agree that the codification of the Customs Code, even if it comes from the inspiration of the European Union within the common economic area which is the economic union at the moment, is necessary, and the experience of the Community Customs Code so far is not the best, because there were no implementing rules, it did not function as it should. Let us hope that the implementation of the EU Customs Code in all countries of our common EU economic area will really result in those assumptions which my previous speakers mentioned and which are mentioned in the preamble to the EU Customs Code, and the assumptions which are mentioned in the justification for this government draft law amending the Customs Law, will indeed be met, that these assumptions will be met because they aim to help and simplify procedures for Polish entrepreneurs, not only Polish entrepreneurs, for EU entrepreneurs. This will be a tool that will certainly improve the competitiveness of EU economic operators vis-à-vis the rest of the world. Let us hope that this will also eliminate the nuisance of customs rules within the Community, which were not entirely uniform. This has often given our entrepreneurs time to implement these rules in detail, not to focus on combating competition from outside the Union. We are pleased that by 2020 the electronic form will dominate the paper form completely, i.e. the paper form, hopefully, will disappear. We are pleased that honest entrepreneurs will have special facilitations, special procedures, they will simply be treated as honest entrepreneurs, not as suspicious smugglers. It would be good to apply this good tradition to as many entrepreneurs as possible, because in the vast majority entrepreneurs are honest, hardworking and want to multiply their assets in a fair way. The state should, by means of such instruments, assist them in this honest work and in these honest business. We will always support such steps. Similarly, I would like to ask you to harmonise customs controls - it will also serve the common economic area, the European Economic Area, in the long term. We would like future negotiations to expand the common economic area, for example. Like the Free Trade Treaty with the United States... or in the future, this idea of free trade is likely to be extended to other possible economic areas, so that these elements of common customs law will not only concern the Union itself. Why not extend these elements to cooperation with the United States or other developed OECD countries? I would like a common customs law for all OECD countries and a common commercial area, because it would certainly increase the efficiency of the economy on a global scale and developed countries could certainly do even better, businesses within the OECD community, operate and develop. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there will be a difficult transition period, because certainly until there is a fully functioning IT system, until it is fully absorbed by Poland, not only by Poland, by companies, there will be difficulties and there will be adjustments. I ask the government to pay particular attention when implementing this law to the implementation of IT solutions, because in the past, as far as many laws are concerned, we have just had problems with the correct implementation of IT systems in terms of solutions [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the economy. In conclusion, Kukiz15 will support this law and request that it be transferred to the relevant Sejm committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u370	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the club Moderna a position concerning the draft law from print no. 513 on the amendment of the Customs Law Act and some other laws. Polish customs law changed very significantly at the time of Poland's accession to the European Union on 1 May 2004, which is linked to Poland's accession to the customs union created by the Member States of the Union. The Customs Code so far in force and all implementing regulations issued pursuant to it have ceased to apply. The Customs Union is the basis of the European Union. In order to ensure the free movement of goods at the initiative of the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and the European Commission, a law is being established laying down the rules for the functioning of the customs union. Such a document is the EU Customs Code. With its establishment, the earlier provisions of the European Community, such as the Community Customs Code and its complementary Regulations, have ceased to apply. The main political objective of the Union Customs Code is to improve the functioning of the customs union as a whole through uniform application of customs rules throughout the customs territory of the European Union and by the national customs services of the Member States. The EU Customs Code provides for a number of changes in Polish legislation which should be adapted to the law in force within the European Union, for example in matters of customs debt and security, the status of authorised economic operator or the storage of goods. Furthermore, any simplification of the customs process provided for in the Code, including centralised clearance and self-service, is extremely important. The purpose of the amendments to Customs Law and other laws notified in print No 513 is to align the provisions in force in our country with those in force in the European Union. Therefore, part of the provisions introduces cosmetic changes, replacing the word. The word "Union" and some of it goes further in adapting Polish law to the EU Customs Code. The entry into force of the draft law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws will not result in a reduction in revenue and will not result in an increase in expenditure in the public finance sector, including in the budget of the state and local government. National regulation involves reducing excessive administrative tasks in certain areas and shifting forces and measures to improve the efficiency of audit powers for authorised entrepreneurs or introducing new solutions, in particular for centralised clearance. The efficiency and cost of activities of tax administrations will not change. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning, because this is a very rare case, it is very rare for the current government that the bill has been consulted with stakeholders who have raised a number of concerns about it. The parties replied to the doubts. Ladies and gentlemen, if each law were so widely consulted with stakeholders, perhaps the European Commission would not have implemented the rule of law procedure for our country. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern Club at first reading, I propose that the project be directed to committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u372	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the draft Customs Law Act and some other laws, print no. 513. The draft law lays down the rules for the implementation and application of the Union Customs Code established by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Code entered into force on 30 October 2013 and is applicable from 1 May 2013. The main objective of the Union Customs Code is to improve the functioning of the customs union as a whole. It is the uniform application of customs rules throughout the Union by the national customs services of the Member States. The Union Customs Code focuses on the designation of strategic directions and objectives in customs law. Code regulations will be applied in Polish almost directly. The Code also applies the Commission Delegated Regulations and Implementing Regulations which together form a package of the Union Customs Code. One of the most important regulations introduced by the EU Customs Code is the exchange of information in the general application of IT techniques. The exchange of information and its storage and data exchange will take place through electronic data processing techniques to be implemented by the end of 2020. In the end, all customs and commercial transactions will be carried out electronically. This will be done through a special platform of electronic customs services, will of course be with an honored electronic signature, the qualified whether on a trusted ePUAP profile, but also with an electronic signature verified by the Customs Service itself certificate. The draft law introducing the EU Customs Code amends our Customs Law, as well as 20 other laws. On the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Code sets out names and definitions by harmonising their content in all legal provisions. The Code introduces numerous simplifications in customs procedures and generally limits their number. One of the most important effects of the amended legislation will be the simplification of customs procedures. The law includes the authorisation to use simplified procedures for covering goods under the TIR procedure. In the case of reliable entrepreneurs, all formalities will be significantly reduced. With regard to authorised economic operators, the Code indicates additional conditions on which the granting of the status of authorised economic operator will depend and, what is important, extends the catalogue of benefits available only to holders of the status of authorised economic operator. An authorised entrepreneur will be able to do this, among others. the provision of services of a customs representative in a Member State other than that in which he is established shall be entitled to a reduced comprehensive security, shall be granted a centralised clearance and a so-called clearance. customs self-service. In addition, the Customs Code amends the application of simplifications to customs declarations, e.g. the customs declaration may also be lodged in the form of an entry in the register kept by the declarant. A new simplification under EU law is also the already mentioned centralised clearance and customs self-service. The nature of the centralised check-in shall consist of the possibility of customs declaration of goods at the customs office competent for the place of establishment of the declarant, which shall be presented at another customs office. With regard to customs self-service, it is simply possible for certain activities to be carried out by the trader himself in order to determine the amount and control under customs supervision. Today's draft law introduces detailed provisions of the EU Customs Code. The material is complex and extensive. Introducing it should have a positive impact on the competitiveness of businesses that operate in the common market under conditions [[♪ The bell ♪]] simplification of electronic customs procedures and unification of law in all Member States. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of transferring the project to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u374	Thank you, Member. Five Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask briefly one question, because today we are discussing legislation that we need to adapt to European regulations. The EU Customs Code, to which we align our customs law today, is in Article. 51 that, for customs purposes, the person concerned shall keep documents and information for a period of at least three years. Any medium available and accepted by the customs authorities shall be permitted for this purpose. However, in today's bill, the period of storage of documentation for customs controls is 5 years. I wanted to ask you to justify the inconsistency of this provision with EU law. Is it acceptable to modify the EU's solution in this respect, solutions that should be directly applicable? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u376	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! My question concerns the trade agreement that has been negotiated by the European Union for a long time, the trade treaty with the United States, which is loud. Whether there are changes to European law, customs law, which we are introducing - will there be any specific elements that will need to be made after the adoption of this treaty perhaps next year, perhaps it is not known when... What will be the specific implementation of this agreement in our Polish Customs Law, which we are now adopting in the context of uniform EU law as regards customs matters? Are there any aspects that need to be changed? How will the Free Trade Treaty with the United States, between the European Union and the United States, affect the changes in the customs legislation that we are adopting today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u378	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This EU Customs Code introduces such a legal principle - that is the legal principle - that all customs and trade transactions in all Member States of the Union are to be carried out electronically, and for this purpose a fairly long transitional period has been applied to the application of this right, because by the end of 2020. However, we are aware that the scope of the work is extensive and, of course, uniform for all EU countries, and with this computerisation of the processes we have, as usual, some delays, irregularities, always something is wrong there. I therefore ask: How will this principle of full mandatory ITisation of customs processes be implemented? Is there a implementation plan, a schedule? Will IT be run by the staff of the Ministry, or maybe by a civil company, as in the case of ICT systems in the tax system? What will the financing of this process look like? What's it going to be? Will this be on the basis of a reduction in our contribution to the general budget of the European Union or in some other way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u380	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u381	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In principle, in addition to Mrs Tokarska's question, I will say that the full computerisation of customs offices is due to end in 2020. Question: "Is there any chance that it will end sooner?" How do you predict when such complete computerisation is possible and really replacing paper documents with electronic documents? Because regardless of the advantages that this law will bring, and the application of the code it implements, we will really wait until 2020 to take advantage of these solutions. So maybe there's a chance we could finish early. Question: "What do you think of the Minister?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u382	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Just a quick question. In the opinion of the Ministry, will these solutions, which we are now introducing into Polish law, taken from the EU, reduce the illegal movement of goods? This is indeed very important because we all know how much damage the Treasury suffers as a result of the illegal movement of goods between the EU customs territory and countries outside the Union. And will these measures be effective as a result of the implementation of these rules in the ministry's assessment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u384	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Jasiński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u385	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all of you very much for welcoming this project, for all of these votes. I have noted the terms that were most common in the Chamber today: simplification of procedures, customs self-service, computerisation, the dominance of electronic form, and this was the most, the KIR procedures to a minimum - these are quotes from your statements. Thank you so much for accepting this project. I would also like to thank Mr Kukiz15 for his request to implement IT systems, and you have also paid the most attention to these questions, for which I warmly thank you. I answer in order, by combining three of your questions, you also referred to each other. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the question made by the Member concerning this three-year period that you have found in EU law and this proposal in Customs Law according to the government proposal, it should be noted that the provisions of Union law governing the time limit for the storage of documents for customs controls, i.e. both applicable until 1 May 2016 Article. 16 of the Community Customs Code and of the current Article. 51 of the Union Customs Code, indicate a period of 3 years as a minimum period for the storage of documents. This is demonstrated by the wording used in these provisions:. not less than 3 years - that is to say in the article. 16 of the Community Customs Code, and at least 3 years, in Article. 51 of the Union Customs Code. Thus, the said provisions do not indicate a period of 3 years as closed and deadline. Having regard to the above, in its Article, The 9th Customs Law states that we propose a period of 5 years to store documents and information for customs control purposes. This period of 5 years shall be in accordance with the 5-year limitation period for tax obligations laid down in Article. 70 Tax Order. A period of 5 years to store documents and information for customs controls allows the customs authority to carry out customs controls and proceedings concerning, inter alia, the determination of tax obligations within a period of not less than the statutory limitation period of those obligations. The second question, Mr Kukiz,15, will allow me to answer this question very broadly in writing. The third, fourth and fifth questions will allow me to connect. You are asking about this cezura 2020 if we are able to keep this term. The bill itself is devoted to simplification through computerisation. Ladies and gentlemen, already in Poland 100% Customs declarations in the transport, transit and export of goods shall be accepted and operated electronically, hence this will only be an addition to the completion of customs procedures. You're also asking about the costs. This is estimated at 160 million, from EU funds and from the budget. We plan to end this at the turn of 2018 and 2019, so before the time. The State here also referred to the solutions resulting from the Act on Informationization of Tax Administrations, Tax Control and Customs. Most likely, this formula will also be used for computerization resulting from this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u386	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Customs Law and certain other laws contained in print No 513 to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 20 June 2016. We proceed to the 18th item of the agenda... Since there is no rapporteur, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 29 hours 16 min 35]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws (print No 476). I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! As a representative of the group of Members of the applicants, I am pleased to present to you a draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, Parliamentary Printing No 476. The draft Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws removes first of all interpretation, legal and editorial doubts regarding the provisions contained in the Act of 20 February 2015 on Renewable Energy Sources, introduces tools for controlling the energy mix, separates the role of prosumer from the energy producer and extends the definition of prosumer. I would like to present to you the fundamental changes in the RES system. This is the introduction of transparent rules for the generation and use of electricity from RES for own use in micro-installations, provided that such actions are not directed towards achieving profits, but only directly to meeting their own energy needs. We also propose reducing information obligations on the part of energy producers in micro-installations. Another thing that will change is the abolition of manufacturers who failed to fulfil their information obligations before the Act came into force. We would also like to guarantee consumer rights to prosumers. We envisage changing the definition of RES installation and introducing a new definition of hybrid RES installation. Changes in the auction support system are also part of the change in the RES installation in the allocation of auctions into technological baskets and the promotion of technologies that generate energy in a stable and predictable manner. We want to introduce opportunities for more efficient use of locally available biomass resources. We want to eliminate the unnecessary elements contained in the statements made by energy producers in RES installations using biomass, biogas, agricultural biogas or bioliquids and eliminate the risk of taking all the support in the situation of generation in the above-mentioned installations of parts of energy based on other fuels. We would like to introduce the possibility of building modern dedicated multi-fuel combustion plants. The amendment will also include details of the issues related to the permissible value of public aid. Instead of the name of the Renewable Energy Settlement Operator, we would like to propose the name of the Settlement Manager SA. We also propose the introduction of the so-called test procedure. the incentive effect for agricultural biogas producers. When it comes to changing the names... We propose, as regards prosumer, that the draft regulation should form the basis for a competitive, safe and sustainable renewable energy market and that the existing competitive rules and the high level of protection of the addressees of the regulation, including consumers, should therefore be strengthened. We propose to waive the support mechanism for prosumers based on the distribution of public aid. Prosumers are end-users who are simultaneously micro-producers producing electricity for their own use. We would like to extend the definition of prosumer, including local self-government units, organisations, religious unions, other end-users, producing energy for their own needs. As regards, I ask you, a substantial matter, the withdrawal of the prosumer support mechanism - it is based on the distribution of public aid - it is precisely that, as this mechanism is based on the distribution of public aid, we propose a completely different settlement and withdrawal from the existing mechanism relating to prosumer settlements. Prosumers are end-users who are simultaneously micro-producers producing electricity for their own use. Such a simple definition of prosumers will lead to the development of this segment of the RES market without having to bear the burden from other end-users. It should be noted that the construction, which was to enter into force, contained in Chapter 4 of the RES Act, consisting of a fixed guaranteed tariff, the value of which amounted to PLN 0.75 per kWh, would entail a disproportionate financial burden, in particular by other end-users. The price of 1 MWh produced in this installation of electricity would amount to PLN 750 at the market price oscillating around PLN 170. At the stage of work on this law, on the RES Act, and the implementing acts for this regulation, we cooperated with the Ministry of Economy and just the Ministry of Economy estimated the annual cost of supporting micro-installations using a fixed guaranteed price of PLN 94 million in the first year for 25% of the volume of 800 MW admitted to this system. This means that the possible level of support for the fixed price guaranteed by regulation would be around PLN 400 million. Hence the change of approach to prosumer support. It is envisaged that the difference between the amount of electricity put into the grid and the amount of electricity collected from that network should be settled in the following way: from 1 to 0,7 in the case of electricity produced in micro-installations with a total installed power of not more than 7 kW, from 1 to 0,5 in the case of electricity produced in micro-installations with a total installed power capacity of more than 7 kW and - the third option - from 1 to 0,35 in the case of electricity produced in micro-installations for which the prosumer used public support for the purchase or installation of micro-installations or parts thereof. As far as this mechanism is concerned, it assumes the possibility for Prosumer to settle the amount of electricity put into the grid and the amount of electricity collected from that network over 365 days. This is the settlement in the form of a discount. At the same time, it is laid down in the legislation that the energy clearance by Prosumer does not constitute an economic activity and is not a service provision or sale within the meaning of the Goods and Services Tax Act. In our novel there is also a definition of micro- and macro-classes of energy. The concept of micro- and macro-class energy is another element of the task of ensuring energy security both nationally and locally. Micro- and macro-classes as civil-law stakeholder agreements consisting of natural persons, legal persons, entities without legal personality, scientific units, R &amp; D units or local self-government units are intended primarily to integrate local environments and resources to build fuel and energy generation facilities or to make more efficient use of locally available energy infrastructure. It is about creating self-sufficient energy areas. In accordance with the added editorial unit in Article. 38a in the draft law, economic activity within a micro- or macro-class of energy may be carried out on the basis of a concession for an entity which coordinates that part of the Joint Undertaking on the basis of a contract with other entities. The appropriate interaction of the electricity distribution network operator with which the micro- or macro-classer intends to cooperate shall be guaranteed by its obligation to conclude a distribution service contract with the applicant for connection to that network on an equal basis where there are technical and economic conditions for connection to the grid and distribution of energy and the applicant for connection to the network meets the conditions for connection to the network. Even if the above conditions are not met, the distribution network operator may refuse to conclude the contract, but the refusal shall be made in writing together with the reasons for it. Such refusal shall be sent to the applicant for the conclusion of a distribution contract and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office shall be informed of the refusal. If there is a dispute in this situation, the President of the URE shall decide on the refusal of the agreement at the request of the party. The President of the URE shall be provided with an additional legal instrument as he may, at the request of one of the parties, issue a provision setting out the conditions for the distribution of energy until the dispute is finally resolved. The proposed revision of the definition of RES installation aims to eliminate the problems raised by investors under the existing definition of one connection point and the generation of electricity or heat from one type of renewable energy source. This definition of RES installation will contribute to the elimination of RES development barriers and will reduce investment costs, which would in some cases be higher if the investment were implemented, taking into account the previous wording of the above definition. In addition, a supplement to this article is proposed. 2 of the RES Act, a dictionary with a definition of a hybrid RES installation, which is understood as a team of at least two RES installations, which differ in the characteristics of the energy supply and which form, as a result of the connection, a consistent electrical and area-wide set providing the customer with permanent access to electricity according to the quality requirements laid down in the provisions of the Energy Law or in a comprehensive agreement concluded with the recipient. Such an installation unit can also be supported by an energy storage facility and then the electricity supplied from it is treated as energy from a renewable energy source. This proposal, combined with further proposals for changes in the auction support system, aims to promote installations which, through the integration of different RES sources, will have greater stability in power generation. As far as the auction system is concerned, it is proposed to introduce technological baskets/groups in order to make the mix of RES more efficient, taking into account current demand and energy security issues. It is about the need to generate energy in a stable and predictable way. In view of the above, the project envisages introducing new rules for determining the maximum amount and value of electricity from renewable energy sources, which can be sold through auctions in the following calendar year by taking into account specific technological mixes. According to the auction project, electricity produced in RES installations is sold separately. First of all, the extent to which the installed electrical capacity is used, regardless of source of origin, greater than 3504 MWh/MW/year. Point 2: Using biodegradable part of industrial and municipal waste, of plant or animal origin, including waste from waste treatment facilities and waste from water treatment and waste water treatment, in particular sewage sludge, in accordance with the waste legislation on the qualification of the part of energy recovered from thermal treatment of waste. Here, too, there will be a situation where CO2 emissions are not greater than 100 kg/MWh, with a capacity utilisation rate greater than 3504 MWh/MW/year. It should also be pointed out here that the issue concerns the members of the energy macroclass, point 4, as well as the members of the microclass. And there are other cases than those mentioned in these points, but I do not go deeper into the detail of this topic. Changes in the auction support scheme also provide for the possibility to participate in the hybrid RES auction. The aim of this action is to make full use of synergies between RES installations using different types of RES for electricity generation, so that energy generation can be stable and predictable over a longer period of time. The objective of the definition of local biomass is to ensure the efficient use of locally available biomass resources. The analysis of current trends in energy use of biomass shows that the existing provisions introduced for the use of locally available resources, in particular residues or waste from agricultural production and the agri-food sector, do not fully contribute to the objectives pursued. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 119a of the draft law indicates that the Minister responsible for Energy may define by regulation a radius of the area from which local biomass may be obtained, no more than 300 km from the manufacturing unit in which it will be used, taking into account the need for efficient use of locally available biomass resources. Until the publication of the abovementioned document. the regulation, the radius of the area from which the local biomass may be obtained, shall not exceed 300 km from the manufacturing unit in which it is used. In other cases, please, it should also be said that simplification also applies to statements made by energy producers in RES installations using biomass, biogas, agricultural biogas or bioliquids. The project provides for the elimination of the need to indicate that biomass used does not contain substances that do not naturally occur in a particular type of biomass, due to the problematic nature of the regulation and the impossibility of avoiding minor impurities. In addition, the changes made eliminate the risk of taking all support from the situation of production in the above mentioned. the installation of energy components based on other fuels by indicating, inter alia, that the certificate of origin does not qualify for that part of the electricity used, etc., and, which should be stressed that, according to the wording of the statements in question so far, any slightest failure in terms of the fuels used has led to the fact that all energy could not be classified as renewable energy. By introducing the proposed solutions it will be possible to exclude only the volume of energy that has been produced on the basis of other fuels. The draft amendment also includes provisions that will enable the creation of new dedicated multi-fuel combustion plants and their participation in the auction system to promote the creation of electricity generation facilities in a stable manner, as well as the creation of an increased demand for locally available biomass resources. In view of the above, a number of changes have been made to allow participation in the auction system of the entities concerned. These changes include, in particular, the revision of the definition of a dedicated multi-fuel combustion plant, the introduction of the need to set the reference price for these installations, and the exclusion of such installations from the restrictions which so far have been contained in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 RES Act. The project also proposes to entrust tasks resulting from the RES Act to a stable entity with the necessary experience in the performance of similar tasks in the electricity sector - it is about the Management Board of Resolutions SA - and the liquidation of the company located only at the initial stage of the organization - it is about the Operator of Resolutions of Renewable Energy SA. By exploiting synergies, this will reduce the operating costs of the system to a minimum and improve financial management. As far as matters related to the Settlement Manager are concerned, I would like to add that the Settlement Manager has successfully since 2008 been engaged in obtaining financing and clearing of public aid in the context of the process of granting stranded costs and gas costs from the appropriations resulting from the transitional levy under the Act of 29 June 2007 on the rules for covering costs incurred by manufacturers in connection with the early termination of long-term contracts for the sale of power and electricity. The obligation to provide support under the RES Act will also ensure that this system does not generate additional organisational and operational costs, and the paying agent will perform these tasks efficiently due to the experience gained so far. This will be due to the fact that the entity responsible for the collection of the RES charge will be the TSO providing the provision service of the national electricity system - KSE, and the payer of the RES fee will be the RES using this service. As part of the process, technical and organisational solutions will be used - here RES payers are, at the same time, payers of the transitional fee - already used for the purpose of collecting the transitional fee under the PPAs Act, thus avoiding additional costs which would entail the independent conduct of this process by the Renewable Energy Settlement Operator SA, requiring the construction of communication and financial channels from scratch with each RES payer individually. Synergies of financial management, organisational capacity and well-established position will be exploited. The risk to the smooth start of the new support scheme, linked to the creation of a new entity from scratch and the need for organisational efficiency, shall be avoided. Here it may be stressed that entrusting the function of the renewable energy billing operator of the Disclaimer SA will allow, following the introduction of appropriate amendments to the Act on PPAs, also for the RES support system tested under the Act on PPAs to obtain external financing in the event of a temporary shortage of funds in the RES support system. The effective use of this mechanism is only possible in the case of an entity with a sufficiently long credit history and acquired credibility. This is the case in the case of the Account Holder SA. In addition, entrusting the implementation of two support schemes of the Settlement Manager SA will, subject to certain conditions, avoid additional financial costs where a deficit of funds is incurred in the account of one fee and their surplus will occur in the account of the second fee. The PPAs Act introduces a number of ownership restrictions, ensuring the full transparency of the management and control of the fund. According to Art. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act on PPAs profit The Management Board of Settlements SA can only be used to finance the activities specified in this Act. The principles of supervision exercised by the Minister responsible for Energy over the company of the Management Board of Settlements SA are laid down by law. The management of the Settlements SA has been implementing a public aid scheme under the PPAs Act since 2008, and the tasks of the company are to collect, manage and pay the funds to the generators covered by the public aid scheme under the rules set out in the PPAs Act, i.e. activities similar to those foreseen for OREO SA. The company's activities are classified as other financial services activities, not elsewhere classified, excluding insurance and pension funds. To sum up the above, the cheapest and most effective way for the SR SA to enter into the rights and obligations of OREO SA with due regard to the interest of the State Treasury, employees and consequences of liabilities vis-à-vis OREO SA's counterparties was chosen. In addition, in the article. 47a an obligation to confirm the so-called the incentive effect for agricultural biogas producers, according to which the manufacturer, who intends to produce agricultural biogas in RES installations and wants to obtain a certificate of origin for agricultural biogas, is required to submit an application to the President of the URE for official confirmation of the incentive effect. The aim of this provision is to fill the legal gap in the scope of the so-called law. the incentive effect for those manufacturers which are not subject to the concession obligation. This provision aims to ensure consistency of regulation with EU state aid rules. As regards the amendments to the Energy Law, a group of Members proposed to specify the following: First of all, in the article. 6c after mouth. 1 provision is made for the addition of paragraph. 1a, so that a prosumer who is a consumer within the meaning of the Civil Code has the right to lodge a complaint with an energy undertaking concerning the connection of the micro-installation, the clearing and distribution of that energy. Moreover, the complaint procedure for the consumer prosumer has not yet been specified. The proposed provision will enable an amicable solution to the dispute with the energy company. Second, according to Article. Paragraph 7 8d the electricity distribution undertaking, in addition to the fact that it confirms the submission of the notification referred to in paragraph. 8d, and record the date of its submission, has also been required to connect to the micro-installation network on the basis of the notification within 30 days of that notification. Until now, there is no deadline for joining in the notification mode. However, it should be the same as when determining the connection conditions. Third, in the article. In paragraph 7, the first paragraph is replaced by the 8d provision has been made that the electricity distribution system operator may reduce the load or disconnect from the network the micro-installation connected to the operator's network where the generation of electricity in that micro-installation poses a threat to the safety of the network's operation. The reduction or disconnect from the micro-installation network shall be proportionate to all micro-installations connected to the network of the electricity distribution system operator concerned and to the risk of the operation of that network. Fourthly, in the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the catalogue of disputes concerning the refusal to connect the micro-installation, the non-inclusion of the micro-installation despite the expiry of the deadline referred to in Article 1 has been adapted. Paragraph 7 8d point 2 of the Energy Law Act, unjustified reduction of load or detachment from the micro-installation network, which may result from the application of Article. Paragraph 7 8d Energy Law Act. In these cases, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office shall decide at the request of the party. Currently, there is no appropriate dispute settlement procedure in the above mentioned. cases. In order to enable entrepreneurs to adapt to the proposed rules, it is foreseen that the obligation to maintain the minimum share of local biomass referred to in a number of articles which I will not mention here is all enshrined in the draft amending act in Article. 1 as amended by this Law, will apply from 1 January 2017. The amendment also provides for the elimination of unnecessary barriers to the development of this area of energy on a micro scale, i.e. information obligations of micro-producers. The removal of this barrier can be an additional stimulus, which will have a positive impact on the development of prosumer installations in Poland. There is also in the proposed regulation information abolition, which concerns prosumers, agricultural biogas plants, energy producers from small RES installations. As regards this abolition, the draft abolishes the information obligations referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 or 2 and Article 2. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 or 2 RES Act. In addition, it is possible to waive the imposition of fines on micro-producers who have failed to comply with these obligations. In accordance with the proposed provisions, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will waive the penalty referred to in Article at the request of the micro-processor. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Paragraph 4 (2) of the RES Act and administrative proceedings initiated or conducted in this case will be terminated. Similarly, at the request of a micro-processor from agricultural biogas, the President of the Agricultural Market Agency shall waive the penalty referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Paragraph 7 (2) of the RES Act, and administrative proceedings initiated or conducted in the case, will be terminated. Applications referred to above may be submitted within 12 months of the date of entry into force of this Law. For manufacturers in small RES installations at the request of the manufacturer who has not submitted the quarterly report referred to in Article to the President of the URE within the time limit. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (7) of the RES Act, or incorrect information has been provided in that report, the President of URE will be able to reduce the penalty imposed or waive the penalty referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 point 1 of the RES Act. Similarly, as regards manufacturers in RES installations using agricultural biogas at the request of the manufacturer, which has not submitted the quarterly report referred to in Article to the President of the ARR within the time limit. Point 25 (6) or Article 25 (6). Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (6) of the RES Act, or incorrect information has been provided in that report, the President of the ARR will be able to reduce the penalty imposed or waive the penalty referred to in Article. 170. When determining the amount of the fine referred to above, the President of the URE or the President of the Agricultural Market Agency shall take into account in particular the scale of the economic activity carried out in the field of electricity generation and the circumstances of the breach of the provisions of the Act and the prior infringement of the laws and financial possibilities of the manufacturer. The draft proposes that either the President of the URE or the President of the ARR may also waive the penalty referred to in paragraph 1. 1 or in the mouth. 2 if the non-executive entity mentioned above. the quarterly report has in particular abandoned the infringement before or immediately after the initiation of the procedure. And that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have presented quite comprehensively the changes that we wish to introduce as a group of applicants a draft amendment to the RES Act. I would like to put an end to this and ask all of you, of all the parliamentary clubs, to speak and to refer to these proposals, but above all, I have a request that these changes be accepted with understanding and approval. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u388	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding our proposal to amend the Renewable Energy Act and some other laws. Just now, the applicant Ewa Malik has discussed the intentions of this project in very detail. In that case, I will try to focus my attention on some of the innovative solutions that this project contains, talking about the main assumptions of this project and actually a little generalizing what is its message. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in Poland for some time, since the development of renewable energy sources, we have had quite unpreparable rules regarding their operation, financing and the possibility of electricity transfer to the grid. In some sense there were also no solutions concerning the auction system, the billing. Nor was it possible to rationalise the amount of energy and the way it was delivered to distribution networks. Of course, this was due to the fact that this was the beginning of development: these renewable sources were few, this was not a problem in the energy or transmission system of the country. This energy mix has been built for years. Because we have more and more renewable energy from renewable energy sources and it has started to represent quite a significant share - it can also be said that we have fulfilled the commitments that we have taken upon ourselves, which are precisely due to the introduction into the mix of energy parts of renewable energy sources - it is time to end, colloquially speaking, with the full freedom of America that we had in this field in our country. This is why there are a number of solutions for ordering, giving transparency, and at the same time simplifying the principles of promoting the development of energy, renewable energy sources. There are a number of innovative solutions here, one can say, those that are moving forward, into the future, also meet the European Commission's position on this policy, saying that a new policy on RES is needed to eliminate the current imperfect state of the market, infrastructure and, at the same time, in some sense, to market this element of our energy. So here, on the one hand, we have a proposal for some possibility of directing energy streams - an operator can limit the supply of this energy to the grid, it can also lift the charges - we have a definition of what a prosumer is and, on the other hand, innovative solutions are being introduced, called clusters, where prosumers or renewable energy producers will be able to create something that I would call a new philosophy of social energy. In short, we not only create individual prosumers, but also create prosumer clusters, which are some kind of novel. But it's not such a novelty, which is a completely innovative idea. This is a novelty resulting from the different positions of the European Commission and from the direction in which the development of modern treatment of these energy sources is currently going. There are also many other positive changes here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But unfortunately, my time is up. That is why I am asking you to support this project. Of course, we will proceed with the detailed work on these solutions, as well as the comments that your applicant has already mentioned here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u390	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Civic Platform Club against the current law. Now, if you'll allow me, given the five-minute speaking time for such a comprehensive and complex bill, I'm going to start de facto from the end. Although even the most complex law can be discussed in short words, provided that it is consistent logically and subject to a systematic purpose, and this particular law, which is not the only one, cannot be accused. In fact, this bill is another attack on renewable energy sources. As a result, we can have the final end of the development of modern renewable energy in Poland, especially dreams of universal civic energy. [[That's where she's going.]] This project is also another demonstration of disregard for the Community rules that apply to us as a result of a voluntary, supported referendum on accession to the European Union. As I have a short period of time, I immediately announce that, in view of the arguments put forward by the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask you to reject the project at first reading. Maybe when it comes to substantive arguments, I will try to focus on a few basic points, although I had the impression that we were talking about a completely different bill. I understand that after the Semantic Revolution she has already gone through such logic. Energy is one of the key segments of the economy, and the legislative processes concerning it should be transparent and based on reliable analyses, while after the December amendment of the RES Act and the draft law on investments in wind power stations we had yesterday a show of demagogy and superstitions - another draft energy law was introduced to the Sejm, which did not undergo public consultations or inter-ministerial arrangements, and did not assess the effects of regulation. The justification given for the project is, gently speaking, laconic. I am referring here to a summary of the impact of the regulatory assessment, which only takes half a page, and the entire justification is not very much referring to all the changes contained in the draft, and they relate to the most important issues related to micro-installations and their support. I would like to say here that this support will not, on the contrary, often micro-installations and their owners will support you on new terms. The following changes concern provisions dedicated to micro-installations, i.e. the smallest RES installations with a power of up to 40 kW. The proposal provides for the repeal of the provisions of the RES Act, which consisted of so-called. the prosumer amendment, which was also adopted by the PiS votes. These rules, although never entered into force, were intended to introduce into Polish law the so-called clearing system known from other Member States of the European Union. Guaranteed tariffs. Such mechanisms are based on a fixed price guaranteed for a certain period of time for the purchase of energy from micro-producers by energy trading companies. In return, applicants propose a so-called clearing system. waste, it is an unnamed and unknown settlement system in the European Union, under which a prosumer micro-processor would be entitled to collect 0,7 electricity from that network for each kilotohour of electricity introduced into the grid. kWh of energy for installations with a power of up to 7 kW. Accordingly, in the case of micro-installations with a power of more than 7 kW, it could receive 0,5 kWh and in the case of micro-installations with a grant, even those with a higher power, 2, 3 kW - just 0,35 kWh. Surprisingly, the prosumer is to be able to participate in the scheme only for a period of 10 years, whereas for other instruments it is essentially 15 years. The project does not include any calculations or data or information as to whether the actual cost of generating energy in individual micro-installations has been taken into account. It is therefore not known whether the proposed mechanism provides actual support to potential prosumers or not. Does the regulation adopted by the State guarantee a return on investment to future producers, or does it result in a financial loss? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The most appalling entry and proposal in this Act is the introduction of a transitional fee related to the amendment to the PPAs Act, which is a fee and which is not directly related to renewable energy sources...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u392	Draw close to the end, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u393	...and will introduce an additional tax for Polish families. Let me ask you a question about this in the questioning session. At the same time, I submit a motion to reject the project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u394	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Draft law, print no. 476, in respect of which the position of the Poselski Club Kukiz15 I have the honour to present, entered the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 5 May this year. The Renewable Energy Sources Act of 20 February 2015 establishes that the RES support model will ultimately be based on the auction system. This law has changed the support system for the formation of RES, which once regulated the Energy Law. Energy generators from RES installations were to be selected as part of the auction. The price for which production would have taken place was to decide on the choice of the winning entity. The conditions for participation in auctions were the pre-qualification procedure to be submitted to the specific potential manufacturer. The auction participant had 48 months from the closing date of the auction for the supply of energy. The exceptions are photovoltaics - 24 months and wind installations at sea - 72 months, when the amendment is adopted - 120 months. The amendment of the RES Act of 29 December 2015 postponed the deadline for the implementation of the auction system to 1 July 2016. The fundamental question raised by stakeholders interested in regulating the renewable energy market is that there is no definition of what modernization is. Installations upgraded after 1 July this year. lose the possibility to participate in the so-called system. green certificates, and it is not known whether these installations will be able to participate in the auction system. And here it must be made clear that the division into new and modernized installations itself raises doubts about the rational use of RES for the energy security of Poland and the normal marketing of electricity market as well as heat from RES. It is also worth mentioning the expenses already incurred by investors who have incurred such expenses. The assumption of designers, and in principle the Ministry of Energy, that prosumer generates energy for its own needs, is clear. In the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act, there are no guaranteed tariffs, and instead a discount system is proposed, e.g. a maximum of 1 kWh from the home network can be collected 0,7 kWh, the overall lack of cost-effectiveness of the solution. There's still time to think about it. It is characteristic that prosumers will be individuals, local governments, churches and companies. Chapter 4 of the RES Act requires notification by the European Commission. Energy companies must be licensed for energy trading and must also comply with the obligation to purchase energy from RES installations. The power-generating entity shall be a prosumer when it is simultaneously a producer and a consumer of that electricity or heat. The Act favours cogeneration, but reduces the development of distributed small electricity producers. Plus, we are betting on the local market for energy producers and our Polish technologies. The production of energy from the wind, the sun will have less support, but support for the biogas plant and support included in the Polish specificity, the tradition of production of energy from coal is visible. Projectors propose the introduction of baskets, technological groups. This objective is aimed at making changes to the auction support scheme for the allocation of auctions into technological baskets and the use of biomass energy production. On the other hand, it is astonishing to see the wording in the article. 1 paragraph 4 point 4: the provisions of the Act are without prejudice to the rules on competition and consumer protection. In itself, he questions the democratic nature of the bill. The question is whether dedicated multi-fuel combustion plants still need a concession for electricity generation. Another issue is the introduction of hybrid RES installations. This is a step forward in the context of the approach to renewable technologies. The definition of the concept of renewable energy installation shall include storage of energy in isolated equipment. I wonder if macroclasses, microclasses of energy will work as investments made locally, whether they will be widely used. Introduction, finally, prosumer concepts. The issue of dispute and discussion, which is predictable, will be the amount of electricity entered into the network and collected from the network, which can be settled by prosumer from 1 to 0,7, 1 to 0,5 or 1 to 0,35, depending on the specific characteristics and conditions of the installation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Kukiz Posel Club15 supports the adoption of the proposed amendment to continue the process in the parliamentary committees if further amendments have a bearing on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act. I'm going to divide my speech into a few elements. First of all, a general remark. As a very important area of the economy, the project should be based on reliable analyses, be the subject of consultation with many environments, but this project - introduced as a parliamentary initiative, although it was created in the Ministry of Energy, I don't think anybody is questioning it - is intended to circumvent the requirement to develop both the impact assessment and the consultations I mentioned. What are the main objectives of this project? With regard to micro-installations of renewable energy sources, the Act practically marks the end of distributed civic energy. And that's what I'm sad to say, because it was such a genuinely bottom-up citizen movement. Citizens wanted to install photovoltaic installations on their roofs, prepare for these intentions, many of them have already done so. According to the current version of the Act, the least-owned prosumers were to be entitled to fixed guaranteed tariffs. They will now be able to benefit from such a proprietary system of the Ministry of Energy. There are many doubts about how this author's system is supposed to function. In particular, the law does not explain, perhaps the Minister will refer to this, how We will deal with such installations where there will be an excess of energy produced in relation to the one that they will be able, in accordance with the relevant regulations, to take away the prosumers. The novel shortens the current support period from 15 to 10 years, which is also a negative element. In order to remain objective, I also see positive elements in this regulation. This element is to extend the prosumer directory to new entities. We are thinking of companies, local governments or churches here. This is a positive element. As far as the auction system is concerned, we are making significant changes here, which relate primarily to the division into additional auction baskets. In these auctions there will be the possibility to carry out hybrid projects, which is also a good change. It's hard for me to go through those words, but I have to say them. [[Applause]] Another novelty is the introduction of a definition of local biomass, 300 km from where it is used. As biomass has actually traveled almost all over the world so far, it seems that this regulation has some justification. To sum up this part, these solutions mean a return to supporting co-incineration and large hydropower plants, existing hydropower plants, large, which is also incomprehensible to me. I'd like the Minister to take that into account, too. I welcome the introduction of the concept of clusters here as an idea of organisations to generate and balance the demand for energy of RES. And the last elements are the RES fee and the transitional fee. The law introduces, you can say, parataxes, because there is an increase in the transitional fee, almost twice or even twice. It is not clear to me what the purpose of this fee is. I can only guess, but in this respect I will ask a question, leaving my colleague some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u398	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. Your friend left you very little time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u399	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, there is only one thing, in conclusion, because a colleague, Mr Gryglas, referred very substantively to this law. I would like to talk about another important aspect from the point of view of the work of the High House, how the High House is perceived by society. Well, we believe that the essence of this law, which is being established, should also be its stability. But to bring about such a situation that in a short time, when [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizens began to plan when all this started to doughnut, when this civic energy gained a new, cool, energetic face throughout the country, there is a change in this and the reversal will absolutely not encourage building confidence in the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u400	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u401	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club... We need to answer the question whether we want renewable energy to develop in Poland or not. Whether this is a necessary evil, against which we defend ourselves and in every way prove that it is unnecessary, that the prices will rise, that it will ruin our economy, whether we see economic development in it, we see healthy air, healthier people, fewer diseases - let us respond to it. If we defend ourselves against it, we'll never make a good bill. Let me get this straight. Today, 87%. According to recent research, Poles are in favour of complementing our energy system with renewable energy. 22% Poles already today would like to invest on the roof or in the garden to put something there - 22%, 1/5 Poles. People want, people see the future in it. But we try people. It's disgusting, explaining that the price of energy production will increase from 170 to 700. If we had 100% energy in the energy balance with RES, that is correct, while we are talking about gradual replenishment, over the years, because coal will continue to be our primary source of energy for several decades. Why don't we go ahead and do what others have done before us, not show that what others have done was wrong. There will be no development of renewable energy without support, this support must be. In every country it has been so, and it must be so with us. [[And it will be.]] It's complicated. Mr President, this is an anti-system, an anti-support system. The generals are here, of course, which do not prove anything. The devil is in the details that are contained in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, with this way of supporting profitability is 25 with 0.7 support, let it be 20 years, we are talking about 10 years of support, I said 15. Who's gonna be there to support you in energy production, and then you're gonna make money from that? And with this lower support, it's 40 years, 40 years would have to go on in that generation so that it would go down the drain to pay back the costs. These are the passwords, some of the thoughts contained here, residually ripped out, there's no consistency, there's really no consistency. This bill in such a version has no chance, will not function. [[It'll work.]] It will not function, sir, which is why the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party requests that this project be rejected. After all, we have the law in force, there are amendments needed, these amendments can be made quickly. There are already some experiences, people have prepared for this, they have invested, it has been logical and coherent, while we are at the moment flipping over everything, we want to prove that co-incineration will be more beneficial for renewable energy, because this is where it is headed. We want to prove that they are prosumers, citizens should support you in the production of renewable energy, because what is giving away for free 30% renewable energy, which the State will later sell to other customers. [[For the account, sir.]] For the settlement, we'll pay, we'll all pay. And this country should pay more... [[We're gonna lose it. We're gonna get it.]] ...and find a skilled way, a logical way to support. But if there's a statement somewhere that you can make money from energy production... [[Isn't it?]] ...you get crazy fellows: as it is, we still have to earn 700 zł, tell strange things like that, produce electricity. Transfer fee on this proposal, which represents 40% bill, approx. 40% The bill that every citizen pays for electricity will increase by 10%. Will there be extra costs? There'll be extra costs. So let's not say we're going to support renewable energy production here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore propose that we reject this law, and I would like to propose a public hearing at the committee meeting. It's nonsense that such a serious bill should be proceded from day to day. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u402	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz to Profit, the Circle of Messenger Freedom... [[Voice from the room:...Free and Solidarni.]] ... Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u403	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am honored for the first time to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws, print No 476. Poland has exceeded halfway through its obligations under EU Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the production of energy from renewable sources. By the end of 2014, we will reach 11.45% share of renewable energy in a perspective of 15,85% by 2020 in accordance with the national action plan. However, the achievement of the minimum objective is not so sure. Already, the energy sector is asking questions about the possibility of developing RES in the three sectors that the European Union accounts for, i.e. heating and cooling, electricity and transport. Further disregarding the real problem is increasingly bringing Poland closer to failing to fulfil its commitments by 2020. It is estimated that about 3% of the share of energy from RES in total gross energy consumption, i.e. 30% below the target. Such a green energy deficit can have two consequences. The first is the need to carry out a statistical transfer of energy from other countries, the cost of which may be about PLN 8 billion. In the second case, infringement of EU commitments will be brought against Poland, which may result in financial penalties imposed on Poland. It is therefore extremely urgent to submit this bill to the High House, to take up legislative work and to adopt a law that will trigger the long-awaited possibility for citizens to invest in renewable energy sources. In the draft law, the power-generating entity was called prosumer, which also means the energy producer and consumer. The prosumer will be e.g. natural person, school, clinic, farmer, housing community, company and many other entities that will generate energy in installations up to 40 kW for their own needs, but not for sale. The surplus of energy will be released to the network and then collected in the annual settlement, so-called. net metering, in certain quantities, depending on the size of the installation or the public aid received. Thus, the energy grid will be an energy warehouse for prosumers. After storing the energy, the prosumer will receive the relative amount specified in the Act. Since there will be no sale of energy, there will be no tax. Hybrid installations may be used, e.g. windmill plus photovoltaic panels. Prosumer will not have to own the installation. It is enough that he will be a user, which will open up wide funding opportunities. In principle, any counter will be able to form the basis for the operation of prosumer energy, there will be no limit on the number of installations or the time limit for entering the new system, there will be no limit on the total capacity of the installation as in the case of the famous 800 MW casus, as mentioned in the current version of the Act. Already working prosumers will be able to join the new system, but they will not be obliged to do so, acting within the framework of the so-called. a small three-pack, but also a subsequent change of decision will be possible in their case. The absence of a limit of 800 MW combined with guaranteed tariffs will make the prosumer fully able to decide when to install the installation, which is important e.g. at the construction of the house. Prosumer will be able to plan an investment in RES without pursuing with others for market share limited by a limit of 800 MW. Municipalities owned by many facilities will be able to plan investments in RES in the long term rather than on an action basis. Today it can already be said openly that tariffs were guaranteed a stage in the fight for energy distributed in Poland. Although adopted in February 2015, the previous PO-PSL team did nothing to ensure that the Act entered into force. It was enough to issue a few implementing regulations, but one month after the President signed the bill, the Ministry surprised the market with the necessary amendment, and then reminded itself that this chapter on auctions and prosumers should be sent for notification. I think it's all so that civil energy doesn't exist. [[Yes.]] For 8 years, POs and PSL have actually blocked the entry into force of the Prosumer rules and, in the light of today's speeches by Members of the Civic Platform and PSL, it must be said that they are still doing so. The tariffs are guaranteed by over-use and unfair support, as all possible installations have become very strong. In addition, the limit of 800 MW imposed on 2,3 years ago would be only 150 thousand. installation for a handful of participants on a first-come, first-served basis. [[Yes, sir.]] There's not much time left, I can't make it all... However, the development of renewable energy sources should go hand in hand with the restructuring of Polish mining [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Polish conventional energy, whose functioning is the basis of energy security of Poland. The Free and Solidarni Circle recommends that the bill be directed to further work in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u404	Thank you very much, sir. 23 Members have entered the question. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club, asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u405	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal to amend the law can significantly worsen the conditions of prosumer investments and rather prevents an average Pole from creating an economically justified domestic business plan for such a micro-installation of RES. Without guaranteed tariffs, it will also not be possible to decide whether to invest in national production of prosumer energy equipment by national producers. Therefore, there are no visible economic and tax benefits for Poland in this respect. Let me remind you that the President of PiS and the rapporteur of the committee voted in favour of the amendment introducing the FiT tariff to the RES Act in February last year. Now they're thrown out of the bill. It should be noted that citizens' prosumer investments have so far only developed in those countries where the FiT tariffs were. Nobody in Europe has experience with the proposed deserts in the version developed by the Ministry of Energy. The Prosumer Movement will not develop at all if it is administratively bound by the requirement of a production limit for its own use only. Is this really the intention of the applicants to amend the law, and will such a lack of responsibility for the word defend the PiS in the High House? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u406	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When the Renewable Energy Act was created, all the environments focused on the Seym, in the commission halls and we discussed. It lasted about six months, because this is very serious matter and you can't do something in two weeks without really knowing the effects of your findings and causing us to go into something that is a big risk. The idea of the previous law was to make renewable energy sources as cheap and prosumer as possible, i.e. in distributed energy. However, at the moment I have the impression that entering quasi-technological baskets can make this energy of RES, its price will increase, as we will either invest or auction will win installations that are the most expensive installations. After what happened to the wind, we already understand that really renewable energy sources can be definitely, definitely more expensive. Therefore, the question is: What are the simulations of the RES mix at the end of 2020 when the 15% obligation has to be fulfilled ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many winds, how many biogas plants, how many photovoltaics and how many geothermals? How much finally, and this is the clou of everything, do you really plan to co-incinerate as the problem of renewable energy sources in the European Union? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u408	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The development of the energy sector should benefit not only from the development of entrepreneurship or rural development. This is also extremely important in the context of the last negative report by the World Health Organisation on the improvement of the cleanliness of the environment to our country, with particular emphasis on air quality. Interested parties in the regulation call for the proposed changes to the discharge system to account for the amount of electricity entered into the grid to be withdrawn. Such a solution will enable small energy generators to obtain full gratification behind the generated and introduced energy into the network. They also demand a precise definition of prosumer in order to clearly identify the situation of entities wishing to be involved in the RES energy production process. I would therefore like to ask the Members of the applicants the question: Will these proposals be taken into account and introduced into the law in the course of the work on regulations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u410	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jan Warecha, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Designed changes are desirable, which is why I am a little surprised by the position of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party club, because there are few controversial elements here. However, I would like to ask the Minister to answer a few questions: Do you think that the proposed changes will introduce clear and transparent rules on the generation and use of electricity from RES in micro-installations? How do the new rules define permissible public aid for investments in dedicated multi-fuel combustion plants? How is this project intended to create a competitive renewable energy market, which is one of the main objectives of the proposed changes? How does this law simplify reporting procedures for micro-producers? Can the proposed law have any negative legal effect on the broadly understood group of entrepreneurs, even by forcing them to comply with its provisions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u412	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u413	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am amazed at the position of the Civic Platform and amazes me by my astonishment at the extensive matter contained in this bill. I would like to remind you that in the end of 2015 you and PSL adopted a change of the RES Act, and here another change, and it is so extensive. When I examined the provisions of this law, I pointed out that a large part of it you have devoted to biomass, and that you have introduced a new concept of local biomass. I think you're going to have a lot of questions about this. For example, what if this local biomass is no longer within 300 km and does not satisfy local needs? But my basic question is this: Are you concerned that the introduction of a restriction on the possibility of supporting the production of electricity from biomass only to energy produced from local biomass is in line with the Treaty principle of freedom of movement of goods in the European Union? This is all the more surprising because it is the PiS in every communication that confirms that we are in the European Union and that you do not intend to abandon it in your governments, which is, I understand, also to follow the rules that apply to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u414	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The procedated draft Renewable Energy Act is another project on which work is carried out in a hurry, without consultation, where the matter is extremely serious, the project itself is extensive, complex, opaque, incomprehensible both for prosumers and for ordinary citizens, and this is also the opinion of many of us MEPs. The project prepared in the Ministry for the Marshal's staff was influenced as a parliamentary project, and such a project does not in fact require relevant opinions and expertise. Hence my question: Has the Ministry of Energy been familiar with the position sent to you by the Polish Solar Energy Association and the Fotovoltaic Industry Association? In the position that I have read, there are many shortcomings in this project, but also - probably right - the fear that the proposed solutions limit the production of energy from wind and sun, do not improve, improve air quality in Poland, and there is a possibility that they will not increase GDP, will not increase the number of jobs, but also, if the project is prepared in such a formula, innovative technologies will not be used. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u416	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bogusław Sonik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For 6 months you have been exercising power, it is time to present your government concept of energy mix and the future of Polish energy. It is impossible to hide from Members' projects, which are not subject to consultation, and in addition, like the law on windmills, they avoid the environmental commission. It is unacceptable - to talk about energy today without even an opinion of the environmental committee. My question is to your applicant, the applicant's representative: Are you going to ask for this project to go to the environmental committee? My question also concerns a transitional fee. The Act significantly increases the value of the individual rates and the scope of the allocation of appropriations from the transitional fee. The amendment extends the possibility of spending on a transitional levy also to measures to ensure the security of electricity supply. There is no indication of the purpose of the change indicated in the explanatory memorandum. In view of the above, how exactly would the transitional levy measures ensure security of supply of electricity? What will they be dedicated to? Why is there no information in the explanatory memorandum about the change of destination of these measures? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u418	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the fate of the strangely introduced, as I mentioned earlier, to the bill of amendment of the law on PPAs, in short. This amendment concerns a transitional levy which was originally intended to cover only the existing obligations resulting from the so-called. stranded costs. And they should soon go to zero. Although these obligations are decreasing, they have been notified to the European Commission. The government now wants to increase the transitional fee from PLN 3.87 gross to PLN 8 per month for the household. In this situation this means that it will have an amount of about PLN 2.4 billion per year. This revision, which is strange, also implies extending the use of these funds, completely inaccurate and certainly illegal public aid and, in any event, requiring notification to the European Commission. The way these measures are located is also suspicious. Investment certificates managed by the Treasury of investment funds can be placed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] then converted into shares of energy companies, e.g. coal and then returned to the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u420	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u421	Do you think that this additional tax for Polish families to finance the lack of an idea for mining is appropriate? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u422	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a few questions. I have a question for the applicant - Madam, I have a question for you - has this project, my honourable Member, been consulted with the Energy Regulatory Office? Because I don't believe the Energy Regulatory Office would agree to such solutions. I am aware that the Ministry will not later be responsible for the increases that will occur, because here there will be an increase in energy prices. The imperfection of these accounts and the growth already proposed in the project itself will translate into an increase in energy price. Was that consulted at all with the URE? Madam, I have a question for you. [[You'll find out.]] Your Marshal, the applicant...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u424	She won't be able to answer your question because she won't listen. [[She'll be able to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u425	Is she gonna be able to do that? [[He'll make it.]] What about the notification? Because in many places, at least in several places, as you mentioned, there is this public aid, public aid even in the sense that it is citizens who will help, which is also incompatible, because they help energy companies. What about this biomass - 300 km? We say it will be Polish, our native biomass. This is fiction. Member, this is fiction. 300 km is a radius, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if there's a company at the border, it's 300 kilometers the other way, and that could already be the entire globe, and it can't be verified. It's really ridiculous to put things like that in. If anything, these are concrete solutions, because here we need concrete solutions, really very precise ones. But let them be concrete. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u426	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My question concerns the question that Mrs Lenartowicz has already raised. Maybe I should just clarify that I expect a very specific answer to the question: What is this extra tax supposed to do? We expected that the interim fee would actually be limited and will soon cease to apply, as the PPAs case is already on its way. Meanwhile, we are dealing with a more than double increase in this paratax - from PLN 3.15 per month to PLN 6.50 - for households. This is an important burden, because on a yearly basis it's already made some money. In a moment, households will have to pay a radio-television subscription and additional fees. It will turn out that the 500 zlotys that the families received will have to be spent on an increase in household charges. Question: "What exactly is this money meant to be devoted to, because there are many possibilities in the novel law, and Mrs Lenartowicz spoke about mines, but I want to ask if there may be any more?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] other hidden purposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u428	Thank you very much. [[Where's the applause?]] [[Applause]] Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Repeating by reason of the law, the generation and entry into the electricity grid referred to in paragraph 1. 1, does not constitute an economic activity and does not provide services or sales. How do the above-mentioned provisions translate into other provisions governing the marketing of electricity? My doubts were born here. Not everyone wants to be a producer of electricity and put it in the system. Isn't private power generation overrated? The owner of the house, who will install and produce the installation of renewable energy sources, transmits it to the network - the question - will he sell taxed VAT? Going on: Is there an obligation to pay for own use of the energy mentioned above, a tax duty in the form of excise duty arises? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u430	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposals for changes in the auction process are very important. The Law in respect of the auction system introduces the fundamental principles of the so-called auction system. technology groups to make efficient use of different technologies. The project envisages introducing new rules for determining the quantity and value of energy sold. It is proposed to carry out separate auctions for the sale of energy in individual groups, in installations up to 1 MW and above 1 MW, for members of micro- and macro-classes, also in case of emissions of installations not exceeding 100 kg/MWh. I have a question for the Minister. Minister, answer the question: Why and in whose interest was the current system of energy auctions and what technologies were privileged thanks to the old system?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u432	Thank you very much, sir. [[I'll make a formal request. May I?]] You're welcome. Please, Mr Sitarski, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am making a formal proposal because I see that the rapporteur, to whom we are to ask questions, has come out. Then I ask you to tell him that, however, we would like to receive answers to the written questions we have asked, because there really is no one to answer us at this point. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u434	Thank you very much. We'll tell them that the questions are in writing. [[Voice from the room: Answers.]] Please, I invite Mr Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the very important intentions of this RES Act is to introduce the possibility of using locally available biomass resources more efficiently. According to the authors of the Act, the existing legislation does not fully contribute to the achievement of the objectives set for biomass which is a waste of agricultural production or the agri-food sector. For this purpose, local biomass has been defined and the area from which biomass can be extracted for RES installations to be used efficiently has been defined. Yesterday, we discussed a lot about wind energy as an expensive form of renewable energy generation, generating huge controversy and opposition in local environments due to the negative impact of wind turbines on the environment. In this context, how is the cost-effective issue of obtaining energy from biomass? What prospects does it create for the Polish countryside, and how is this happening in other countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u436	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u437	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Distributed energy, prosumer energy is an element of energy security of Poland. Hence my question: Why do the provisions of the Act restore the possibility of providing support in the auction system for multi-fuel combustion installations, including co-incineration of coal and biomass? The granting of certificates of origin for electricity from the co-incineration of biomass has led to a surplus of these certificates and a proper price collapse in the previous system. Therefore, providing support for these installations will not create new generation capacity in RES, thus prosumer energy and distributed energy will not develop at a sufficiently rapid pace. Hence my question: Why are there such provisions of the law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u438	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions. The draft amendment completely ignores the issue of the huge oversupply of green certificates. Their price is currently at the level of PLN 100/MWh, which makes it impossible to reach a profitability of virtually any RES installations. Moreover, the new provisions further aggravate the situation as they assume a reduction in the obligation to cancel the green certificates next year, as set out in the previously adopted Act. Do the Members of the Law and Justice realise that this will violate the acquired rights of investors who made investment decisions on the basis of the provisions of the Law of 20 February 2015? Do you realize that the price of green certificates will fall even more because of this? Second question. The project aims to restore the possibility of using full support for co-incineration technologies within the framework of the so-called. dedicated multi-fuel combustion plant. An additional number of new certificates may therefore be introduced into the already closed system. Are you aware that such actions will increase their oversupply, which is already over 20 TWh? Is the government considering - I know that the project has been prepared for many weeks by the energy department - the introduction of a permanent mechanism for regulating the market for green certificates, like the Swedish system, where the amount of the obligation is adjusted every 2 years? The draft amendment to the RES Act provides for a penalty for failing to achieve the degree of use of installed capacity. In case of [[♪ The bell ♪]] even a small, systemicly insignificant and uninvolved production of less energy than has been established, all public aid is to be reimbursed for 15 years of support. Why do you want to punish renewable energy producers twice for the same offense? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, sir, bravo, really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u441	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In this draft law in art. 1 amendments to the Renewable Energy Act are proposed. The proposed amendment 45 plans to add an article. 119a as follows: The Energy Minister may determine by regulation the radius of the area from which local biomass may be obtained, not more than 300 km from the manufacturing unit in which it will be used (...). Minister, what criteria will be taken into account when determining the radius of this area? Two. Shouldn't we consider changing the definition of the area radius to determine the area, which would allow the Minister to determine the area according to, for example, the administrative breakdown of the country? And the third question. Will the radius of the area or area defined by the Minister possibly exceed the borders of the State? It seems to me that it should remain within the state limits because it is about using biomass in the country in the planned area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u442	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representatives of the applicants who, unfortunately, are not in the Chamber: Why are large water power plants which have already been depreciated in the proposed bill favoring themselves as sources of renewable energy, which have long been depreciated, but the support for prosumers, i.e. micro-energy producers, is being removed, and this solution, as we know, is the foundation of our energy security? I wanted to ask the applicants to reply in writing, but I do not know if the Members of the applicant will prepare such an answer. I'm hoping for an answer after all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u444	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u445	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A prosumer that produces electricity will be able to actually settle only what he took from the power plant, and still in a ratio of 1 to 0,7 or 0,5 or 0,35, depending on the installed capacity. But it can happen that it has quite an efficient installation and in good weather it will produce a lot more of this energy. Here's the question. If it does not disable this installation, the energy plant will receive an excess of this energy as a gift, because this prosumer will not be able to account for this energy. Will the energy plant therefore pay the donation tax? Because he'll get the energy he can't sell as a gift, so for a good cause, the power plant will get it. Second question. Has the development of the RES Act also taken into account the fact that the Water Fees Act will be drawn up in the near future? I'm afraid that even large hydropower plants can be scarce, because if local governments... It is likely that local authorities will set the amount of water charges for use of water. If these hydropower plants are charged with water charges, then I don't see an economic bill later, if these fees were actually too high. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u446	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u447	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What justifies the change of the prosumer support scheme from the feed-in tariff scheme to the exit system and confirms the thesis from the justification of the law? I quote: In many countries of the European Union, the most widespread use of FiT is for businesses operating individual micro-installations. However, the above prevents the extensive development of Prosumer traffic, which assumes the generation of electricity for its own needs without the need for economic activity in this area. Thus: Which countries of the European Union are an example of a country where the FIT system introduced prevented the extensive development of prosumer traffic? In which market participants using the FIT system must formally carry on their business activity? In any European Union country, has the FiT system in the form proposed by the Ministry of Energy been replaced and this change has led to the prosumer movement flourishing? Does the Ministry of Energy have forecasts on the dynamics of new Prosumer installations based on the proposed waste management system? It seems that the waste system is intended to make a creative contribution to the European thought of RES. Go ahead and keep it simple. It is regrettable that without a mandate any basic experience and achievements in this area. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u448	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u449	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Renewable energy is very often, as energyists say, low-quality energy, i.e. energy that cannot be controlled. She appears at a certain time, e.g. Photovoltaic energy or wind energy. This is a heavy burden for energy networks and in general energy networks avoid such energy. It follows from this law that this energy is to be produced on site and consumed on site with the lowest possible share of energy networks. This is encouraged by this amendment of the law. This will cost less, if I understand it correctly, the readiness of professional energy, as well as the lower costs of transmission of this energy through energy networks, and will encourage prosumers of this energy to shift towards such a need for energy to [[♪ The bell ♪]] use It's its own source of cheap energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u450	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposals for renewable energy support are, of course, long-awaited, and so far this area has been unnormal in a satisfactory way. I'm interested in costs. I have a question: whether, and if so, what will be the cost of the state budget after the introduction of this law? And, if so, what additional costs will local governments incur after the introduction of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u452	Thank you very much, Member. The last question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u453	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When I hear all these indicators - you say: 0.5 , 0.7 - I wonder why in the project just such, not different sizes. Why did the state so drastically reduce this attitude with regard to prosumers? It is absolutely unacceptable to change these sizes in such a short time. The second thing I wanted to ask you is an impact assessment of the regulation. We all know it's a secret that this project was prepared by the government side. Therefore, I wanted to ask: Where is this impact assessment of the regulation, who has it, what it contains and will it be published in the Public Information Bulletin? Another question I wanted to ask: How do you assess the risks associated with the settlement of long-term contracts due to the fact that this programme has been notified to the European Commission? Do you consider informing the Commission of these changes and how do you estimate the risks of non-acceptance for these changes? And one more question, concerning the effects on the health of Poles, on air purity. We've been having an unpleasant time lately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Air report in Poland. It turns out that it is the dirtiest in Europe. This project really discourages citizens who could provide relatively clean air, using these devices that generate energy from the wind or from the sun. And the question is: Was it in the OSR that analyze the impact on air cleanliness, on the health of Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u454	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Andrzej Piotrowski will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For starters, I have a question because there's been a request for a written reply, and I've been...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u456	From what I understand, he was referring to a Member of the applicant, so that... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Marshal, I wanted to finish my sentence. Well, the applicant had to attend a committee meeting where the votes would be held, so she asked me to give you the answers on her behalf, because, in fact, the energy resort, in fact, pointed this out by the Member in her speech, cooperated, so we are ready to do so. However, if we give you an answer right now... [[Get in the mike, please.]] If you were talking to the microphone, because the MPs... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Excuse me. If we reply at the moment, then to some extent secondary will then be given in writing. So if we're going to give them in writing, I suggest we finish right now. [[Voice from the room: There is no Member of the applicant.]] I can do it on behalf of... [[I'd like it in writing.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[The Minister, by the way, and the applicant by the way.]] You're welcome. Answer me. If there are doubts, Members will also ask for clarification. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the questions have intertwined, so in some cases, if you don't mind, I'll try not to repeat myself. A number of questions concerned the micro-installation and state support, which Mrs Lenartowicz from the Platform started with the question of why support is for 10 years rather than 15, as is the case with other RES sources. In fact, in the case of auctions, it is indicated that up to 15 years can be supported. In the case of auctions, this provision is possible because at the time of publication it will be stated under which conditions the auction is announced. Therefore, there will be no situation in which someone will be in legal uncertainty as regards the length of time involved, while the State will not be put in a situation in which, for example, the State will not be placed. The natural development of technology will lead us to maintain the same period for which the installation is financed in the current law each time. I would like to make it clear to you here that auctions are, in fact, subsidies for investment costs, and only payments are made on a cyclical basis, allowing entrepreneurs to become profitable. He must actually raise funds for investment from capital markets, from own resources, maybe from credit. Therefore, writing a specific date makes it easier to discuss with the sector that finances it. In the case of prosumer it is slightly different. We are dealing with the following situation here. We have indicated that prosumer activity is not a business activity. Therefore, we need to put the thesis of countries that say that this is not worthwhile in a specific context. Here we are not talking about cost-effectiveness in an economic sense, we are talking about the interest of the consumer, the natural person, possibly any organisation to make this kind of expenditure. And of course, at this point, if this isn't an economic activity, it's a comparison on a principle: I would normally buy energy for an amount of x, and I wouldn't have to buy it because I had some expense, some expense, some cost. And now you can actually try to compare it. People, individual people bear expenses e.g. for cars, they bear these expenses, using loans, for example. Cyclically they sell - so here we do not introduce anything new - and of course in some way they evaluate their expenditures in terms of accepted values. We have assumed that, since prosumer activity is not a business activity, it is not a profit-oriented activity, we cannot consider it in the same categories as business activities. Nothing prevents a natural person, institution or company, any legal person from starting an economic activity to any extent, including micro-installations. Moreover, they are even provided for in the RES Act, and in the amendment this is underlined, the possibility of simplified clearing - precisely so as not to carry out complex settlements here. [[Minister, is this a missionary activity?]] Sir, the missionary activities are carried out by social organizations, which have it included in their statutes, possibly churches. [[This is a revolution in RES.]] Yes. However, it is here, I understand, to support certain social initiatives. These social initiatives have a certain social importance. And if this social weight is very difficult to collect in the sense of bringing it in... You're laughing here, but I'm gonna answer your question in a moment, and then maybe we'll get more into the reservations you had. I would like to return to this topic again so that you don't feel that it's kind of twisted. Yes, it is support for those who have a specific need for environmental impact. This support comes from other citizens' money - they pay the bills. So if someone says there's an extra... [[It's absurd.]] ...a tax on PPAs provided for, it must be answered that, among other things. Prosumers' activities, as well as manufacturing activities, which are intended to pay off to businesses, are producing energy sources. Because there are some citizens who are interested in the fact that, at the moment when they come into contact, it is possible to sit under electric light, the state must ensure that. The current generation capacity has not been adapted to respond within 5 minutes to the energy surplus at once, so we need to adjust the energy system to that. We're creating an instrument right now that gives us a chance. Predicting how it's gonna be done is premature right now. We simply retained an instrument called the PPAs, which was an instrument for restructuring, to cover the costs that were needed to restructure the manufacturing forces. To what extent will this be determined, this new spending? It will be determined by the government in its policy. This energy policy is currently being formulated, it is consulted both with the energy community and with other stakeholders, including the large industry, which cannot be exposed to the fact that it has energy only when, for example. The wind blows or the sun shines. I therefore respond to Mr Gryglas here - this is not a circumvention of the effects of regulation in terms of the end of the introduction of distributed, individual, prosumer activities. We, I think, tried - and hopefully this will work - to introduce a system that is fair, i.e. does not impose excessive costs on the rest of consumers of electricity in the name of a situation where someone says: I want to conduct an economic activity, because this type of economic activity, which is based on the fact that the State orders part of citizens to pay certain fees so that someone has a guaranteed profit, is not an economic activity. All economic activity - if we treat prosumer as a company - comes down to one-off organisation of the installation and paying for it. He's not looking for a client, he's not wondering if this client needs any product, he just put up a device and gets a regular income. From the point of view of fiscal law, obtaining regular income is an economic activity. From the point of view of business principles, it is difficult to call business activity - this is the kind of pension that the others make up. If such a formula is the most expensive formula for energy extraction from RES, because it is often more expensive than others, then we do not achieve here either a social objective or an environmental objective. Ladies and gentlemen, there was also a question: Okay, so what happens to the surplus? There were slogans that if only part of the energy is returned, then this surplus could be a gift to the energy company. So, first of all, we've introduced an annual settlement period here. What we meant was someone who, for example. He left during the holidays, and his installation stayed and worked, he could pick it up in the winter when the days are shorter and we consume more energy. It seems to us that a year is a period that really - if it is not a dimensional source, if it is not an assumption that it was meant to serve itself - is sufficient to prevent such a situation from occurring. On the other hand, if we are speaking in terms of a gift, you did not rebel at the prepaid, allowing telecom operators to, if someone does not use all the units in a certain time, they will disappear after some time. Well, something ends someday. It seems to us that this situation is very fair at this time of year and there is no reason for any particular concern here. If you state that this should be a period, I don't know, the whole life, of course you can make such an amendment and maybe even approve it, but I think we tried to balance it with common sense. There was also a question about support for large hydropower plants. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no support for large hydropower plants, there is support for power plants with a capacity of up to 20 MW. These are small and medium-sized power plants, which today are no longer power plants, which, let's call it, self-balance, except those that were built there once and maybe can still function. Although there are also indications that many of them require at least modernisation, and at current prices this modernisation could not be financially closed. Therefore, we have introduced the possibility of financing this type of water energy, assuming that we have quite a significant amount of watercourses in Poland and at the same time in our institutes we have technologies that allow to produce electricity from small sources, from small streams, even with a difference of 1 m in the amount of water drop. We think it's worthwhile to make this work, that it is indeed national potential. And this instrument we have dedicated, although the basket is not dedicated in a technological way - there are described a certain class of sources and criteria that also meet such small water power plants. Mr Kasprzak wanted us to answer whether RES is a necessary evil. I answer: no, this is a kind of European Union policy in which Poland wants to enter as effectively as possible. I assume that having certain obligations related to the percentage that we have accepted, which we have to fulfil - and I would remind you that this is 15% RES energy, from renewable sources in 2020 - and since previous governments have adopted a plan to do this, and we are already relatively close to 2020 - it can be said that the current system has caused us to meet the RES ratios for 2018 - so we are actually making changes at the moment so that at the same time we can create instruments that make the economic sense of RES possible. This is in line with EU policy. RES policy is very strongly discussed within the Union and the German opinion is not the only opinion. Sustainable development policy is equally important. Ladies and gentlemen, 300 km is not a magical distance, which results from the fact that we do not want to carry biomass and there is e.g. carbon footprint. Of course, unnecessary transport of biomass is not a positive phenomenon. On the other hand, we want to focus on regions where agricultural waste, possibly agricultural potential, can be used to generate energy. That is why we said that the Minister will define this in the regulation, that when examining possibilities such as generation potential or waste, these areas will emerge and at this point we will be able to determine how big they are. However, in line with EU policy - I answer slightly ahead of the question of another Member - we cannot set the border at the border of the country of this area here. Indeed, the Union claims that we should treat the possibility of trading certain goods in an open way. However, in no way does the regulation we propose here violate this principle. If the area is located at the border and our manufacturing capacity is based in some part on the potential of the neighbouring country, we assume that this is the nature of the Union's economic policy and we will not avoid it. On the other hand, we want to focus on ensuring that there is an additional instrument for sustainable development policy. I am still at Mr Kasprzak's words. I think we need to be pretty clear about what you're earning, because the the thesis here is a bit difficult for me to think about. If we foresee a grant for something and this grant comes from public funds, i.e. in one form or another it is a state grant, then it is a strange idea for the state to make money on it. Anyway, it's the opposite flow of money. Let's not say that something we subsidize is also a source of income. In any case, I do not really understand how you see such an opportunity for you to make money on something that you grant on your own. If the balance sheet was positive, then why the grant, then at this point in time actually... [[And in the clusters...]] Again. [[And in the clusters...]] But let the minister answer. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the clusters provide for opportunities for the participation of profit-oriented entities, economic operators, and these economic operators will be making money. On the other hand, the cluster - and this is defined in the definition - is dedicated to creating something called an energy island, i.e. ensuring energy self-balance as far as possible. The connection to the rest of the energy network is foreseen for security reasons. If something breaks down, if there is any fluctuations, whether it's weathery or due to substrates, it will be possible to supply energy from the outside. On the other hand, if the cluster is to generate a consistent surplus of energy, at this point in time, first, support for this kind of cluster does not concern this part, and secondly, it can be sold on the same terms as other energy producers who do. And if it is energy from RES, it can be supported from other instruments, from other auction baskets, not from clusters. The cluster is intended to create an installation that will self-balance as much as possible. Therefore, talking about a 10% increase in the transmission fee here He's another abstract to me, too. Mr Norbert Obrick's question of prosumer is whether it has to be so. Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't have to be like this. Of course, there are very different systems to support this type of movement like prosumerism. It seems to us that this is a profound emphasis on the individual approach to this, because this individual approach does not create positive social attitudes, it is still the selective treatment of man. I just assumed, let the rest of them pay for it, 'cause I'm working for the others. Of course, this is not the case if we assume that this prosumer says: Well, I, the energy that I use, would like to have as much as possible of a renewable source, so I become involved in environmental protection. As this exceeds my investment opportunities, I expect that my contribution to environmental protection will receive some support from the state. That was our thinking, perhaps wrong, but it is thinking in terms of politics, and, I understand, politics is decided by votes in parliament - either accepted or not. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak from the Platform said that in the previous act it was as if it had been reflected, as I understood, at the same time two approaches: we are looking for the cheapest RES and we want to support prosumers. So either-or. I mean, if we're talking about the cheapest manufacturers, I'm sure prosumers aren't included in this group, because that's the most expensive way to get RES characteristics. I would add that currently around 20 MW of energy is produced in prosumer micro-installations. From the point of view of the share of this part of the production overall of RES production, which is 5000 MW, this is basically a modest quantity. It seems to me that it reflects at the moment that there is actually no strong movement in this area and that those instruments that were previously used to support this movement were not effective, served, in our view, much more to support the sales techniques of installers than to actually build some social movement. Hence, it may be surprising to see such a great deal of attention here, because it seems to us that we are creating more of a situation in these records, which will allow us to talk about environmental protection rather than about what is being paid for. And I feel like we're discussing something else here. It's about co-incinerating. Ladies and gentlemen, co-incinerating is not something that is in any way treated by the Union as part of a poor method of achieving the RES target. The controversy that has emerged for years was that large companies, burning biomass on paper, were believed to generate certificates, and this is not covered. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the certificate hang has been triggered by such, and not by other, a set-up of this instrument in the financial markets. If you are interested in this, there will certainly be financiers who will explain to you that the structure of capital management in companies has caused this, not a different effect on the market, not that it was co-incinerating. It was a hypothesis, let's say, dissatisfied with the situation, and rightly, small manufacturers, e.g. biogas plants. On the other hand, in our view, this really unnecessary one, because the non-market one at this point was due to a completely different situation. The elimination of this overhang is perhaps with the power of the so-called. banked certificates, i.e. it is not really a meeting of the RES target if they were concentrated on the market. The only way to get out of this situation is to say: okay, as long as someone meets the same rules as they are, if someone has a source of RES produced according to old rules, they use instruments that were established according to old rules. Therefore, we do not physically close the old system because they are acquired rights. On the other hand, this law introduces a new instrument in the form of auctions. In this new instrument, such a phenomenon as the possibility of being pushed out of the market, theoretically, co-incinerated has been excluded because in principle co-incinerated only goes into one basket. Therefore, it is not very possible to mix such a mixture here. It competes with itself or with sources with very similar characteristics of RES generation. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of Mr Jan Warzecha from PiS, whether the rules on energy generation from RES will create stability on the market. We believe that, in a 10-year perspective, those who choose to do so under this revised law will ensure such stability. Is it possible that this policy will change? For those who enter such a system, it will not change unless they themselves wish to use some other solutions. We are aware that there is a fairly intense development of technology and that at some point these instruments may not be appropriate to the situation. Therefore, the prosumer may use this instrument for as long as it considers it necessary and important for it, but does not have to. On the other hand, entities which have declared to produce energy from RES at auctions are obliged to comply with contractual obligations. It must therefore be so that, if someone does not comply with those obligations, he or she is subject to certain sanctions. These sanctions we have proposed in the bill. They seem appropriate to the situation, especially pathological situations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that with this energy it is not so that if someone has failed to create such energy today, they must immediately give everything back. These are quite long averaging periods, Three years old. It seems to me that at this point we are even avoiding weather fluctuations, such as fluctuations. in the biomass market, so it is a relatively fair approach, but on the other hand we avoid here the situation when someone declared impossible to do things, and then after a short period he says: I failed, I apologize, I withdraw from it. That's not what business contracts are about. Ms. Ewa Drozd asked what happens when the biomass runs out. The question is whether it will be market fluctuations or whether it will be a phenomenon that extends over the years. [[Time.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if it's a systemic phenomenon, it's going to be an alarm from all sides, that it's some kind of pathology, some kind of an anomaly on the market. Therefore, either a specific regulation will be adopted, or it was not a mass phenomenon, but it concerned some difficulty in predicting for a particular manufacturer. Then, unfortunately, as is the case in business, the consequences of such failure may happen here. Therefore, we assume, to the accuracy of predictions in individual auctions... Please note that the Minister of Energy, the government here has quite ample opportunity to determine the content of subsequent baskets, criteria, reference prices. Therefore, the situation will be taken into account in biomass markets or in other RES markets. And then Mrs. Ewa Drozd came back to the question of what the free movement of goods meant about biomass in an area of 300 km. I stress that this is about sustainable development, not carbon footprint. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk from the Platform asked if we were familiar with the position of the Polish Solar Energy Association, she mentioned another organisation. Yes, we have both been familiar with these positions, and we have taken them into account to a large extent, while the opinion of a sector-specific technology-focused organisation is always in the opinion of this technology. We think there were a number of customs comments. Of course, in some way we intellectually used them and they found some kind of reflection in the records. Minister, we've already exceeded the time set aside for this point, so if you can still answer the most important questions, and the ones that haven't worked out, maybe... [[Or in writing.]] We have exceeded the time set for this point almost an hour, and here you are already waiting with the next point. If you don't mind... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Marshal, I'm sorry. In that case, I'll try as hard as I can... Very fast. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: I just didn't want you to feel disappointed in my answers. No, I'm sure. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Okay, well, then the question is, what about the notification and what about the discussions with the URE. We are in contact with URE, we explain, while URE is not really the creator of energy policy in the country, it is implementing market policy, therefore the consultation was really about the scope which concerns the URE President's competence and possibly the effectiveness of individual actions. We asked, among other things. on the occasion of the auction, as will be assessed e.g. RES energy suppliers' declarations from wind turbine sources that they can work 80% time of year. Here the position of president was clear, I will not quote it, you will allow it. I'm going back to the prosumer business again. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not rule out that those engaged in economic activities will want to treat prosumer activities as part of their wider economic activity. There is no doctrinal exclusion for this type of situation. We intend to supplement this law in the coming months. As Mr Suski mentioned here, there are very many elements that we have not been able to fit in this edition of the bill. It's good... Otherwise, better is the enemy of good. We felt that at this stage we would present you with such a project, while the fiscal matter of this issue is so complicated that we felt that we would not cause any confusion so far. We need to think very well about this so that citizens who choose to enter into this as economic operators, whose part of the activity is prosuming, do not have any problems with the fact that their interpretation of their behaviour will change. We want it to be clear from the beginning what results from this, what burdens they have on them and what they might possibly have. Mr. Adam Szłapka says we favour large water plants. No, 20 MW aren't really big power plants. Donations, as I explained, do not exist in the case of prosumers for operators. It is also not a donation to the power plant, while the water use charge is being prepared because we have a water system in terrible condition, and therefore changes need to be financed in some way. Water plants are one of the users and will bear some costs in proportion, but that is why this retention will be carried out so that we can generate more sources of energy generation, so it must be included in the total cost account at some point. Ladies and gentlemen, a supplemental... One last thing, Marshal, clean air. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: In writing.]] You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Ladies and gentlemen! Prosumer installations have no direct effect on air purity. Perhaps they can replace the source of heating, but note that in the case of photovoltaics we usually need to heat at a different time than when the sun warms, therefore we need a storage of energy and we foresaw it in the bill for the time being as a component of the system. For today, however, there are no reasonable solutions that would allow the accumulation of energy so that even in the individual sense of the user it would be profitable. So that when it comes to air cleanliness, we really need to take care of it very urgently in Poland, but we need to find a better solution, not just declared ones. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed... Yes? [[In corrigendum mode, because I was mentioned by name.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my...]] [[Very short, half a minute.]] Please, sir, but really very briefly, because today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u457	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! However, there is a significant difference between this system that you are proposing today and what you are talking about, so that the pensioners can pay the rest of the society. We really insist on these tiny prosumers, such as those who wanted to install on the roofs of their homes or in their small farms several photovoltaic panels with a maximum capacity of 3, 4, 5 kW. First of all, it wouldn't be a big surcharge. If only you, Minister, had been at one such meeting with people who were interested in such investments, little ones, according to your own capabilities, as your own contribution to what you said, to protecting the climate. It is a really important move and it is worth fighting for such a compromise. I'm not saying we have to go back to the old law, but let's really talk about some space to negotiate, because I think it's really worth it. Instead of investing in a new 1 000 power block. MW, you could have $1,000. MW get through distributed civic energy, very quickly and without the cost of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u458	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and on repealing the Act on Subscription Fees (print No 477). I ask Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The problem with public media in Poland is that everyone knows about them, some people watch or listen, and few people want to pay for them. Of course, there are other problems, but if you allow me, I will limit myself to those who are far from politics, as there is still a custom with these public media that everyone says that they should be apolitical, non-political. Maybe they should be, but let's not talk about abstraction because we're talking about laws. The project, which I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, was submitted by my club the second day following the appearance of the projects of the Law and Justice Club. It is known that no one will write the project overnight, so it is understandable that it has been prepared before, and that there are threads and solutions that have appeared in my environment before, also in the form of a specific project in the previous term, which, however, has not seen the light of day. So, of course, somewhere in our drawers, such a project existed, and we have decided to present it to the High House, because it shows some alternative treatment of solving the real problems of public media. Here we all agree, I think that in many discussions too, until then we agree that there is a problem with these media, that they are of course needed, it is not that anyone would like to get rid of them completely, but the question of how public they are, and how far they are not, and here the differences are already beginning. Only in one opinion will I refer to those competing, which are already, so to speak, at a later stage of work in the Sejm three projects by the club Law and Justice. After a public hearing on Tuesday, I think we all realized, including the authors of these solutions, that there is actually no environment and there is no party, because the strangest thing is that from very different sides, also political ones, there were remarks, very serious ones, and that actually also these solutions did not fully satisfy or largely did not satisfy the audience at this hearing, so it is all the more worth trying to discuss and show alternative solutions. Turning to the pure role of the Member of the applicant, the representative of the applicants, I will try to define these proposals in a concise and concrete manner. Firstly, it is a project which is incorporated into the entire existing law on radio and television, because it seems more sensible from a legislative point of view, and it is also clearer, because the solutions contained in the Act on radio and television, concerning advertising issues, issues of violence, issues of independent production, Polish production - there are a lot of regulations in the Act on radio and television, which also concern public media. When we take out this chapter and, in addition, propose a separate structure and organizational system, it would seem that these regulations of the Radio and Television Act do not apply, and they, after all, these general regulations, apply. We simply continue to see solutions to these problems under the Radio and Television Act. That's the first basic thing. The second basic thing, which also remains unchanged in relation to the current state, is the preservation of the current organisational formula. We cannot agree with the view that the fact that the media are currently operating in the form of single-member companies of the Treasury is a burden for them. We do not see the need to change this legal and organisational form. The Act contains a sufficiently strong blockade for possible problems related to the operation of the company, because these are special companies - they can neither fall, says the article. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 draft law, nor do they have to generate profit. So it's just the form of company that offers opportunities, for example, in terms of financing, there are also some other solutions that we think are not the worst, but are not classic companies that, for comparison, fabricate shoes or shoelaces. So we don't change that. We also do not change the clear links between public media and the National Radio and Television Council. We believe that it is important to leave the current way in which the authorities of these public media are appointed. There are certain principles from which we absolutely do not want to leave, we cannot, and we would prefer that this view be shared widely with us. We see no reason, no need, and even the opposite, we see the harmfulness of solutions that eliminate open, open competitions, both for members of supervisory boards - because these, of course, remain if companies remain - and then for members of public media boards. It's not like that - I've said it before - that the contest is some kind of pathology. It's not like the contest is worse than the appointment, and it's not quite clear with which criteria. So we leave a way of appointing these authorities, a way of recommending candidates to supervisory boards, i.e. by academic authorities, statutory bodies of universities, collegial bodies, because it seems to us that it is not from the world of politics, but from the environment of public media that these supervisory boards should be constructed so that they can also hold competitions for board members. So that doesn't change. The legal and organisational formula itself remains unchanged, the role of the national council remains unchanged, the way public media authorities are elected remains unchanged. On the other hand, if we are talking about the legal and organisational formula, such a general change, which we really care about, and it is not some kind of invention, it is the emancipation of regional public television departments. Just as we have radio companies that work - of course everything depends on people, they are better and worse, but in general the opinion of local regional radio stations is really very good - the regionalisation and locality of public media should be the most important force of public media. No commercial sender can beat it because he can't afford it, because he won't want to take it on himself in any way. When we talk about tasks, missions, public media obligations, one of the main features of these tasks and this responsibility should be regionalism. So when we have radio companies, we want these troops to be able to self-emancipate, too. Of course, we are aware of the financial realities, so there is a possibility here - of course, if both parties want to - to create regionally connected radio and television companies, but only at regional level, which would give us the possibility of better financial management, of certain common departments - I do not know - transport, marketing, accounting. These are things that could work together in such companies, but of course each of them would have its own programming policy. So this is a fundamental change in this legal and organisational structure. There is still a question of change, which is certainly the most important here, which is a change in the method of financing. I know that this competitive proposal is a whole new legislation on audiovisual charges and there are very good calculations of quite large amounts - 2 billion, 2.5 billion and 500 million - of money drawn from citizens. I also know that such a system of fees, tributes, media tax, in many countries or societies operates. It is said that there is a connection between this recipient and these media. I'm paying, so I think it's my media. But both the experience of this solution, when it was decided to charge the electricity meter, so to speak, as well as the previous trial with the subscription proves that in any case it is a system that generates additional costs, additional problems and, in fact, even if it is financially efficient, because here it can be forced in the case of electricity, creates a sense of injustice. During the hearing, we talked about this very, very much. I ignore the fact that it turns out that this designed system will probably not be able to enter into force on 1 January. I repeat, today I am talking about our proposal. So looking for such a solution to make it money, but to make it as fair as possible and not to generate any costs, we returned to the idea that had already functioned, to write down a certain write-down or percentage of state budget expenditure in the law. In this project this is presented at a minimum of 0,3%. In reality this year it would mean probably PLN 1.1 billion, a billion hundred with a piece of millions of zlotys. Of course, I realize that this is not 2 billion zlotys, but first of all, it is a minimum, second, if the High House were so kind and would like to work on this project, I will not protest as a representative of the applicants if someone thought it could be 0.5%. That's really not the problem. In any event, even the amount at the moment resulting from this deduction is 50%. higher than the amount that public media are currently getting from their subscription. With its distribution of radio, both central and regional radio stations, has little improved share of this public money in its finances - at the moment, today this share amounts to seventy pairs, 80%. On the other hand, the financing of television is definitely, very much improving. If we were to apply these solutions, because we are here, so that there is no too much discretion, we are introducing, by law, what percentage of these measures should go to what kind of media, and so if the proportions proposed here were to be maintained, television - separately large television and separate regional television companies - would have only about 700 million PLN. At the moment, television with its branches has probably 440 million zlotys. So this is a fundamental change in these proportions. Such a recording of this method of funding means that, with growing wealth, prosperity, GDP growth and expenditure, public media are, of course, also gaining. I repeat, this is tax money, which already everyone in one form or another as employees, as employers and as consumers, as users of services we have paid. This is money as spent on education, in defense, in security, in infrastructure. We pay taxes. We're spending money. We all pay those taxes in one form or another, like I said. If public media are so important, they can be financed as well. Of course, if it were purely budget funding, it would be extremely worrying: that it is discretionary that this television likes or likes these programs, that the rulers will once give, once they won't give. Well, the government doesn't give anything, and in fact, Parliament can only pick up something, but there's certainly nothing that can take away from anyone, because that money is just... [[Are you sure? Can't the bill change?]] Parliament and the governments shall comply with the budget law. It is adopted by Parliament without changing this indicator. On the other hand, this money goes to the Public Media Fund, which is a parallel institution - I see colleagues from the cultural committee, so they will know what I'm talking about - the State Institute of Film Art. There is, of course, a board of directors in which there are persons appointed by the public authority, the Minister of Finance, the Treasury and culture, or otherwise it would not be possible to manage this money would face difficulties in implementing European directives. This is the board itself, and there is a twelve-man council which is a social body. This advice works in sessions, it is not a permanent job, and it examines specific requests for allocation of these funds. The Council consists of representatives of creative, civic, i.e. non-governmental, local and local organisations. The distribution of this money or the allocation of this money, I would say, is absolutely the work of the social body, of course, with great responsibility, with reports that the Council gives to Parliament and to the national council. This report is part of the annual report of the National Council. It is a transparent system, transparent, everything is done again at the open courthouse. We know when the session is, when the assignment is, what were the conclusions, what applications and how it was decided. The Public Media Fund is a new body, I admit, but it seems to me that such a body, which here greatly socializes this process of managing public media, because, however, whoever gives money, certainly has some significant influence on how the institution that he gives money works. As these public funds have already increased significantly, we also propose some exemptions from the advertising activities of the media. These exemptions concern channels such as channels for children, TVP Culture and TVP History. These are three channels that shouldn't be there to make money from commercials. I keep saying that I am very happy because this is probably one of the few resolutions of the Public Television Programme Council, which was almost realized by hand, because we have discovered as the Programme Council that we were terribly upset by the fact that ABC channel for children gets 8 or 9 million zlotys alone, and in its advertising plan it is to download 19 million zlotys from the market. It made us a little nervous. So this kind of channel. I don't think they should be created for making money, so that these channels are off. We also propose in one of the nationwide programs in two time intervals, i.e. in one time band 10 and in the second time band 16 and 22, after 3 hours of advertising silence. We've heard from a lot of TV viewers that we're tired of this advertising avalanche. Regardless of who it was and where it came from, from everyone, so to speak, television managers and programme builders, we hear complaints that valuable positions are in the middle of the night, because they do not bring advertising influence, and they race with these commercial stations. So if there's anything he's not gonna make, it's either in the middle of the night or it's a pale dawn, or you don't even know when. Well, as part of these 6 hours a day in a nationwide program, of course we leave the software management of these media to choose these 3 hours, but these are the hours. Also in prime time, so that there are no more complaints that we have to, that we can't. It's a time when there's no advertising by law, and then there can be very valuable programs. These are the main assumptions of this project. I'm not saying he's revolutionary, because we didn't mean revolution either. He simply improves the current situation and opens up the possibility of further action that could still improve the condition of these media and the sense of audience that these are indeed public media. I will only mention pro forma that of course we leave this term public media, because it is also especially unknown why they would be different. These main assumptions are to be a skeleton in which the responsible sender, who is responsible for the program himself - and this is guaranteed by the law - will be able to really try to present what he thinks is best. I would also like to draw attention to the catalogue of the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, I admit, very reserved, where we formulate the tasks facing public media. It is an open catalogue and refers to the basic concepts of civil society, public debate, national identity, from which it is very easy to bring out specific and diverse programme content covering the whole spectrum of socio-economic topics. Secondly, there is a particular place among these tasks for the educational and cultural role of public media. Thirdly, it is not supposed to be a reproduction media, hence the obligation to develop various forms of Polish audiovisual works. I am, of course, very happy to answer specific questions in the further part of this debate, and I do not want to bore you with the calculation of the article after the article and its contents, especially since we are, some of us are tired of the previous point, presented in very detail, but I would like to end by raising two more points, in advance of any accusations. Firstly, this is probably the case - and this is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office - so it is said - that this project, because it is a form of public aid, and yet some new public aid, should be notified to the European Commission. I don't discuss it, and we admit it in the explanatory memorandum, the point is that there is no project on the table that doesn't require notification, there is no doubt about it. The difference is that it can be assumed that this project is much easier to get a notification, because it leaves the form to date, concerns television and radio, does not introduce a completely new third media entity, very clearly and clearly clarifies the terms of financing and the way in which this money is spent, while at the same time showing a concession through a partial exit from the advertising market. The Union draws attention to maintaining the conditions of healthy competition and if we leave advertising at all and at the same time give public aid, it must be shown that we have public aid, but we leave some of this advertising market. Of course, it might be very good in the future if we could eliminate these ads, but certainly not with such extensive media, because then it is really some colossal money. And that could be the first reservation. The second reservation may be that - of course, because it is a parliamentary project, we have not previously had the opportunity to examine thoroughly enough, so to speak - that there is precisely a BAS opinion on compliance with European Union law, and here, with a dozen or so of these regulations and directives, there is a reservation to one point that it may be incompatible with Article. 3 (1) (a) 2nd sentence of Directive 2002/21, because, as it is said, it does not sufficiently ensure the separation of the regulatory function from control activities. This concerns the National Radio and Television Council. I just want to say that, of course, if we were working on this project - and I would very much like us to work on this project too - this is a matter absolutely to be explained, because among other things. The authors of this opinion refer to an article in which the frequency allocation takes place under the agreement of the Office for Electronic Communications with the National Council. This agreement is not yet, so to speak, power, so it could be considered, but, of course, if it were to be found that the charge is still in place, it would be necessary to consider, in the course of the work, such solutions as would have removed it. I say this immediately so that at least this is not a charge, because I repeat, only when we received this project in the form of printing did we get this opinion. To conclude, it seems to us that both this catalogue of tasks and the photo from the public media of this tension connected with the discussions now being triggered, for example concerning this method of financing, and the clear and very consistent leaving the way in which the authorities are selected or elected, the establishment of the Public Media Fund - these factors should help all of us, as we are here, to find a common denominator or the plane of agreement. We want public media, but that's where I started - we don't want everyone to know about them, some just watch and listen, and nobody wanted to pay for them. We want everyone to pay and we want as many of us as possible to find content that suits us. I would like to ask for further work on this project. It's a good time to start working on three other projects, and there's no obstacle to joining these three four. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u460	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Elżbieta Raven, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was interesting to listen to this reflection by the applicant's representative about the situation of public media after a few years of doing nothing, although everyone expected reform and improvement of the situation and functioning of the media. She said that the draft submitted had existed for years - it is interesting that she did not see the light of day... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: He has seen.]] ...though other cultural ministers in the PO-PSL government announced media reform. Apparently, they felt that this project was not suitable for anything, perhaps dangerous to public media. [[Applause]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: He has seen, Madam President.]] The proposed amendment to the Act on Radio and Television is, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, to rely on an innovative view of public media. On the other hand, the analysis of the project records indicates that this modern shot simply means the achievement of the Civic Platform's long-known objective, i.e. liquidation or at least marginalisation of public media. The changes are moving not only towards their non-servant stable development, but also to ask whether they could be survived by the public media. And so let's compare the list of public media tasks in the 1992 Radio and Television Act with the list proposed in the project. Proposal for deletion from the law paragraph. Article 1a 21 defining a public service mission may have unpredictable effects, until it prevents the public media from carrying out tasks resulting from the implementation of the mission, as it will no longer be one of them. development and dissemination of programmes. What does that mean? That there will be no more public media units, but some companies that will carry out a public mission on behalf of the public or in a system of grants. Further, carrying out production activities related to audiovisual creation. So what about the theater? What will his future be? What about the possibility of making feature films? Taking into account the needs of national and ethnic minorities, creating and making available educational programmes for Polish communities and Poles living abroad, supporting artistic, literary, scientific and educational activities and sports activities. So there will be no cultural mission or patronage of public media, contrary to social expectations. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 It is proposed to rephrase in such a way that this would eliminate a significant part of the references to values without which public media lose meaning. It is no longer said that programs and other services of public radio and television should be guided by responsibility for the word, fairly show the whole variety of events and phenomena in the country and abroad, promote the free formation of citizens' views, promote the development of culture, science, education with particular regard to Polish intellectual and artistic achievements, respect the Christian system of values, as a basis for adopting universal principles of ethics or for strengthening the family. Who can be disturbed by these records? What are the reasons for their deletion? It is proposed to further emancipate regional public television branches and transform them into self-employed companies. With complete carelessness, regardless of the financial situation, further concentration of public media is being introduced, although Poland is already a European record holder in terms of the number of public broadcasters. However, there is not only conviction, but there are also international studies which show that only a strong public broadcaster is able to influence the level of the market programme. An important element of the bill is the new way of financing public media. The project's authors propose the creation of a public media fund to which at least 0,3% will be transferred annually State budget expenditure. Every bill can be changed, Parliament can do it every year. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Everything can be changed.]] The applicants themselves acknowledge that it is difficult to precisely define the scale of budgetary expenditure, because these depend on the size of the budget. It follows that today it would be a sum that does not even reach the half of the one that the National Radio and Television Council considered adequate. However, public media funding from the state budget is generally seen as the most risky, since it creates dependence on state structures and does not take into account planning needs in the longer term of programme activities. The project therefore does not create sufficient and secure funding, without which there is no independent public media. According to the project, public radio and television units, although they will no longer be public radio and television units, only some companies, develop annual financial and programme plans in agreement with the National Radio and Television Council. However, in order to obtain public funding, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they must draw up applications for funding for specific programmes and programmes. The Board of the Fund shall examine and evaluate these proposals and allocate funds - it may be said, grants, I repeat - for specific programmes and programmes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u462	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u463	Two more sentences and I'm done, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u464	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u465	Each programming decision is made not by public media editors, but by the board.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u466	Madam President, this is not public media, I must share my time honestly. Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u467	I'm done. So we give public media not to citizens, but to different groups from so-called. elite...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u468	Thank you very much. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u469	...rather of the kind of relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u470	Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform, has the floor. Madame, you have exceeded your time. We have to divide it fairly among all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u471	Mr. Marshal, the formal issue is yet to come.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u472	There you go. But give it to me then.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u473	I therefore request that the project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u474	Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't really know what really upset my previous speaker, and why my previous speaker is so upset about this project. Well, when you put three of your projects on the table, and the fourth one has already been done, because this public media robbery is unfortunately a fact, there is a very good time to put another project on the table to show what can be done for public media if we want to save them. If you are referring to these last 8 years, I would like to say that you are misjudged the time of our projects. Well, first of all, the Civic Platform definitely didn't interfere with the public media. We definitely didn't do what you did thanks to your colleague Jack Kursk, and so we didn't do the media assassination, we didn't do the purge, not even in the smallest part, the one we're hearing about today - because the press releases and what's going on in the public media are all saying - and we certainly haven't lost the pluralism of public media. We gave the media a free hand. The media worked, we didn't bother them. If you're gonna charge us with this, you're gonna make it bad. One more thing is important. It is very important in our project that we want to finance these media, however, from public funds, i.e. taxes that already affect the state budget. It was difficult to make such a reform at a time when there was a crisis in the world. Today, when we have left you the economy really in good condition and there are stable financial bases, when within a month or two you are able to make 17 billion from the state budget to pay benefits from the 500+ programme, I do not see the slightest reason why the few hundred million that my previous speaker, the applicant, could not be used precisely for the public media to be financed by our already paid taxes. We say public media, you call it national media. This isn't national media. What you propose in your laws is absolutely another kind of media of PiS-owskie, party, one-party. What is the talk of pluralism here? All the more so, we see no reason for this type of action, so that such media will be financed by the next tribute you want to introduce. And this tribute has absolutely nothing to do with your electoral promises, because you promised people that you would relieve them and not burden them. Moreover, it was very clear in the public hearing that even those who have a lot of sympathy for supporting your projects, and so they see various kinds of problems - problems with collecting these fees, with exemptions from these fees, with additional funding, with additional costs that would be on this occasion. There really are a lot of them. Besides, the public hearing showed us one more fact, and it is a fact that is really very sad and very sad to me. Public media is a common good, so we should talk to citizens about their shape. If we talk to citizens so that we only listen to those we want to listen to, and those we don't want to listen to, the microphone is turned off, then really what you're saying is absolutely nothing, nothing at all. You're talking about giving the media to the people. How can you talk about giving the media to citizens if you don't listen to them, you charge them extra charges, you turn off their microphone? In addition, in such a sarcastic way you review the project that we put on the table for discussion, for debate. The citizens who made a pact for the media say, "We want to talk." We want to talk, too. We're making another proposal. Throwing this proposal from this place today, from this tribune, shows that there is no decency in you and that there is no fulfillment of your electoral promises. I think it would be worth talking about this project, talking about how to create these media, about funding, etc. The project, which was placed on the table today, absolutely strengthens citizenship. We've been talking, for example. we talked about strengthening the field troops, we talked about strengthening the channels that should be the flagship for you: thematic channels, for children, culture, history. By God, there is really nothing wrong with this, using these channels, it would really be possible to carry out the mission. This is an excellent place to pursue what we would really like to call a mission. And one more thing. National Radio and Television Council, constitutional body. How did you think to weaken this advice when we already know - because it really doesn't have to be a fairy - that you're about to redecorate this advice in your own way? Then why create another body, the National Media Council? Why not listen to what we propose in our project and simply try to organize in a rational, smart, actually pluralistic way [[♪ The bell ♪]] Public media? Mr. Marshal, I request that this project - a really good project, well thought out, based on long-term discussions with cultural environments...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u476	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u477	... giving these cultures the possibility of being in the public media - direct to further work in the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u478	Thank you, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is probably such a problem in Polish politics that we get to work when we already lose our social mandate to it. Donald Tusk signed a pact for public media a few years ago, and there really was time to clean up the media, but they functioned just like the Platform wanted. So why not pursue change? As far as the project is concerned, here is the location of the National Radio and Television Council in opposition to this council, which will indeed raise a lot of doubts, namely the extension of competences. You may feel that this is a continuation of such a struggle within parliament, a party struggle: we will strengthen this council, and we will create a new one, and it will continue to go on. With regard to the termination of the subscription, however, this is still a burden on citizens, because this is a really large amount that will be redirected to the media according to this project. In any case, given the financial condition, the debt of our country, this money will have to find itself in some additional way and most likely Poles will be charged in another way. The autonomy of the regions is indeed a good direction - the cultural community has been calling for this for a long time - as well as the maintenance of competitions. However, I do not agree with this statement that this is an improvement in the current situation. However, the situation in public media really requires a thorough, comprehensive reform. These media are not citizens, they do not respond to citizens' needs, and as a matter of fact, we have doubts that this is still not a bit of a cover-up of the impact of this policy on the media. With regard to the provision that has been made here, regarding the public mission, that is to say, the dissemination of pro-state attitudes in accordance with the Constitution, our constitution in many elements is not pro-Citizenish, it is pro-Citizenial. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But it will be new.]] However, this party's leading role in social life, political, is based on our constitution. Given how the media functioned in the past, how they function today, perhaps it would be worth mentioning that this should be the implementation of the mission through the dissemination of pro-partisan attitudes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Liroy-March, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Imagine any big company that has a very serious problem to solve. Suppose every week the board gathers and people report newer solutions that go in exactly the opposite direction than the previous ones. Before the board took any action, such a company would have gone bankrupt. Fortunately, Poland will not go bankrupt, at least not so fast. On the other hand, when it comes to the media, I'm not that calm anymore. We are after a public hearing of the PiS project on national media. I would like to focus on improving this project, in line with the suggestions of citizens and the proposals of creative environments, journalists, while the project that we are discussing today goes exactly the opposite way. It creates budget-funded media, so it's just government media. He creates a common financial cap over them, that is, such a peerel radio committee. The only positive element of this project is the proposed ban on advertising on public television. Television funded by citizens, where you just can't bullshit anyone. I like the idea. It's a great idea. Of course, as an opposition club, we are in favour of directing this project to further work, but mainly for some of its elements to be included in the bill, which will probably be adopted by the ruling majority. We will make amendments to it. On the other hand, I do not want us to be stuck in barren disputes about this bill, because we need it very much. As a Kukiz club15, we are in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u482	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, we are considering another approach to solving difficult issues related to public broadcasting and broadcasting. Today, the High Sejm will deal with the proposal of the Civic Platform. Appreciating the efforts of my fellow Members at the PO Club, I would like to start by saying exactly what I said when we discussed the draft submitted by a group of Members two weeks ago, this time by law and justice. This bill was archaic when it was written. Let me briefly describe how I see this bill. Well, it is a law to make it the way it used to be. This time TVP and Polish Radio are back to become joint stock companies, their bodies are set up by a national council which organizes competitions. There's a fund coming up, and it gets 0.3%. budgetary expenditure and fiesta shall continue. Such an approach does not solve any of the problems of public media, which is regularly discussed by the Modern. What kind of problems? Firstly, the inadequacy of the public media support system to the changing media reality. In the project presented we see again the division into TVP, radio, regional centres, budget, national council, etc. And that's what the money is going to go for, although this time it's not from the audiovisual fee, but from the tax, from the state budget, as if this budget was coming from some pocket other than the citizens' pockets. However, today, the young generation, which we must convince to participate actively in public life, among which we have low participation in social initiatives, does not use radio or television. In this project, we can still see that the Sejm is fiercely determined not to notice it as if they were citizens of the third sort. The third problem is that this law re-inspires citizens to trust politicians. Public media competitions have been set up for years for specific people. For years, these competitions have won not the best, but only the favourites of the strongest kotery. To be honest, of the two evils, unfortunately, I prefer the solution of the PiS, according to which the head of radio and television appoints the treasure minister, because at least we know who takes responsibility for it, although both solutions are inherently wrong. Further reservations relate primarily to EU law, ma'am. In this case, as in the Law on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, in fact, Article will apply in the same way as in the Law on the Functioning of the European Union. 106 and 107. According to Art. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 undertakings entrusted with the management of services of general economic interest shall be subject to the rules of the Treaties, in particular competition rules, in so far as their application does not constitute a legal or factual obstacle to the performance of the specific tasks entrusted to them. According to Art. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 3, the committee shall ensure that Article is applied. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 and, where appropriate, refer the relevant directives or decisions to the Member States. Art. 107 provides that any aid granted by a Member State through State resources which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings is incompatible with the internal market insofar as it affects trade between Member States. The project provides for the granting of public aid and therefore requires notification to the European Commission under Article. 108. 2. The notification must be made with the opinion of the President of the OOKiK. Ladies and gentlemen, despite such a critical assessment of this law, the Modern will vote in favour of directing the project to work in committees, because it is worth working on a modern system of public media. In committees, we should focus on including in the bill solutions aimed at financing interesting projects carried out by non-public media - in order not to be literal, I would see a place, for example. for the funding of local news or publicist broadcasts in commercial radios, which have much more listening during the hours of the communication summits - a change of the formula for the appointment of the Council of the Public Media Fund to ensure its worldwide pluralism, the inclusion in the bill of solutions financing such online projects which extend the sphere of public debate or pursue their own public interest. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not naive. I'm guessing this project's gonna end up in a Seym Dumpster tonight. But from this point on, I would like to encourage the representatives of the majority who are so few in the Chamber to be more courageous, because Minister Czabański promised us all a big debate about what the public media of the future should be like. And you, Minister, I feel sorry for your fellow officers shooting at you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the knee. Because that's what happened lately at the public hearing. Pity, sir. What Mrs Raven was doing, excluding the Members' microphones...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u484	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u485	Still, I'm hoping to take all this into account. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u486	Thank you very much. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u487	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I will repeat the thesis that we should follow in the process of these projects: the media must be independent and objective, the contribution - universal, honest and universally paid. [[It's true.]] Right. And I'm going to stress this for the second time, these are words. Mrs Raven, too. [[Right.]] We live in times where reliable information should be objectively communicated to citizens and should not depend on how it is transmitted, how and by whom. Freedom of expression or freedom of journalists working in the media - these values must be understood by starting work on every draft media law, whichever side, because the effects are important for the viewer. The PiS proposes 2 billion for television - that is what I have unfortunately called it and I will stress once again - the regime-party. It's our money, Poles and Poles. Unfortunately, after this good change since December, there has been a patronage of the media that we have recently been offered by the rulers. Today we see that this is an attempt on the right to reliable information. Instead of information, we receive propaganda of success, which is not confirmed either in economic indicators or in ratings. This project is being processed, a subcommittee has been set up today. PiS has the majority, and we know he's going to be voted out, but with a good change, it's important that we proceed with an alternative project. In response to the existing situation, Members of the Civic Platform have submitted their project, which we are proceeding today. The project is not perfect, but it contains many good solutions. The Civic Platform offers 1 billion - 1 billion also from citizens' funds, hopefully not for government television, because it is a tax from the pockets of our citizens, Poles. It is proposed to set up a Public Media Fund in the form of a national legal entity which would be financed by at least 0,3% each year State budget expenditure. It's citizens' taxes. Unfortunately, we remember Donald Tusk's appeal not to pay his subscription in the form of racketeering and tribute. It was a huge mistake, because television, radio, public media, to be public, I stress, with a mission and reliable information, should be financially independent, with a permanent mechanism for financing them. The open, open competitions for board members and supervisory boards are a good solution in today's project - this is the best solution for minimising political influence and pressure on public media. The best professionals and competition. Nor can there be consent to the exclusion from this process of the National Radio and Television Council, which is a constitutional body upholding freedom of expression, the right to information and public interest on radio and television. If politicians have a little respect for Poles, they will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Civic Platform project assumes the emancipation of regional centres of Polish Television. And we as the Polish People's Party want to go one step further. If we have 16 regional governments, good regional policy, funds in regions - regional centres, because of their name and mission, should be in the management of local governments. Why does it have to be owned by a State Treasury company? Regional media is a mission in the regions, education, information, regionalism is both strengthening local government, regional centres and decentralisation of the state. Television Polish One, TVP Info should remain nationwide. Regional centres should be transformed into self-government companies. This will ensure media pluralism for the future. The project limits in one of the nationwide advertising programs in certain time bands. Which program will be less commercials, the broadcasters will decide. Receiving public money, whether from a subscription or an audiovisual fee, is an obligation. Once again, I propose the contracting of a mission carried out by both public and private media. Let them be shared between all media, both public and private. Let One, Two, Polsat, TVN, Republic, Radio ZET, RMF, Television Trwam are looking for money in an open competition for public mission programs. I stress: a public mission, through all private and public media carried out. Let them submit their offers for the best mission program. Thanks to this competitiveness, we will all be aware that we are choosing the best and most effective mission programme. It will also be an opportunity for these new, ingenious, for those who want to carry out a good media mission. Despite the many concepts of establishing a new audiovisual fee, none of these two solutions seem to be in the present form. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fair. But the most important thing is that in the solution adopted, public media is not just a channel for the distribution of party propaganda. Because the more partying in the media, the worse it gets for ratings. The more politicians' ideas to fix...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u488	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u489	...public television, the worse it is for missions and viewers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u490	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u491	And that fact is happening today. High Izbo, mission, respect for Poles. For the public media to survive...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u492	Thank you, Member, time is up. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mr Jan Dworak, President of the National Radio and Television Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u493	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! There are different public media funding systems in Europe, depending on the solutions adopted by individual countries. According to the European Union of shippers covering the countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area and selected non-EU countries, the most popular forms are the universal fee, i.e. the subscription fee that operates in 22 European countries, as well as the funding from the state budget in force in 15 countries. The subscription, which is a kind of universal fee effectively enforced and intended for public media tasks, seems to be the most mature way of financing public broadcasters. It can be said in simplification that it applies, with a few exceptions, especially in Western European countries with stable democracy such as England, France, Germany, Scandinavia, as well as the southern neighbours of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which have recently decided to finance it - through a universal audiovisual fee or subscription fee. The advantages of such a fee are predictability, independence from governments and the creation of a form of link between media and their recipients. The form of funding based on the state budget is mainly present in the east of the continent. It is used by the Baltic States, Belarus, Ukraine, but also by Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain. It is a domain of countries with a young democracy or a small population. This form of public media power supply does not seem to ensure their stable functioning. The example of Spain, where public media are currently financed mainly by the state budget, shows that any crisis in the country's economy also has a negative impact on the financial situation of public media. Greece is an extreme example here, where the dramatic economic situation and the search for savings resulted in the liquidation of public media in 2013. True, they were created again under the influence of protests, but in a very limited form and still facing financial difficulties. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: And now?]] This also points to the second weakness of budget funding, which is the high vulnerability of the media to the influence of the executive authority, in addition to instability. Projected funding of public service broadcasters equivalent to 0,3% in the proposed amendment State budget expenditure, Article. 32e paragraph. 1, which, according to the authors presented in the explanatory memorandum, would amount to just over a billion zlotys in 2016, will not result in... I remember what your messenger said in her speech that there might be more... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Yes, there is more.]] ...but on this example, which is in the justification, I will resist. This level of funding will not result in the de-commercialisation of the Polish Television programme, and will not become a necessary stimulus for all public media, because in recent years the National Council has passed on to the public media a little lower, 750 million PLN - although in 2016 it will be much less, it is another alarm bell, because the forecast says about 661 million PLN - and this 750 million PLN met the minimum needs of public radio, but not public television. In the document of the National Radio and Television Council of Poland, the new model of the functioning of public media in Poland indicated that after summing up the demand for television, Polish Radio and regional radio stations, taking into account the optimal way of carrying out statutory tasks of public broadcasters on the basis of the current legal state, this sum should ultimately amount to PLN 2680 million. When assessing the needs of broadcasters, they took into account the need for a reduction of revenues from commercial activities, mainly advertising, to at least 1/3 of the current advertising time, as indicated by the National Council. Moreover, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum of the proposed amendment, the proposed system for financing public service broadcasters from the State budget is different from the financing system in force at the time of Poland's accession to the European Union and will therefore most likely require notification to the European Commission. According to the National Council, a period of several months - the proposed law would enter into force on 1 January of the following year - is too short a time for negotiations with the European Commission. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 16a. The 8th proposed amendment of the law was introduced in the Polish Television by limiting advertising messages, with the exception of self-promotion on one of the national antennas, eliminating advertising - this is what the rapporteur said - during the three hours of issue in the band between hours. 10 to 16 and during three hours of emissions in the time band between hours. 16 a 22. According to the National Council, the introduction of advertising restrictions in connection with stable and adequate public media funding is a legitimate demand. The designed solution introducing advertising restrictions in the Polish Television on one of the national antennas at certain times of the day does not seem to be the best idea. In the above-mentioned document, this new model of functioning of public media in Poland, the National Council considered all concepts of gradually reducing advertising in Polish Television: in individual programs, in individual months of the year, days of the week or times of the day. On TVP1 and TVP2 most of the advertising revenue is generated at the time of the biggest audience, it is so-called. prime time. This phenomenon is different in specialized programmes. Most of the revenue on these antennas brings out spots outside the time of the highest ratings. The solution of introducing different rules for advertising at times of the year, days of the week or times of the day or for various programmes - universal, specialized programmes - would, however, require the application of very complicated rules for negotiating advertising contracts and accounting for advertising time in designed frameworks. As a result of the very factual analyses carried out, it turned out that the most rational would be simply a uniform reduction in all programmes at the same time. With today's 12 mins the advertising time would be reduced in the first year to 8 min in the hour, in the second to 4 min in order to ultimately reach the level of up to 2.5 min, approx. 2,5 min in the third year, while maintaining the ban on interrupting the broadcasts by advertising of course. In the case of Polish Radio, advertising revenues no longer cover 20% of operating costs and are mostly generated in the main programs: Program 1 and Program 3. The total abandonment of advertising in Programmes 2 and 4 will be without significant impact on the commercial revenues of the sender. With regard to the One and the Three, the same solution is proposed as in the case of the Polish Television. The draft amendment to the law in Parliament proposes new regulations relating to the appointment of members of the Management Board and supervisory boards in a contest procedure, the detailed rules of procedure of which would be laid down by the national council by means of a regulation. These are changes that consistently improve the model functioning in the years 2010-2015. However, there is no way to supplement the composition of the company's bodies in the event of the creation of vacancies, e.g. as a result of the resignation from office. The National Council has formulated such proposals following the experience gained from two competitions with academics on the basis of the amendments introduced to the Radio and Television Act in 2010. The obligation to conduct a full competition procedure whenever the composition of the Supervisory Board needs to be completed may lead to temporary impediment to the functioning of the Board, since according to the wording of the draft law the Council must act in full composition. Following the 2011 competition, the National Council called for the possibility for members of the National Council to apply from among those who had previously received a recommendation from higher education institutions to be able to submit candidates during their term of office. In the section on public media tasks, in particular Article. 1, for the implementation of the public service mission, the project is largely limited to the current Radio and Television Act. Projectors have decided to remove from the current Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 A law which identifies public service obligations, such elements as those which affect the performance of specific tasks affecting the richness and diversity of content and consequently the value and quality of the programmes, e.g. taking into account the needs of national and ethnic minorities and communities using regional language, tackling various types of pathologies, shaping health-promoting attitudes, promoting sport, taking action for education, in particular media, etc. Designed art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 contains the definition of a public service mission, but it is still general in nature and can be interpreted differently by both broadcasters and the assessment bodies. In the case of a fairly general definition in the draft public media tasks it appears necessary to clarify the public service mission by introducing a requirement to conclude with broadcasters so-called. duty cards, i.e. a kind of contract in force during the term of office of the Management Board. What is important and what I would like to stress is that the European Commission is currently assessing the statutory provisions proposed by Poland in this area and it seems that at the level of working talks this kind of agreement has actually been reached. He, of course, still needs confirmation by the new government and representatives of the new institutions, in particular the UOKiK, which conducts these negotiations. The Charter would set out the minimum shares of programmes performing missionary tasks in the field of information, publicity, culture, education and sport, including the level of new programming content, and the participation of the Prime Minister. The Charter would be bound by annual financial and programme plans, including investment and technological plans submitted to the National Council for evaluation and approval by resolution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 of the Act amending the designer provides for the expiry of the existing Act of 21 April 2005 on subscription fees. According to Art. 9 Act on subscription fees The National Council of Radio and Television in exceptional situations, where specific social or random considerations so warrant, may cancel or depreciate arrears in payment of subscription fees in instalments. An entity required to pay subscription fees shall submit an application for redemption or distribution into instalments to the National Radio and Television Council. It appears that it is not appropriate that subscribers are deprived of the right to hear by the authority of the request for redemption or the distribution of payments into instalments where the creditor has established the existence of a arrears or the transfer of an enforcement title by way of enforcement proceedings. In addition, a number of cases relating to the redemption or distribution of claims on instalments have been challenged by subscribers to administrative courts, which also requires the courts to hear and perhaps, if so decided by the court, also to review by the administrative authority. The point is to review all these provisions concerning the so-called. pending cases relating to the redemption and payment of subscription fees into instalments so that they are completed in an appropriate manner by an administrative decision. Finally, I would like to highlight the main features of the parliamentary project in the assessment of the National Council for Radiophony and Television. The main advantage of this project is drawing from good and bad, but our, Polish, 25-year experience and achievements of the media. The change in this project is only, it seems, the elements requiring improvement in the media's existing functioning. I would like to say that since the Middle Ages the principle of Ockham's razor has been known, so as not to multiply existence beyond need. It seems that this project is in line with this principle, unlike previous projects that reject it, it seems, practically all the work to date, without examining the experiences of good and bad. Apart from the details of the solutions, the National Council welcomes in the project the trend of socialising media authorities with unchanged selection procedure, emancipation of public television branches, which will allow for further strengthening of regional media in line with the tradition of self-government in Poland. The weakness of the project is the budgetary method of financing the media. While research shows that it is gaining the greatest approval of Poles, the experiences of other countries say that in order for the media to play their social role well, they should be financed by citizens. To do this, however, one condition must be met: the media programme must be endorsed by society, its various environments and groups, it must be combined and not divided. This seems very difficult to achieve today. Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The foundations of public media, or the framework for their functioning, are being built here, in this Chamber, at the heart of Polish democracy. I know that today a subcommittee has been set up to develop these three projects previously submitted by Law and Justice. It seems that the method of proceding itself is also a signal, as will be the decision on these media and further, on the policy decisions in the media. It is here that concrete decisions will be made, which will allow us to hope that these media will not be a tool of conflict and tension for the ruling party, and will become an institution serving the agreement of the entire Polish society. I would very much urge you not to reject any project, since there is already a subcommittee to work on important changes in Polish media, which require these changes, but as much radical as thought out. I would very much like to appeal to the High House to consider in this subcommittee all the projects, including the Civic Platform project, including the Citizens of Culture and also the proposals of the National Radio and Television Council. Otherwise, the result can be achieved, the majority in Parliament rules, has power, but we are talking about a very important institution whose functioning should be expressed as far as possible by political and social consensus. If that's not the case, I'm afraid even these changes will have a short life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u494	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendments proposed by this Act meet the expectations of our citizens. The regulations on the audiovisual charge to be added to each electricity meter by many Poles are considered to be highly harmful. Already now its originators are talking about reducing the proposed amount from PLN 15 to PLN 12. But even a reduction in the amount of the fee does not solve the problem of an unfair system of these charges. Our parliamentary offices are being stormed by citizens who do not want to pay a compulsory audiovisual tribute for the additional electricity meters they have. in garages or basements. We can't stay deaf to these signals. The funding of the media through the statutory recording of a percentage of the expenditure of the State budget for the Public Media Fund is the solution expected by society and the most equitable. That is why I ask in the context of the solutions proposed by us: Will the PiS Members seek justice for the whole society, or just for the selected groups? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u496	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! Minister! As is well known, the former Prime Minister and the leader of the Civic Platform called on Poles to boycott the payment of a radio-television subscription. In eight years of your reign, you have done nothing to lift this unjustly charged witness. Thanks to your declarations, many of our countrymen have fallen into debt in the payment of their subscription. Finally, now that you are no longer in charge, you are presenting a proposal to abolish this public tribute, but you are not proposing anything to people who have been in debt for the past 8 years. Why are you just presenting this project now? You were eight years old for this. How embarrassing are you? Do you want to be benefactors today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u498	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u499	Thank you very much, Marshal. Allow me, before I say a few sentences about the bill being drafted, to refer to the last statement made by the Member. Mr. Speaker! As you have already said, it would be worth knowing what the possibility of submitting an application to the National Radio and Television Council - as Mr Dworak has just said - is worth knowing so that it is precisely those wrongly charged, as you said, that the fees may be remitted. I want you to get to know me first, and then speak from the Parliamentary Speaker's Speaker. That's one thing. Second. I am addressing Members of the Law and Justice and, in particular, your President. Madam President, you have always spoken loudly at all the meetings of the Committee on Culture in the last term of the Sejm about the need to process all the projects that need to be given a chance. Why do you not want to give a chance, but you are the only one proposing to reject this project at first reading, when we could consider together what good solutions are proposed in this project, could be transferred to your project, which I know will be decided upon in the subcommittee? Let me draw your attention to one very important thing. Well, the Poles do not want to pay tribute, because this tribute, which we say will come from the budget, is already paid taxes, and the state to those already paid you want to add another tax, which Poles do not want to pay, on TV, which at the moment unfortunately, I am very sorry, but do not consider as their TV. They consider her to be extremely stubborn television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, please consider this again, especially since, as you know perfectly well, the level of public television audiences is falling. Madam President, I would like to ask you a question. As...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u500	Thank you, Member. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u501	Just a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u502	No, thank you, you're out of time. [[Correct, Marshal. One sentence of correction.]] Mrs Elżbieta Raven, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One sentence of correction. Madame, we are not introducing any new tribute. The audiovisual fee is this. the same as the tax, as the licence fee, only half as much as the current one for those who comply with the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u504	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Marzena Machalek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u505	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It was amazing in its sincerity to confess the applicant, who said: we kept this project, we kept it in a drawer, but since the Law and Justice presented theirs, now we are pulling out and snooze - it is. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: No, because we have projects in the drawer.]] It's really amazing. You were in charge for eight years, and of course you were able to present this project. The question is why you didn't present this project when you could have introduced it and even voted it out. Indeed, this project does not solve any public media problems, even those problems are aggravating, and even if implemented, it could disrupt their financial functioning. This was confirmed by the head of the National Radio and Television Council in his speech. In fact, most of his speeches were critical of this project. Too bad the punch line wasn't consistent with what he said earlier. On the other hand, my question is: Why do you think that your innovative and healing approach to public media is alternative, but mainly to the values that create the mission of public media, such as following the responsibility for the word, showing genuine diversity, promoting the free development of citizens' views, serving to strengthen the family or respecting the Christian system of values? Maybe it's a good thing you didn't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project, when you were in charge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u506	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with this draft law, I would ask the applicant's representative to explain why among the tasks mentioned in the new Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 2nd Act on Radio and Television has no tasks related to promoting the history of Poland. Would applicants want to continue, as during the PO-PSL coalition governments, the history of Poland was lied about, and our heroes, especially the steadfast soldiers of Poland underground, did not have their place in public media? I would also like to ask about the term of office of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board referred to in Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 and Article 2 Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9th revised Radio and Television Act. Should one of these bodies be dismissed, will the term of office of the newly appointed member be a joint term or an individual term of office? I would also ask you to explain who will determine the action of a member of the supervisory board to the detriment of the company referred to in Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the amended law, and what applicants understand under this broad concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u508	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. I was very curious to read the project by the Civic Platform on Media. The proposal shows that they should be financed from the state budget and that funding would amount to about PLN 1 billion per year. According to the National Radio and Television Council, whose state you are such ardent defenders, the financing of public media should be at the level of PLN 2.5 billion. My question is, what are your plans to cover this difference in funding? I was thinking that you could even support your project if you wrote in it that this difference would be eternally covered by Mr. Donald Tusk for what he did by calling people not to pay their subscription. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u510	Thank you. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u511	Mr. Marshal! Dear Submissive! My questions relate to how you want to avoid the doubts I'm about to discuss. In the first paragraph, the question about the mission that you have outlined in such a way that it seems to be only slipping through the thematic channels, while it should be legible and traceable in its entirety to the media's programme offer. The proposal for the autonomy of regional branches is, of course, twofold and twofold, i.e. a positive and negative scenario. A positive scenario, i.e. market success, which is generally achieved by relativization of content, as a result of erasing missionary needs. But there could also be a market failure, because the output potential of branches is what it is. On the third point, namely the Public Media Fund, I would like to say that the credibility of the applicants' environment in this subject is questionable. The example of the Polish Film Institute cited here is not objective, because the decisions of this group constantly ignored part of the cultural needs of society. It is worth recalling, for example, a film that is Roja's biography. Referring to Mr Dworak's statement, I am far from using it, and here is a quote: The advantage of the project is to draw from good and bad sources. So I don't want to draw from the wrong source, and I urge you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The High House for the same. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u512	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u513	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a dozen questions, but, of course, the rules are regulations, which is why I'm gonna get right to the point. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: I will not be able to write it down.]] I would like to know: Is the limitation of advertising to certain channels and hours proposed in the project due to any analyses or calculations? If so, what is it? Currently, the TVP branch can be managed by the Director on a one-man basis. This project creates the possibility of creating even a three-member board. What's the point of saving up costs and creating a son? Why in Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is it merely about making it possible for public political parties to present their views? Didn't applicants from the Civic Platform realize that even in the current faulty electoral system, among others. can there also be civic, non-partisan groups in Parliament? Let me remind you that Kukiz is currently in Parliament15. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u514	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Has the proposal to convert regional branches of Polish Television into independent companies been preceded by economic analyses? Currently they are subsidised by the headquarters on Voronicz. They will not be able to maintain themselves in local markets. Currently, local radios are barely maintained with large subscription support, whose operating costs are much lower. Should the separation of local branches of Polish Television or even the creation of joint radio-television companies in the regions create propaganda tubes for local agreements? Without the support of the authorities of voivodships and cities, they will not be able to operate. Instead of controlling the Marshals of the voivodships and the presidents of the cities, they will be their generous principalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u516	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! I have four questions for the designers of the amendment. The projectors from the Civic Platform Club stress that the aim is to amend the law on the innovative approach of public media and to highlight the exceptional nature of their tasks. It follows that the Civic Platform has not been interested in such novelty for the past 8 years of the Civic Platform's rule. We know from experience that she was interested in the young propaganda cep. Where's the glare coming from? [[We're a long way from you, really.]] The project provides for the establishment of a Public Media Fund, a national legal entity, which will receive at least 0,3% annually from the State budget expenditure. Why is this generosity now when citizens have deprived the Civic Platform of its influence on the shaping of public finances? [[We left the good deed behind.]] As we know, such a solution will be regarded as granting public aid to a company, a company governed by commercial law. How designers assess the chances of obtaining the so-called. Notifications? The Sejm Analysis Office considered certain provisions of the Novel to be incompatible with one of the European Community Directives. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: I was talking about this.]] What designers have proposals for change to avoid this collision? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u518	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u519	Dear Marshal, Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! [[Ha, ha, ha!]] I will admit, ladies and gentlemen, that I have come with very serious questions, but the circus, which political parties usually make out of the media, inspired me to make a joke out of you. One of the messengers, specifically Mrs Rauk, said that when a public broadcaster is present in a given country, it would be very good, it would be better to be 100%. It's in North Korea. I would like to remind you that in North Korea, television shows that in the 2014 uniform. Korea successfully won: 7:0 with Japan, 4:0 with the United States, with the People's China 2:0, then defeated Portugal, in the quarter-finals defeated Germany only 2:1, finally in the finals, I'm sorry, in the semi-finals she played with South Korea, and in the finals she defeated 8:1 with Brazil. Except North Korea wasn't on that uniform. I heard there was also a landing on Mars. The state on TV is doing exactly the same thing. I would like to show you - here I would just like to conclude - that it does not matter whether it is a PiS or a Platform or a PSL and who creates these media. You called them public, and you just own them, and the PiS calls them national, and it's mostly national. That's the difference. That's the difference. So it's gonna be Mars. But I'd end the happy one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The story of how he manipulates himself on TV - let him be - a bitter example of Mr. Cold. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I think it's Zimoth, not Cold. Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u520	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u521	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Actually, it's a sad debate. for a lot of reasons. I wanted to say three and ask two questions. Firstly, although the project provides for high objectives for the mission, it does not fully meet the challenges of today's public media. Secondly, I regret to say, as we have said many times in previous months, that this is probably an attempt to rehabilitate, because this project is 8 years late when successful applicants could have introduced much better than these solutions and probably more consistent with modern conditions. This is a sad debate. also because it is an answer to the Law and Justice project, which also does not sin by objectivity, does not sin by such a healthy approach to the functioning of public media. If we really wanted to, if you wanted to fix the public media, you would probably have to ask the cultural community to write such a project and adopt it without significant amendments. I have two questions. I wanted to ask you about the balance sheet, which would result in the fact that air time would be limited, the time allocated to advertising on television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second question is, do you think the project will be notified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u522	Thank you. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u523	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To those colleagues who did not work in previous terms, I just wanted to draw attention - because maybe it didn't sound good today, so I am improving - that this project was already on the table, for 9 months it was proceded to the cultural committee. I don't know why Law and Justice colleagues don't remember that. Unfortunately, he didn't get the majority, we didn't have the luxury to decide for ourselves, but the project was, so don't tell me he wasn't here before. [[It's PSL's fault.]] Just like you're about to unravel some hysteria about Donald Tusk, who's so terribly incriminating that he was able to make him not pay his subscription. I think it's hysterical after all. My surprise - until I noted it, really - is the statement of Mr.John Dworak, head of the national council. Well, Mr President said that if there was funding of the media from the budget, it would be a great vulnerability of the media to the influence of the rulers. The question will probably remain in the rhetorical sphere, but do you think that if it is an audiovisual contribution or an audiovisual fee, so to speak, then there will not be much influence on what is happening in the media? Mr President, you really need to watch. for those projects that are on the table, and it's the chills on the back that go through. On the other hand, I have a question for the applicant in connection with the competitions. Well, today there are competitions, better, worse, different. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it better to throw these competitions in the basket, or is it better just to make them properly realized? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u524	Thank you. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u525	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! And I wanted to thank Minister Dworak, because this is what I noticed, that if there is, unfortunately, an audiovisual contribution in this project of Law and Justice, we have a regime-party media, and in the case of a tax charge on citizens - government media, and that is what we must avoid. That is why it is so important to see the integrity, objectivity and journalistic independence so wisely. Unfortunately, Mrs applicant, we do not have previous projects and I regret that the majority of the government will probably reject this project, on which we should proceed as an alternative to developing the most rational solutions for public media, in fact for viewers. Because I notice that political ambitions actually dominate here, but no one analyzes the effects, and the effects we already have - just ratings, a decrease in ratings. Unfortunately, no one will be watching niche TV, and that is regrettable. My question to the applicant. How do you feel about the solution proposed by the Polish People's Party so that the regional media are the media managed by regional authorities? And the next thing you know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning the proposed amendment, both to one law and to the other, so that the mission is carried out by both public and private media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u526	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Krzysztof Czabański.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government has not taken a stand on this project, and as a representative of the government for the reform of public broadcasting and broadcasting, I believe - but this is my position as a proxy and not a government - that the project submitted by the PiS Parliamentary Club is a sufficient basis for talking about public media. I am pleased to note the voices that declare such a conversation because we are open to improving this project. Thank you very much. [[Bravo! Where's listening to the citizens?]] [[The revolution of this project.]] [[Yes. And the citizens go home.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u528	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, representative of the applicants, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u529	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for all your comments, because I admit that if we were to work on this project, it would probably be worthwhile not only considering but also introducing some of them. Let me get this straight. I'm in this room a little bit, and I don't remember a project that would come out of Parliament in the form that it came into this parliament. This is the job of using various suggestions, comments, opinions, expertise, calculations. In the case of the parliamentary project, the project itself prepared for the first reading is, of course, much poorer with such materials, because there are no such possibilities yet. At a time when it is being processed, of course both seymous and club agendas will be able to prepare and calculate gradually, and opinions, expertise. On the other hand, I would like to refer to some of the allegations put forward here, the comments, so let me say yes. I was most pleased by the voice of President Jan Dworak - there are still some colleagues from Law and Justice - because President Dworak has clearly proved by his speech that neither the Civic Platform fully implements the policy of the National Radio and Television Council, nor the National Radio and Television Council is the agenda of the Civic Platform. I have to say, I think that's a very good statement. This is the case with the pronunciation of this speech, but if we had other experience with the subscription fee... I would really like to ask you not to blame Donald Tusk for the fact that Poles stopped paying because Poles stopped paying when television was ruled by the Coalition Law and Justice - League of Polish Families - Self-Defense. From this coalition there were successive boards, other presidents and with this program there were already such things that Poles then simply said, as they are now beginning to claim, that they stop paying for such television. From what the then president of the Platform said, that the subscription is an outdated tribute and a racket related to the possession of the receiver, especially the Modern one should be happy, because it was actually some kind of horror. At the moment we can use public media without having receivers, having a mobile phone, the Internet, a thousand different things. And I admit that in the construction phase of this project... In fact, he is a prostrate, in this sense he was in the desk, very different solutions of the Civic Platform, which were, on which work, as Mrs Augustine said here, lasted 9 months. The project was slightly different, for example. The media council and the fact that there's a copy here 0.3%, this is my experience. That's where it crashed 'cause the numbers were in there. This amount, which was to be valued each year, at some point turned out to be an amount that could not be passed on to the budget in the current state budget situation. This experience has made us propose such a structure this time. At that time, this advice and the allocation of money were different, but then there was the emancipation of centers, then there was everything as if it were creating the essence of this project. So in that sense, it's not something we wrote in one night. Of course, he's got gaps, I agree. Actually, this online platform, I mean, you'd have to find... Here is the place, during the work there is a place for such solutions. Maybe it's like the most important thing. Mrs Raven said that such a saying was that 0.3 here, at least that any law could be amended. Everyone can be changed, the audiovisual fee can also be changed. I'm sorry, but when I hear that argument, it makes me sick. Any bill can be changed. You can raise this fee by 100%, you can lift it, you can do a thousand different things. So exactly the same rules apply to this solution as to any other, if we are talking about financing, if there is any funding at all. I cannot agree, however, that the fact that there is a deduction from the budget of a certain percentage makes the media dependent on power, and that the authority appoints from head to toe all who rule there, it does not depend, or that it is a fee that this authority also divides. So what if I pay the audiovisual contribution when she goes into the hands of the President of the National Media Council, and this President is appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. Isn't that an addiction? There are creative teams in our council and they take responsibility for it. There's no such thing as addiction. So that's what affected me the most. It's a case that gets so emotional around here, and I just get it, 'cause I think I'm looking at it a little differently. This is a matter of this mission and these tasks. This is the way it is treated, so it is written that the fulfilment of the mission means, in particular, that it is an open directory. I can't help it. I don't think of the media as a tool for propaganda, I just think of it as a creative institution. And if it's a creative institution, it's worth it. legislators from writing down every dot, every comma, every semicolon, what this creator is supposed to do. This is a directory that is an open directory that refers to concepts in which everything fits exactly. If we work on this project and I really care about it, it is also possible, according to legislation and regulations, to complement it, because it does not go beyond the scope of the amendment, right? So instead of hanging dogs on this project - I apologize for the colloquialism, but the hour is already getting late - it might be worth saying that it would be good if there was anything else added there. Perhaps it would be good. I wouldn't want this addition to be in the tone of discussion during the so-called. Listening, I mean it wasn't It's called a public hearing on Tuesday, and for me to find out that the bill is needed to decommunize the media and to get rid of those bugs that are sitting in these unmarked rooms. That's the alternative. Please, you can only see that perspective and reject it. But, like I said, you can't... If she is an alternative, then all the more so do I, at least, think that she should be in the joint work. And it's not like we didn't do anything, because in the case of public media on this platform, in the same role, I'm standing for the third time in these last terms. One bill vetoed the president of that time and we failed to reject the veto. The second law crashed by 990 million, and I still remember today, there were no such budgetary opportunities at the time, and this was about to enter, that was when the crisis started and there was a completely different situation. On the way there were projects developed in the Ministry, expert, former designers and thousands of other projects. This proposal did not come out of nowhere, from the ceiling, but from those proposals that were, it selects some elements, perhaps in this regard not everywhere they are well emphasized, but when you work on the bill, you can do all of this. There were a lot of questions about regional centres. I said very clearly, in the best times, in 2015, public television received PLN 440 million, because we have a report of the national council, on which I am based. If it is that 1100 million of this big TV gets 40% And the regional centers are 23, that's 700 million. So don't worry about what they're gonna hold on to, because they're gonna have a lot more money than they are now. It's not a donation, it's a charity that the regional centers are throwing. It's hard to call grants some kind of... In any case, this emancipation is supposed to give them stability and funding - a sense of strength. I repeat, it may not be enough, then they can connect with radio companies. Are there precise economic calculations? There are no precise economic calculations, because none of us, in our club, works either on TV or on the radio, and it's just hard to predict. As far as these advertising restrictions are concerned, like I said, I'm not interested. When it comes to channels for children, culture and history, I am not interested in economic effects, I am interested in the fact that there should be no advertising in these channels. It's just that in this perspective... On the other hand, as far as these limitations are concerned, this time without advertising, because the sender will have the right to choose these hours, I cannot predict exactly how much loss this is. I will say that there is compensation for public service broadcasters, because I believe that besides all other rules... I mean there should be no more restrictions for public service broadcasters. I answer to Mrs Możjanowska whether regional media can be self-government media. At that draft law, where there was also the emancipation of these centers, the greatest resistance, opposition and discussion, she was very widely consulted in the field at the time, it aroused that these regional media will take over the Marshal's offices. And I still remember it today. I don't think that's... I mean, you shouldn't do projects that make people happy. At that time, it aroused a terrible resistance and had to be such fuses that it would not be thought that it would come under the authority of the Marshal's office. It's not a good idea, I think there's so much... If anyone, these are the creative and scientific environments of these regions, these local communities, NGOs, civic organisations. I would give influence and power to this environment, and the Marshal's offices, please, can even, as it is now, co-finance or support financially, but far from affecting who's in charge and who's building the program. I'm always telling the truth, and this time it's my opinion. Let's give it to the local communities, don't give it to the local authorities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u530	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min. 59 hours 21 min 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland (prints Nos 511 and 519). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a great honour and duty to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Let us remind you very briefly that the law extends from 7 to 45 days the deadline to provide information about possible threats to the defence or security of the state or the protection of security and public order caused by possible entry and stay of a displaced or relocated foreigner in Poland. In particularly justified cases, that period may be extended by a further 14 days. The Act provides that resettlement or relocation will not be possible if the Head of the Office for Foreigners receives at least one information confirming the possibility of a threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of security and public order. The Act also waives the obligation of the current presumption that failure to provide information within a period of time means that there is no such threat. The Senate examined the law at its meeting on 12 May 2016 and adopted a single amendment to it, which brings it into order, complements and harmonises the rules. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 86f paragraph. 4 Act on the granting of protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland in the form of a bill under consideration provides that where the entry of a foreigner in the territory of the Republic of Poland and his stay in that territory may constitute a threat to the defence or security of the State or the protection of security and public order, the foreigner shall not be resettled. At the same time, this provision omits an equivalent decision in case of relocation, since it merely states that the Head of the Office for Foreigners informs the competent authority that the foreigner has not been qualified for relocation. In the Senate's view, it should be appropriate to correct the provision so that the lack of relocation, as in the case of resettlement, is directly due to the provisions of the Act. The Senate also considered that the wording of the Article was inadequate. 86f paragraph. 4, according to which the Head of the Office for Foreigners informs that the authority of the State from which the relocation is to take place is not eligible for relocation. If the foreigner is not qualified for relocation, the country from which the relocation was to take place may be notified, rather than the country from which the relocation is to take place. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the Senate resolution at its meeting on 18 May 2016, recommends the adoption of the Senate amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u532	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u533	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great honor to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland, print No 511. The amendment presented by the Senate has already been carefully examined in my speech on the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, so I will no longer repeat it. I would just like to say that as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice we support the solution adopted by the Senate and we will vote in favour of the Senate amendment, which is against the rejection of the Senate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u534	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on print no. 511 on the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. As the rapporteur has already said, this amendment harmonises the relocation and resettlement procedure. This is a precise amendment and the Civic Platform Club will oppose its rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u536	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland, and in principle on the Senate report, which was adopted by the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! This law has been discussed many times in the Sejm, so nothing new can be added here specifically. It passed practically unanimously through all stages of the legislative procedure in the Sejm and the Kukiz club15 voted in favour of this law each time. This is a law that really increases the capacity of our services and bodies to ensure security, extends, as was mentioned here, from 7 to 45 days waiting for information to be obtained, also increases the group of institutions to which queries can be addressed, among others. It's about the Border Guard chiefs or the Homeland Security. So that at each of these points increases safety with regard to what people we will accept or relocate to Poland. The Senate amendments, which have already been discussed here in principle, are very valid. The first of these amendments actually eliminates certain shortcomings which arose in the procedure in the Sejm, namely that relocation procedure has been omitted somewhere in relation to refusal to enter the country where certain shortcomings have been identified or there are doubts as to whether a given person gives a security guarantee. The second of these amendments is a purely technical amendment which indicates, where the procedure has actually been interrupted or a person has no right to enter the country, that in fact the reference must refer to the country from which the relocation was to take place and not to the country to which it is to take place, because the procedure is already closed there. For this reason, Kukiz15 will, of course, vote against the rejection of the Senate's amendments, i.e. in favour of their adoption. However, on the occasion, we would like to remind the government that we will support any such legislation, because it somehow solves problems with regard to the future, but they still do not solve the basic issue, so we will appeal to the government to make it clear that it is in favour of not accepting the so-called. immigrants within the quota of relocations, especially because our partners from the European Union have allowed themselves to enter a very large group of uncertain people in Europe who are in danger without any control. So that once again we call on the government side to make it clear and clear that Poland will not accept immigrants under the quota of the relocation system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u538	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u539	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland included in print No 511, the report of the committee is in print No 519. In the beginning, I would like to stress that the work on this bill was carried out in an atmosphere of full understanding for the essence of the change. I believe that in the case of laws affecting the level of security and the implementation of Poland's obligations to European partners, it is necessary to proceed in such a way that these are substantive and not side issues, as an area of discussion. That is exactly what happened, and I wanted to thank all the members of the committee for that. The amendment itself involves extending the deadline for the Head of the Office for Foreigners to consult the safety and public order authorities listed in the Act in relation to persons notified for relocation to Poland. This is the result of changes made by the Council of the European Union in such a way that the time for relocation is extended from one month to two months. As a result of the adoption of the amendment, the current 7-day time limit for consultation by the Head of the Office for Foreigners will be extended to 45 days, and in exceptional cases this consultation may last up to 59 days. However, the provisions introduced by the amending act will not apply to foreigners who have not completed 13. Year of age - this is the result of the European Union's rules. The law also introduces the principle that even one negative position of the authority to which the head of the Office for Foreigners asked for a foreigner's check will prejudice that the person will not be accepted by the Republic of Poland as part of the relocation. The Act adopted by the High House on 13 April 2016 was passed to the Senate and the Senate tabled one amendment. The amendment tabled by the Senate is orderly, complementary and uniform. In particular, it concerns the provision of the Article. 86f paragraph. 4 of the Act and corrects this provision so that the possibility of relocation, as it is in the case of resettlement, results from expressis verbis from the provisions of the Act. In addition, the Senate also considered the wording adopted by the Sejm to be inadequate in Article. 86f paragraph. 4, according to which the Head of the Office for Foreigners informs that the authority of the country from which the relocation is to take place is not eligible for relocation. If the foreigner is not qualified for relocation, then it is possible to notify the country from which the relocation was to take place, and so proposed the Senate in the amendment. Given the nature of the amendments, the Modern Parliamentary Club obviously supports the amendment tabled by the Senate, i.e. it will vote against [[♪ The bell ♪]] rejecting this amendment, as suggested by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u540	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u541	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Insight on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act on the amendment of the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland adopted on 13 April 2016 proved the reasons of the Senate Chamber. The rush, the strain of work and the complete lack of focus cause that the text of the Act that has already been passed should be rebuffed. The rapporteur discussed the amendment in detail, which is why I will not refer to it. High Izbo! The law must be clear and unambiguous, and its interpretation and application must not give rise to any doubts or difficulties. In agreement with the amendments of the Senate approved by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I would like to inform you that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, on behalf of which I have the honour to speak, will vote in favour of the amendment proposed in the print report No 519. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u542	Thank you. No questions. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and certain other laws (Prints Nos 512 and 533). I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Kopcinska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws contained in print No. 512. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on 13 May 2016 referred the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. The Health Committee, having considered this resolution at its meeting on 18 May 2016, after considering the amendments tabled by the Senate, proposes that the High Sejm adopt amendments from 1 to 14 and amendment 9 should be considered together with amendment 12. Part of the amendments is more specific, these are amendments 3, 4, 10 and 11. Amendment 1 deserves a distinction because it was recognised that the transfer of blood donor data to the Polish Red Cross in order to issue a badge by this organization should take place only with the consent of the donors themselves because not every donor is interested in receiving such a badge. Amendment 2 states that it is not justified to maintain a marking order for blood packaging preventing the identification of donor and recipient of blood in the event of autologous donation. Amendment 5 introduces an appropriate definition for the type of tests referred to in the provision. Amendment 6 changes have been made to indicate that the rule applies to blood donors. Amendment 7 had to remove the erroneous reference in Article. 1 in point 18 in point (a) d and f act due to the fact that the Military Blood and Blood Centre and the Blood and Blood Centre of the Ministry of the Interior and Administration do not distribute blood products, recombinant coagulation factors concentrates and desmopressin. Amendment 8 considers it necessary to set deadlines for reporting by public blood services units, which will make the obligation more real. Amendment 9 should be supplemented by the provision of the Article. 27 Law on the Public Blood Service to clarify the task of the public blood service organisation to carry out the supply of blood products, recombinant concentrates of coagulation agents and desmopressin. The consequence of this amendment is amendment 12 supplementing the provisions of the Pharmaceutical Law to indicate that distribution of blood products, recombinant coagulation agent concentrates and desmopressin may take place for the purpose of an individual order. At the same time, Amendment 12 complements the Law on the rules on the assessment of the premises, the scope of activity and the working time of the hospital pharmacy unit established in the public blood service organisation. It was also decided to change the deadlines by which data to the e-blood system will be transmitted to the full extent - as regards Amendments 13 and 14. Ladies and gentlemen! The Health Committee proposes that the proposed amendments be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u544	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 10 December 2015, the European Commission brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union because of Poland's failure to comply with EU directives on blood donation and blood treatment. The government has prepared a draft law which implements into the Polish legal system of the European Union directive on: firstly, standards of quality, safe collection, testing, storage and distribution of blood and its components; secondly, a system of ensuring the safety of blood and its components, namely full traceability of blood and its components, from the blood donor to the recipient and vice versa; thirdly, rules of import of blood and its components from outside the Member States of the European Union, which were previously not regulated in Polish legislation; fourthly, the creation of an electronic system of e-blood containing information on blood donors, adverse reactions and adverse events. This system will also be used for reporting. Member States are obliged, inter alia, to do so. to submit an annual report on blood management. The other proposed changes, most importantly, are the harmonisation of the data that should include the legitimacy of the Honorary Blood Donor. In addition, the principles of applying for the title and badges of the Honorable Blood Giver have been amended. The scope of subjects entitled to apply to the Minister of Health for the donation of an honorary donor of at least 20 litres of blood, the Honorary Blood Giver - Deserving for the Health of the Nation has also been changed. The authorised entities are the head of the organizational unit of the competent public blood service and bodies of nationwide honorary blood donors associations. I would like to say that the time to introduce a law is 3 years, 2017/12019. The funds will be obtained from the European Union and the cost of implementing the law is estimated at PLN 120 million. As my colleague said at the committee meeting, the Senate amendments were adopted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u546	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u547	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the resolution of the Senate in print no. 512. 14 amendments were tabled by the Senate to the government's bill amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other acts. I will not discuss these amendments because your rapporteur did so, she presented them in very detail. Part of the amendments are clarification amendments, part of the amendments are time-defining amendments. The Civic Platform Club will be against rejection, i.e. with the adoption of the Senate amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u548	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws, print No 512, I have the honour of presenting our position on behalf of the Kukiz Club. The Senate introduced 14 amendments to the text of the above-mentioned Act, as the previous speakers said. Most of them are indeed editorial and precise. The Senate also came to the conclusion that the transfer of blood donor data to the Polish Red Cross in order to issue a badge by this organization should only be done with the consent of the donors. The Senate also considered that it was not justified to maintain a blood packaging marking order in case of autologous donation. In addition, the resolution corrected the erroneous reference in the article. 1 in point 18 in point (a) d and f and set deadlines for reporting. The Kukiz Members' Club15 has no comments on the amendments of the Senate and will vote in favour, i.e. against rejection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u550	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u551	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws on printing No. 512, following the report of the committee in print No. 533. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to stress the fact that the work on this project was very substantive, there was an atmosphere of awareness of the importance of legislation both in the context of improving safety in the handling of blood and its derivatives, and in the context of the obligation on us to adapt the Polish sphere of legislation to the regulation of the European Union. The purpose of this Act, as we have repeatedly mentioned during the discussion, also today, is to transpose into Polish legislation the requirements of four European directives, including a directive laying down standards for quality and safety of collection, testing, preparation, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components, directives on certain technical requirements for blood and blood components, directives on blood traceability requirements and notification of serious adverse reactions and events, and directives on Community standards and specifications relating to the quality system in force in blood establishments. Act passed by the High House on 13 April this year. has been transferred to the Senate, while the Senate has tabled 14 amendments. Part of the Senate amendments is more precise, editorial or corrective, amendments 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11. We wanted to see such a very good change, namely Amendment 1, in which the Senate considered that the transfer of blood donors' data to the Polish Red Cross in order to issue a badge by this organization should take place only with the consent of the donors themselves because not every donor is interested in receiving such a badge. It is so obvious, I would say, of course, but only the Senate decided to regulate it in this way. In Amendment 2. The Senate has come to the conclusion that it is not justified to keep an order for blood packaging that prevents the identification of the donor and recipient of blood in the event of autologous donation. It's like another obvious amendment, it seems to have to be agreed with. In Amendment 8. The Senate considered it necessary to set deadlines for reporting, which is also a positive change. Amendment 9, according to the Senate, had to be supplemented by the Article. 27. to clarify the task of the public-service bodies to carry out supplies. The consequence of this amendment is Amendment 12 concerning the distribution of these products and aspects related to the operation of hospital pharmacy. Amendments 13 and 14. The Senate decided to change the time limits [[♪ The bell ♪]] data to the system will be transferred to the full extent. Given the nature of these amendments, the Modern Club obviously supports these amendments tabled by the Senate, i.e. it will vote against rejection in accordance with the recommendation of the committee. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u552	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At this point of our sitting today we bow down, we examine the Senate resolution and the amendments to the bill which the High House passed in the past time, namely the Act on the amendment of the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. The Act, the Act adopted by the High House, fulfils, first, the requirement imposed by the European Commission's directive, secondly, it meets the challenges, needs, expectations, this requirement of looking forward and creating conditions for the functioning of this area related to health protection, creating conditions, coming out in the 21st century, so that it can keep up with other areas developing in the health service. The Act defined priorities for action, mechanisms, defined the way and conditions of blood donation, as we say, also defined other conditions that ensure safety, provide mechanisms for functioning, show this process, the whole way it is, so to speak, blood from the donor to the destination. I am convinced that these regulations, which are compatible and which harmonise our system, also provide a good basis for the planned introduction of an e-blood system that brings us closer to and enables the day-to-day and practical alignment of our health systems with the health services of the European Union countries. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of including and adopting the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u554	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarni Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The main objective of amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws is primarily to implement the provisions of European directives into Polish law. These changes must be made because they are the ones to guarantee safety in the area of collection, testing, preparation, storage, delivery and transport of blood and its components. I hope that the regulations introduced will have a positive effect on the search for blood and donors for patients with rare blood types. I also hope that the number of complications in patients will decrease. During my work on the Law at the 16th session of the Sejm, I tabled an amendment to the draft law, which was finally adopted by the opinion-makers of the Health Commission in the course of the procedure. It is in the current version of the Act. I am pleased that every sentence, even a member of the opposition, is taken into account if it is substantive and possible. I am aware that the ruling in the bill does not solve all cases and will not satisfy everyone. I can also add that this law deviates from my idea of changing the whole system, among other things. We did not introduce a ban on commercial activities for regional blood donation and blood treatment centres, which seemed like a good solution to me. However, it must be taken into account that the statutory deadline, when these directives should be implemented, expired on 27 April 2015. So we don't have time for further discussions. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government bill along with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u556	Thank you very much. Three parliamentarians signed up for the questions. I don't see any more calls. I'm shutting down the list of people who are saved for the question. Question time - one and a half minutes. As the first Member of the Polish People's Party, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u557	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, My question will not concern the Senate's amendments. However, it is crucial, of which we do not seem to be aware today in the crowd of work, and it is about limiting the execution of blood orders to, I quote, the right centers. According to the National Consultant, defences in the field of transfusionology Prof. Jolanta Korsak, an innocently sounding record in the near future, may prevent a number of operational procedures from being carried out, due to the introduction of regionalisation of orders. I ask the Minister to refer to this plea and also to answer the question of what must be done to avoid such a situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u558	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very important that we introduce a uniform blood marking system for transfusions, especially before events such as World Youth Days. Going a step further: Are there adequate blood supplies for transfusions in connection with World Youth Day? This is a holiday period, which may additionally be a burden for blood banks and hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u560	Thank you. And I ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u561	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the ICT system, which is also the subject of this amendment. This system is very important for the success of the whole operation, the whole implementation. In fact, this system will carry out all these tasks that we all think are crucial for maintaining safety, improving the quality of blood distribution, improving the availability of information about blood resources that we have across the country. My question is this: At what stage are work on the creation of this system? Has the technical and functional specification of this system been established yet? As part of your work on the system, do you cooperate with the Ministry of Digitalization? Do you, as part of this work, take into account the clues that may be coming from this ministry? Do you consider the possibility of using, I do not know, a part of the infrastructure that is already in operation for this system to begin its activities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much ask you to send me a written reply. If there is a specification, then also with this specification. It could be in electronic form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u562	Thank you very much. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Katarzyna Głowala. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u563	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the answer to Mr Sosnowski's first question about the provision on restricting blood orders to the right centres, this provision was primarily aimed at rational blood management, because there are situations, for example. The Regional Blood and Blood Centre in Raciborz carries blood to the Regional Blood and Blood Centre in Białystok, and can supply the nearest center that it needs. Therefore, it is the cost of transport that regional centers bear, and above all the rational management of blood, so that they do not drive to the other end of Poland, but deliver it to the nearest center that needs it. Unfortunately, there were such situations that blood was transported to the other end of Poland, and the regional center of blood donation and blood treatment, which was the closest that needed it, did not receive it, had to draw it from the other end of Poland, which was irrational. Therefore, it is primarily about rational blood management. [[And when there's not enough blood in this center? What then?]] Therefore, the recipe will work so that if it has the nearest one, we do not take it from the other end of Poland, just from the nearest one. As for Mr Kaczmarczyk's question about reserves for the World Youth Days, such reserves are so called. emergency reserves, they function. So that there's security, we have security for the World Youth Day. We are now embarking on a large campaign on June 11th at the National Stadium on the occasion of the World Honorary Day of the donor launches a great educational campaign, a promotional campaign on blood donation. We're trying to secure it for a vacation period so that there's no shortage of rare blood types. In general there are reserves, we are very well prepared for the World Youth Day in this area. As regards Mr Suchon's question, the system, the e-blood proposal has been formally assessed, the substantive assessment of the proposal which has been submitted to the European Commission is currently underway. There is still work with the Ministry of Digitalization, I personally go to the Ministry of Digitalization and participate in the work with the Minister. We are already at the stage of establishing certain issues, so that the work with the Ministry of Digitization is ongoing. As far as the specification is concerned, I'm gonna find out if there's a possibility of a transmission, okay? I don't know if I can upload the specification at this stage, make it available. If I can, I'll make it available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u564	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Joanna Kopcinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u565	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This project we are catching up on, which my previous speakers were kind to say, to notice. The amendments proposed by the Senate by the Health Commission are fully complementary to the draft prepared by the Ministry of Health. The Health Committee recommends adopting the amendments proposed by the Senate. I ask the High Sejm to accept the bill in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u566	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 19 May. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform. There is no Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u567	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, second in terms of area and population center of Świętokrzyskie voivodship, has been known as a steel town for many years. The tradition of the steel industry goes back to a year here. 1813, when the owner of the Ostrowiece estate, Jerzy Dobrzański, founded the first steel factory in the village called Kuźnia, which is now within the city limits. During these more than 200 years, the steel industry had different fates, and the existing plants had different names. In the second half of the 19th century, their dynamic development was connected with the formation of the Great Piece and Ostrowice Works, which grew into the second largest steelworks in the Kingdom of Poland at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. The existence of such a thriving steel plant was of great importance to Ostrowiec, resulted in an increase in the number of its inhabitants and in the formation of further companies. The development of the steelworks did not stop the World War I event, although the destruction made by the Russian, Austrian and German troops was enormous. The rapid reconstruction of the plant led him back to the top among the companies of the Staropol Industrial District, transforming himself into a public limited company. The period of World War II brought further damage due to the methodical looting of steel machines and equipment. Nearly 3,000 were transported to Germany. wagons loaded with machinery and raw materials, and losses reached 80% The property of the steelworks. What the Germans failed to transport was blown up. The losses would have been even greater if it hadn't been for the attitude of the Ostrowiec steel workers who had hidden some of the machines and tools at risk of their lives. As a result, production was partially started as early as 1945. The period after World War II is the time of the development of the steelworks named Marcel Nowotka. This development was symbolized by the construction of a new metallurgical plant, which started operating in 1972. The size of the steelworks during this period is evidenced by the fact that in 1981 it employed more than 17.5 thousand. employees. In the 1980s, the situation of the plant was difficult, and this was influenced, among others. shortages of raw materials and materials. It deteriorated further after 1989 when it turned out that Polish steel industry, technologically backward, was unable to compete on the free market. The 1990s were therefore a time of struggle for survival, caused by the extremely difficult financial situation of the steelworks. It led to its bankruptcy in July 2002, but the bankruptcy fortunately did not mean liquidation. Production continued and in 2003 the steelworks were purchased by the Spanish Celsa group and until today functioned as Celsa Huta Ostrowiec SA. The emergence of a new investor, a new owner meant big investments and made the plant a modern company producing, among others. Rolled products, monolithic crankshafts for diesel engines and folding shafts for marine engines. At this point it is worth asking yourself: Does this mean that the company's situation is perfect? No, I'm afraid not. Unfair competition from producers from Ukraine, Belarus and China in particular and the very high costs of electricity used for steel production, much higher than in many European countries, make the situation of Polish steelworks not one of the best. The prospect of implementing EU climate policy directives also raises concern. Their implementation is threatened by the fact that after 2020 the mills can be closed. High Seym, May is the time when Polish steelmen celebrate their holiday. Once the days of the steelworks in Ostrowiec were celebrated throughout the city. Today they have a much more modest character. On the occasion of this holiday, I would like to make my best wishes, to wish them well and to wish them well. I wish their hard and responsible work would always be appreciated. I wish the Celsa Directorate-General to develop and overcome existing difficulties. I support this action and will continue to support it not only as a sharpshooter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A parliamentarian, but also as a grandson and son of a steel worker. God bless the steel work! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u568	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, I was asked to patronize the initiative held in the Special Schools Group in Łomża. It was an educational project carried out in the form of a city game called a Ticket to the past. I have been participating in this school for years, and I have therefore decided to support young people and teachers, and to present you with an example of good practices implemented locally in a small school community. The script for this project was written by the school's teachers. It is in line with the programme basis for special schools preparing for work. The script was noticed and appreciated by the Łomżyńskie Centre for Education Development in Łomża, winning the 2nd prize in the competition for the best scenario of the educational project. The city's past ticket is based on the rivalry of the reported teams. It assumes the transfer of knowledge about the local student environment, in this case Łomża, about its monuments, places that still exist today and are a trace of the past. Young people take part in interesting trips, exits, while gaining knowledge about their small home country, visiting marked with the history of the place, performing tasks related to the area and trying to score as many points as possible. Here the question arises: What the authors wanted to achieve. The most important objective is to promote the independence of people with intellectual disabilities. This task is very difficult. I know this from my own experience - the mother of a girl with intellectual disabilities. The whole game of the past is subordinated to the preparation of young people to perform different social and autonomous roles as far as their development and active adult life can be concerned. The maximum emancipation of the student is a goal that every teacher and parent has in a special school. Sometimes this goal is only an unrealistic dream to fulfill. Unfortunately, there are obstacles that are impossible to avoid. However, most people who are experienced in working with children with disabilities have successfully accomplished the pursuits of hard work, work from scratch, searching for the right path. The script of the educational project written in the form of a city game is such a search, looking for two ways to self-emancipate the known to the student of the routes, e.g. from school to home, from house to shop, etc. Being alone in the city is a real challenge for every student, but also for parents or teachers. Often at this distance the student is accompanied by a parent, grandmother, aunt. Sometimes the road is crossed on foot, sometimes by means of communication, e.g. MPK. The authors of the project have given the opportunity to achieve autonomy in this area. They practiced in practice, how and where to buy a ticket, how to get from point A to point B. They chose an attractive form of urban game for students to smuggle in a large amount of knowledge about the surrounding world student. The project also aims to achieve another objective. It is very simple: real integration. A disabled person in urban space can function equally with a full-time person, including a bus, a shop, on the street. As most often appear in the space of the city, get used to differentness, disenchant your image, overcome indifference or fear. The aim is to make the good part of society aware that it is important not to be afraid of the disabled. On the contrary, it is time and time to get to know him a little better. The game is supposed to break patterns, stereotypes, teach mutual tolerance. The project is based on close cooperation between schools and institutions and local companies. By using public transport properly, he is to promote proper behaviour on buses and to teach mutual kindness. Through the historical thread he is to arouse love for a small homeland, and the motives of multiculturalism in our territories are to deepen respect for another man. Institutions such as the Municipal Communication Company, the Doll and Actor Theatre in Łomża, WORD, the Museum in Nowogrod, the Tykocin Museum and many other people involved joined the fun together. A special school from Warsaw was invited to participate in the game. I think the project I've presented is worth spreading. I encourage other special schools as well as mass schools to learn about the history of their own region, to create new projects or to inspire themselves with this project or similar projects. Finally, I would like to ask you to vote for the Special Schools Group in Łomża, which is taking part in the Aviva Foundation competition. In this competition, the school fights for Tomatis hearing therapy equipment. The whole school community is asking for a vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on initiative: Tomatis Hearing Therapy, Special Schools Team, Lomza. Link to the vote: www. It doesn't matter to me. pl/initiative, 878. Every vote counts. This way we can help children with disabilities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u570	Thank you, Member. And I ask you to take the floor of Mr Paul Chiefnernaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u571	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The central pomerania after 8 years of government of PO-PSL became a region excluded by communication. The inhabitants heard from politicians every moment only promises about road construction and the development of the rail network. Despite previous assurances under the governments of PO-PSL did not reach Koszalin and Kołobrzeg also high-speed rail. Only after winning by the Law and Justice elections did it turn out that a good change is possible. From 29 April, high-speed trains run regularly from Koszalin and Kołobrzeg to Warsaw and Krakow. The travel time to the capital was reduced by 2 hours, which is 1/4. Starting these connections is a very good change for the inhabitants of the region, but also for all tourists who are going for a holiday on the beautiful Polish sea. At this point, I would particularly like to thank Mr Czesław Hoc, the Member of the European Parliament, who has been seeking for a long time for the high-speed railway to reach his family's Kolobrzeg. Ladies and gentlemen! The launch of new rail links is also a proof of a change in thinking about Poland, which is being carried out under the rule of law and justice. The essence of this change is the perception of Poland as a whole, not just individual islands of large agglomerations. Good infrastructure is needed by the inhabitants of smaller centres as well as by the people of the metropolis. At this point I would like to recall the words of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Lech Kaczyński, who visited Sławno in May 2009, just this place considered it appropriate to emphasize that Poland in Sławno or in the larger Koszalin is the same as Poland in Warsaw, Krakow or Tri-City. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u572	Thank you, sir. And I ask for the floor of Mrs Iwona Michalek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are people and associations who help Poles in the East and in the West. Today, I want to sacrifice my speech to them. The Motorcycle Association of Polish Aids Abroad the East-West was established by motorcyclists and people who widely understand Polishness and giving. The motivation of the association is the desire to support Poles living outside the borders of the Republic of Poland, the East and the West. The association refers to history, as evidenced by the logo of the association of the pre-war motorbike Niemen produced in Grodno in the second half of the 1930s, but is oriented towards the present. The aim of the association is to raise the social position of Poles permanently living abroad of the Republic of Poland, in the East and in the West, by facilitating their access to Polish education and culture, bringing Poles from outside the borders of their homeland closer to each other, strengthening their sense of belonging and national dignity. The association carries out the above mentioned. targets in multiple forms. One of the most important forms is to fund scholarships for Polish children and young people living abroad who are educated in Polish schools and universities, to fund scholarships for Polish language teachers in places where Poles live abroad. I would like to say that the association currently has 17 scholarships from Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania and Kazakhstan. The next form is the organisation of inter-school exchanges and mid-year stays for pupils and the Olympics concerned. For example, in September 50 children of Polish origin will come from Ukraine and the association will organize their stay here for a week. Such projects are carried out every year. In addition, the association organizes exhibitions of Polish artists, also provides material and intangible assistance to children of Polish origin. The most important thing, of course, is what I said, funding scholarships, but not only - also contact with Poles abroad. And I want to say that these Poles are very, very thirsty, very thirsty. The Association has been operating since 2009. I would like to say that in 2010 the first race organized by the association was a very significant rally, namely to Smolensk, 4 months after the Smolensk catastrophe. Each of us - I was a participant in this rally - each of us, we were 40 motorcycles, brought a part of the plane. I've got it, too. I'm treating her like a relic right now. We go everywhere, mostly to the East. From 2010 until this year, the association organized on average two rallys per year, very far away. Ten and eleven countries we're visiting, and I'd like to say... I am talking about this because, ladies and gentlemen, the association brings together different people of different professions, and we all have one goal: to help young people who have Polish origins. The association rebuilds the Polish cemetery in Brody. I do not know if you know that there is a Polish cemetery in Brody, Ukraine, from 1920, where more than 2 thousand are buried. Polish soldiers - overgrown. The association's almost rebuilt it. The cemetery is basically made, rebuilt again. The association gets money through various actions, also through charity balls. Finally, I wanted to say - I have to mention one name - that there would be no association, there would be no action organized by the association, if not for one person - Rafał Lusin, who deals with it, brings together all people, is very empathetic, smart, creative and helps children. It is worth talking, ladies and gentlemen, about such people, it is worth talking about such associations, because they are quiet, they do not speak, only work for the good of Poland here and abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u574	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! May is the month in which in Opole region, and not only in Opole region, in the whole country, in county cities, in municipal towns and in smaller towns, the Firefighter's Day is held. In Prudnik such celebrations took place on 11 May, in Olesno and Nysa - on 12 May, in Kędzierzyn-Koźlu and Opole - on 13 May, and today ceremonies took place in Strzelce Opole, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will take place in Krapkowice, Kluczbork and Namysłów, on 25 May in Bank and Głubczyce. This year it was so unfortunate that they covered themselves with the Sejm meetings, so I regret that I could not personally attend these celebrations and be with the firemen. Therefore, allow me, through this message, to convey my warmest wishes and respect to the fire service veterans, officers and employees of the State Fire Department, members of voluntary fire services, bridesmaids, bridesmaids, members of youth fire teams. I try to emphasize at every step that the intangible and material value of human life and possessions that firefighters, often risking their lives, save. Therefore, on every possible occasion, I stress that firefighters, both state and voluntary, are based on the involvement of people, often taking their own time, on the involvement of people on the basis of volunteering. The role of firefighters especially in local communities, where they are often the only very dynamic associations for local communities, must be stressed. Therefore, once again I pass on to all firefighters and civil servants of the State Fire Service and to the members of the voluntary firefighters my appreciation for their sacrificial service, effort and sacrifice. I hope to be able to celebrate with you personally next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u576	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Teresa Nolas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u577	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Tonight, for this brief moment, I will return to history. After all, history is not only a past time, it is realized in the lives of nations, and under no circumstances can it be separated from the present. It is a kind of value of history carried over generations to the next. Today's very sad story is an image of the fragility of human existence, in this case depending on the invader, which were German and Soviet invaders during World War II. The tragedy of these events took place on 28 February, 10 May and 20 May 1942, and the burden of my family's experiences on my land was permanent in the memory and conscience of people, bearing the experience and picture of the great harm done in our nation. This year there is another 74th anniversary of the pacification of the village in the Dwarf and Zamość district. This pacification was an organized armor campaign against the civilian population, which aimed to intimidate and discourage the conspiracy struggle in the resistance. Head of the Gestapo in this area Kurt Engels and his Deputy Ludwig Klemm It was in February and May 1942 that they decided to deal with the population living in the villages of Orłów Drewniany, Kryniczki, Wiszenki, Anielpol, involving significant forces of German police and Ukrainian troops in German service, so-called. The navy police. The action began with arson of the village, not allowing anything to be saved. So all his possessions were lost in the fire. Those who moved by flames or by burning buildings were fired from precincts. In the order of death, innocent civilians were selected and executed without sacrificing the elderly and children. 9-year-old Mary Hawrylak of Wiszenek died with a toy in her hand. Young boys were ordered to dig a hole into a common grave, and they were treated with bullets. The inhabitants of our villages were also killed by entire families on their farms. That's how Anastasia Water and her two sons Janek and Tadzio were killed. Other young boys were strapped to their hands and chased to a waiting transport to take them to the camp in Majdanek. Many of them never came back. This crime was undoubtedly a punishment for cooperating with a partisan from nearby forests. Kurt Engels and Ludwig Klemm in their cruelty were so perverse that they arranged for mass executions of so many human beings, as they themselves described, to have a good time. At that time, in its dispatch to London on June 3, 1942, a government delegate to Cyril Rataiski informed about mass executions of civilians in these districts, listing three villages: Eagles, Krynicki and Wiszenki. In addition to pacification, Zamość is also a mass displacement. The first attempts were already made on 6 November 1941. On that day Poles were suddenly expelled from the village of Huszczka Mała and Huszczka Wielka. The residents were given 20 minutes to pack their luggage. The main wave of displacement began on 28 February 1942, and lasted until March 1943. Between 3 and 8 December 1942, the village of Wirkowice in my municipality of Izbica was displaced. During this period 117 villages were displaced. In total, more than 40,000 were displaced as part of the operation. persons. All resettlement activities were extremely brutal and were a politically intended movement for the settlement of their own. Those who were strong and healthy were then sent to the Reich, weak to the camp in Oświęcim. The tragic fate did not miss the youngest - the children of Zamość. Children were forced away from their families and placed in barracks with barbed wire. There was no talking about seeing your parents. Many times the desire to see children has been paid for by death. Over 30,000 were transported during the occupation. Children to the Reich. The tragic picture of such great suffering presented in these few sentences should be remembered forever. Nor can this statement address the current risks arising from the socio-political situation of Europe and the world. As a nation so experienced, we still have the right to talk about it. Today, it wonders whether the world is able to understand the dimension of that suffering that Poles have suffered, and whether it is able to appreciate this suffering in an appropriate way, just today, in times of globalisation and integration. Are we still there for the world? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only those who can be put to the core of obedience? I think that no one to whom life has fortunately spared similar national experiences can really understand it, and even if we do, we will ask to respect our history and our voice. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u578	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 21 May 2016 Caritas Archdiocese of Lublin will be experiencing the 25th anniversary of the reactivation. Before the decree of 14 September 1945, the Bishop of Lublin Marian Fulman established the Diocesan Association of Christian Mercy Associations Caritas, who needed help, cared for the active in Lublin during the interwar period of the Society of Christian Mercy. St. Vincent. The new organization was founded on the basis of the statute of association and aimed at uniting Catholic charity in the diocese. The year came in 1950, and similarly as in Poland in Lublin, the development of assistance to those in need was stopped by the decision of the communist authorities to liquidate the existing Caritas structures. For many years, concern for the needy has been placed in the Charity Department of the Diocesan Curia. When Caritas was reactivated as a charitable institution of the Catholic Church, the bishop of Lublin Bolesław Pylak, by decree of 24 May 1991, appointed Caritas Diocese of Lublin. Following notification to the Bureau, The statements of the Council of Ministers on 16 October were obtained with appropriate certification and Caritas Diocese of Lublin obtained state legal personality. It wasn't the end of change. As a result of the administrative division of the Church in Poland in 1992, Diocese Caritas adopted the name Caritas Archdiocese of Lublin. Caritas is a church charity. That is why it is important to have a spiritual and religious formation that will fully identify the workers with the mission and style of action of Caritas and treat their work for the poor and needy as a service and a witness to God's merciful love. On May 21st, during the celebration of the 25th anniversary Caritas Archdiocese of Lublin Fr. Bishop Józef Sparrow will dedicate the new facility. It will thus be the official and solemn beginning of her activities. The construction of the Charity Centre began in 2008, but after 3 years the work was stopped due to a lack of funding. Thanks to his great efforts and determination, Fr. Wiesława Kosicki, director of Caritas Archdiocese of Lublin, on 2 December 2014 a contract was signed for funding the project: Caritas Charity Centre in Krasnystaw. It was a milestone in the construction of the Charity Centre, which was completed at the beginning of 2016. The two-storey building, fully adapted to the needs of people with disabilities, with a total area of 640 m2. Its most important element is the home hospice, which will provide medical care for the obstetrically ill in their homes. The beginning of its operation is planned for the fourth quarter of 2016. The Centre already operates the Centre of Therapy and Rehabilitation, which helps people in financial difficulties, providing psychological guidance and rehabilitation. Since January, children have been taken care of by a lounge equipped with a computer room. The Volunteering Centre has already started its activities, supporting people who are marginalised and at risk of social exclusion and coordinating their assistance. The new facility, in addition to specialized medical care and care for obstetrics, provides psychological, rehabilitation or spiritual support for anyone who needs it. High Seym! A quarter of the century of the existence of Caritas Archdiocese of Lublin is above all a lot of effort and effort of those who have undertaken to lead this great work of mercy - the mission of bearing faith, hope and love to the most deprived. I warmly greet Fr. Director Wiesław Kosicki and Fr. Marcin Grzesiak and all those who create this beautiful work, and for the years to come, I wish you full satisfaction with the fulfillment of the vocation, which is to support the weakest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u580	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u581	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Even 150 years ago, on May 19, 1866, in Galician Babina a co-founder of Polish independence, defender of Lviv and the Bolshevik slayer Tadeusz Jordan Rozwadowski was born. He came from a family of many generations of military traditions - his ancestor was awarded during the Vienna service, his great-grandfather fought alongside Kościuszko, his grandfather fought in the November Uprising, and his father fought in the January Uprising. Tadeusz Rozwadowski developed his military career in the army of Austro-Hungary, where he served the rank of general. He showed excellent leadership during World War I. Even before regaining independence, the Regency Council of the Kingdom of Poland entrusted him with the task of organising the reborn Polish Army. He was the first head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. As commander of the Army, the East Gen. Rozwadowski effectively directed the defence of Lviv against the Ukrainians, contributing to the Polish victory. He also gave great credit to the country in diplomatic service as head of the Polish Military Mission in Paris, among others. effectively countering German intrigues in the Silesia case. Undoubtedly, however, the general gave his country the greatest credit during the war with the Bolsheviks. At a critical time of war, on July 22, 1920, he again became the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. He stopped the rude retreat of Polish troops and then planned and conducted the victorious counteroffensive. His vast knowledge, outstanding commanding abilities and optimism have largely decided about the miracle of the Vistula. A few days ago, we celebrated the 90th anniversary of the May bombing, during which General Rozwadowski was definitely on the side of the legal authorities of the Republic. This anniversary has become an opportunity for some poorly-known politicians to lay flowers under the statue of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. It is therefore worth recalling that the result of the assassination was not only the death of nearly 500 soldiers and civilians, the years of economic stagnation and corruption, and consequently the humiliating defeat in September 1939. The direct effect of the assassination was also the imprisonment and murder of Gen. Rozwadowski. Gen. Tadeusz Rozwadowski still awaits his place in Polish history and in the pantheon of our national heroes. Without him, there would be no independent Poland. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u582	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 May we celebrated the next anniversary of the May bombing. In 1926 at 3 p.m. 17.30 fights began between government troops and Józef Piłsudski's troops. This military act by the marshal motivated the need to repair the state. The three-day fratricidal fights between the Piłsudski camp and the legal government led by President Wojciechowski began in Warsaw. During that time 379 people were killed, including 164 civilians, and 920 people were injured. The assassination itself was very well planned. First, conflicts with the police were artificially provoked, then the troops faithful to Józef Piłsudski joined the action. After three days of fighting, Witos' office resigned and President Stanisław Wojciechowski placed his office on the hands of Marshal Sejm Maciej Rataj. These events almost led Poland to civil war. Already after the assassination, academic autonomy was reduced and unfavorable dictatorships of the environment were persecuted. The organizers of the assassination gave orders which led to the fact that the Pole was forced to raise his hand on the Pole. It was a huge blow to the Polish society. He was deprived of many rights and freedoms and started dictatorial governments of sanation. There was a place of isolation in Bereza Kartuska, which operated until World War II. However, there were also many nationals or folks who were rightfully present there. Therefore, I think that today in the Seym of the Republic of Poland we should pay tribute to all those who lost their lives in those May days of 1926. The story of the assassination should be a lesson to us today. Every Pole's life is priceless, so let us remember that artificial and irresponsible division of the nation in the past always ended tragically. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u584	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Szulowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! May this be for many of us, including the inhabitants of Puławy County, one of those special months when we mention our heroes - cursed soldiers. Already in a few days, 24 May, the 71st anniversary of the battle in the Stocki Forest, the village near Puławy in Lublin Voivodeship, which was completed by the Major's group. Mariana Bernaciaka, pseudo. Orlik, supported by the branch of Czesław Szlendak, Max. This is one of the greatest battles of the anti-Soviet uprising. About 170 guerrillas faced an expedition of NKVD and UB in the number of about 700 people equipped with armored transporters. After a whole day's struggle, the soldiers of Orlika won. Several dozen NKVD soldiers and 10 UB and MO officers were killed. On the WiN side there were 8 and 12 guerrillas killed. This was not the only spectacular military action carried out by Orlik's branch against the communist authorities. Earlier, on April 13, 1945, in Wola Zadybska, the Orlika branch broke down three operational groups of the CWB. On 24 April 1945, he broke up the District Public Security Office in Puławy, releasing 107 prisoners. On May 1, 1945, he occupied Kock and then crashed the UB operating group under Annawka. After the battle in Stocki Forest on 15 June, he seized the Żelechów and crashed the MO precinct. On July 27, 1945, he released about 120 prisoners from transport near Bąkowce. On February 5, 1946, in Czernice village in Kłoczew commune, the KBW operating group was crashed. Finally, on March 10, 1946, in the Gończyce region near Garwolin, he fought with the Red Army. Major Marian Bernaciak was killed in an ambush by the forces of the CWB and troops in the village of Piotrówek in the war. Masovian on 24 June 1946. Hi to the memory of this steadfast, heroic soldier cursed, previously an officer of the Polish Army, member of the AK ZWZ, commander of the guerrilla unit of the AK! High Izbo! In the centre of Puławy, very close to the place where Orlik carried out his action, to this day stands a monument to a Polish and Soviet soldier, in quotes of the heroes of the joint fight for liberation of Puławy, commonly considered a symbol of enslavement and Soviet occupation. It's time for the final removal of such monuments. It's time to make a monument to the real heroes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u586	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members! Dear Messenger Brothers, before the Ecrans! You're probably watching us. So it is that in our parliamentary service people sometimes find it difficult, difficult to deal with situations. You are aware of the fact of our power, but also of our infirmity as Members. However, in a situation where we have unexpectedly received various news about our subjects, i.e. those who come from our districts, we need to do something about it. I am therefore in this situation, because today I was nailed with information from the Green Mountain Ark Mutual Assistance Foundation, which is asking me to intervene in a case that looks something like this. The Foundation received a letter from President Zielona Góra with a sudden demand to leave buildings where 10 homeless people live, including a single mother with a child attending school, and there are offices, management staff of the other two branches of the Foundation, accounting services, social administration, etc., etc. In addition, the foundation operates two branches in the nearby Nowogroda Bobrzańskie and in the Bogatynia in the war. Lower Silesian. She invested 150,000. in facilities that have been ruined and at the same time carry out, as if it were not for the local government, own tasks associated with the creation of a strategy to combat exclusion and poverty in the region. The letter commands immediate departure from the used objects in mode up to 2 weeks, until 6 June. Of course, you could say why I present this writing and why such a formula. The trouble is that we have a long weekend in the near future, probably in a communication sense to and from office, and the homeless will be homeless for the second time. The problem is that in our modern reality, we are very often more zealous and more actively leaning over animals, over some other social sensitivities, and we leave another person very often in such a protective imperfection. Therefore, in connection with this letter, having no other means of reacting, fearing those people who are led by this foundation, I refer from here to President Zielona Góra, the speaker of the Seym. Mr President, I am aware that this is not the competence of the Member, that it is up to the councillors of the places to be surrounded by this, but I ask you very much to stop this administrative violence. Please reconsider the proposals submitted by the Foundation in a spirit of consensus and cooperation and concentrate official energy on supporting such projects, not on multiplying restrictive expectations. You know, it's not like that, of course, that the truth lies only on one side. The Foundation sent a rather weepy letter, aggressive in the tone, probably officials are right, too. Without prejudice to your point of view, I realise that these 10 people, including the mother who takes care of the child, will have nowhere to go. In view of the above, I ask for this sensitivity. At the same time, I ask the Foundation to cooperate closely with the councillors of the city of Zielona Góra, because it should be in their competence and interest that this should be the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u588	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary statements are a good opportunity to talk about our history, about important events in history not only Poland, but also our small homelands. Today, he would like to present the story that took place in Rozwadów - Rozrodów is currently a housing estate of Stalowa Wola - 72 years ago, exactly 18 May 1944. On that day, the Gestapo decommissioned the headquarters of the National Army Diversion Division, Wolf Lyko. I'm gonna take care of you. I'm gonna take care of you. I'm gonna take care of you. Several Home Army soldiers managed to escape from the German manhunt, but bullets and grenades did not miss two Polish heroes. During the action, the commander of Kedywu Stanisław Belżyński nicknamed Kret was shot. On the other hand, the wounded and unconscious Stanisław Szumielewicz's nickname Kryspin Gestapo took from headquarters, hoping that they would force testimony on him. He didn't betray anyone. Despite his efforts, he did not regain consciousness by dying on his way to Stalowa Wola. The remaining soldiers and liaisons were lucky to escape. These soldiers, of course, later took part in further wars, fought bravely and soon gave their lives for free Poland. The only survivor of the war was Czesław Kaminski nicknamed Glaz and he was the one who reported these events to historians. Yesterday in Stalowa Wola, the Kedyw Foundation on the 72nd anniversary of the liquidation of the headquarters of the local Kedyw facility organized a commemorative day dedicated to the soldiers of the Home Army who died 72 years ago in the fight against the German invader. In the diaspora church of St. Our Lady of the Scapular Mass was celebrated in the intention of fallen heroes, in order to go through the streets of Rozwadow in front of a memorial plaque placed at a conspiracy place where a dramatic fight took place. In honor of the heroes were laid at the table of wreaths and flowers. It is worth noting that a family of brave soldiers and many young people who felt the need to honor those fighting for the free Stalowa Wola took part in these celebrations. Thanks for organizing the ceremony are due to the Kedyw Foundation, and especially to Mr Mark Wróblewski, who takes care of the historical seat. Mr. Marek is trying to make this place fully reflect its significance from the years of World War II. There was even a good idea to turn this place into a museum. This is a very good initiative that deserves recognition and above all support. I hope this topic is open. Already during yesterday's festivities at the former headquarters of Kedyw, Wolf Lyko, one could see an exhibition of militaries and souvenirs. In honor of the murdered commander and officer of the diversion of Stanisław Bełżyński, the street on which the former headquarters of Kedywu.Wilcze Łyko is located bears his name. Another from the streets of Rozwadowa, currently the settlement of Stalowa Wola, bears the name of the brothers of the Szumielewiczów. Let me remind you, Stanisław Szumielewicz was killed in an occupation attack. Let me remind you of those who escaped from this manhunt: Stanisław Korfel nickname Korski, Zygmunt Kajzer nickname Little and the liaisons of the National Army Joanna Kalarus, Krystyna Skowron nickname Grażyn and Zofia Skowron nickname Joanna. All the protagonists of the National Army Diversity Management, Wolf Lyko, on the so-called. The spoiler deserves our respect and memory. Hi, guys. Hi, guys. Hi, guys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u590	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Kostusia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u591	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! 25 years ago, together with the deformity of the Border Protection Army, a uniform formation was launched carrying out tasks related to the protection of the state border and control of border traffic in the Republic of Poland, which is the Border Guard. Currently, more than 14,000 serve in the Border Guard ranks. Officers and about 4,000. civil servants. Representatives of the Border Guard outside their current responsibilities are also involved in other tasks within inter-ministerial and international teams, whose main task is to develop cooperation rules in the field of secure information exchange, prevention, protection, as well as the response to terrorism. Such cooperation is aimed at developing common procedures in the fight against the widespread terrorism in today's world. Serving in the Border Guard means continuing readiness to act, requires courage, efficiency and strength of character. This daily effort deserves admiration and gratitude. On this special day, on this occasion I will allow myself to refer to the Border Guard Day celebrated on 16 May continuously since 1995, I would like to express my appreciation for the effort and dedication of the generations of officers who stand on the security of the borders of the Republic of Poland. They are the ones who, drawing from the beautiful history and tradition of the Border Guard of the Republic of Poland, add to it further boastful cards, demonstrating their commitment and effectiveness in the performance of their tasks. At the same time, I would like to express my appreciation and respect for the veterans of border formations and pensioners who have given their strength and years of work to their country. Have the satisfaction that your service has found worthy continuers: the present generation of Border Guard officers. Thank you very much for your commitment, your great dedication, as well as your worthy attitude and exemplary service to protect our borders. I am convinced that this year's jubilee celebrations will become an excellent opportunity for reflection, memories, as well as making plans for further - so professional - operation of the Border Guard in Poland. By taking advantage of this opportunity, I wish you many successes, satisfaction in fulfilling your daily duties and every success. May the sense of a well-fulfilled duty to your country be the source of your satisfaction and joy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u592	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my family's Małopolska, practically no investment was financed in this year's budget. The entire budget of this year has been tighted to the 500+ programme. Yes, I voted in favour of this programme, because at the moment it was the only way to support Polish families. However, a much better solution than giving 500 PLN was the offer of the Kukiz club15, which talked about exempting these 500 PLN from tax. The government doesn't have any money: to give 500 zlotys, it has to take them first, but on the way there are service costs, so to give 500, you have to take 700. That's why it was better to leave that money in the citizen's pocket right away. Now we see the consequences. On 1 April, he brought new responsibilities that the Marshals of the voivodships have to deal with. The 500+ programme should check whether parents do not benefit from social security schemes in another European Union country. Any application from a family whose member is abroad must be verified in foreign institutions. It is estimated that in 2016 alone there will be around 12 thousand such situations in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. In order to handle this number of applications, another 20 additional posts are needed. Therefore, the local government of Małopolska voivodship asked the Małopolska Voivodeship to provide adequate financial resources for the operation of the new task. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy was also asked to do the same. All of this has no effect. The voivodship's own government was therefore left on the 500+ programme on proverbial ice. He will not receive any additional funds. On the other hand, the Lesser Poland Voivode decided that 825 thousand. PLN needed for this purpose will be transferred from the budget for family benefits. This means nothing more than that the 500+ programme will be implemented, but other family benefits will suffer at the expense of it. In this situation you will have to pay for both tasks and find a huge amount of money in the budget. Taking funds from the local government from one task to accomplish others is nonsense and does not coincide with the government's announcements. In this situation, when we take money from one task and allocate it to another, the implementation of both actions becomes a huge question mark. Each month more than 1.7 thousand reach the marshal. family benefits. In 2016 alone, there will be more than 21 000 cases. On the other hand, the budget for these benefits remained at the level of the 2010 grant, when only 8,2 000 cases of this type were received. So how is the 500+ programme to support this situation? We hold off investments, we take away funding for family benefits - all this just to implement the programme. Who's gonna pay for this? Nobody else, just citizens. Instead of giving away, let's reform the tax system. Today, many young, ambitious people start their businesses right after they become adults. And what do they get for good morning? In Poland, if it is not possible to pay a reduced ZUS, the entrepreneur must pay approx. PLN 1100 each month. Next, he will receive income tax and VAT. I'm not going to talk about any other tributes that we pay by the way, such as excise duty. Let's not play pickup and give. Let us create the right conditions for development in the country and leave money in the pockets of citizens. They know best what to do with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u594	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 2016 is an exceptional year in many respects. In 2016, we celebrate the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, the Year of Mercy, the papal visit, the World Youth Days and the NATO Summit. However, these events cannot obscure us with the memory of the Third Silesian Uprising and the beautiful attitudes of Silesians faithful to Poland. Both their hard work related to the ethos of the mining profession, as well as their zealous faith and faithfulness to traditional values became a source of their bravery, their battles, which resulted in their success in the Third Silesian Uprising. The Third Silesian Uprising was the last armed break of the Polish population in Silesia. Patriots fighting for their mother were forced to resort to the most difficult and only argument for them - the blood argument. They had a difficult confrontation with their opponent, who - what is a fact - brought to Silesian soil nearly 200,000. expats from all over the country. The fight against the desecration and desire to exterminate the national identity of Poles began. There was also a question of the nationality of the area previously belonging to the German State. On the first day of the unequal fight against the difficult opponent Wojciech Korfanta, the Polish national leader of Upper Silesia, said: The Upper Silesian people have been grabbing their weapons for the third time in the last two years to remove the Prussian-German yoke. This time tens of thousands of people She took the gun herself to raise a protest against their threatening German captivity against the world. When I consider the issue of our region more than 90 years ago, I often ask myself: How would we, Poles, now show ourselves in a similar situation? Despite all kinds of divisions in society, often the unwillingness to take on difficult issues and the complex and often ambiguous history of Upper Silesia, Silesia of Opole, would we be able to save the common good - the homeland? Heroic efforts of the Polish population in Silesia led to the fact that today we can proudly say that we are independent, sovereign and true. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to recall these events in a spirit of reflection and genuine unity. Looking back, we draw the strength for actions that serve our common good, Poland. Finally, I would wish us all to be patriots who put our unique national identity above all else. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the next Saturday, 21 May, at 3 p.m. The 12th anniversary of the 95th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising will take place on the Holy Mount Anna in Opole. On Monday, May 23rd, at 3 p.m. 12 in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland there will be a solemn opening of the exhibition "The White Eagle Flying to Silesia." This exhibition is dedicated to the 95th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. I would like to thank all the organisers and participants of the celebrations commemorating the third and decisive uprising against the German terror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u596	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u597	A statement by the Members on the 114th anniversary of Jan Kiepura's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! May 16th this year We celebrated the 114th anniversary of the birth of Jan Kiepura, a Polish singer and actor, enjoying great international popularity and fame, with numerous successes on the boards of world theatres and cinema screens. Jan Viktor Kiepura was born in Sosnowiec. He was the son of Francis, the baker, and musically gifted Maria from Neuman's house. Between 1916 and 1920 he attended the State Secondary School. Stanisław Staszic in Sosnowiec, formerly known as the Men's School of Commerce, where he graduated. As a student, he presented his vocal talent by singing opera arias on the dorms. During World War I, Kiepura was a member of the Polish Military Organization. In 1919, as a volunteer, he joined 1. The Bytom Shooting Regiment where he became an intelligence officer. A year later he and his father and brother took part in the First Silesian Uprising. Shortly after his graduation, after his father's command, Kiepura signed up for the Faculty of Law at the University of Warsaw. In secret, however, he learned solo singing with Professor Wacław Brzeziński. He also took lessons from the famous tenor of Milan's La Scala - Tadeusz Kopystyński. After 3 years of singing, Professor Brzeziński recommended Kiepura to the Great Theatre in Warsaw. After interrogation at the opera, he became his adept, neglecting his law studies, and finally giving them up altogether. For his insubordination and his voice pierced by the choir, he was also removed from the opera by the director. Emil Mlynarski. So he returned to Sosnowiec, where he met Professor Ignacy Warmuth. Thanks to this acquaintance he started singing in Lviv and then in Poznań Opera. He was a great success there, so he decided to return to Warsaw and undertake another attempt to work at the opera. Director Emil Młynarski accepted him again, this time as a soloist. Kiepura had many successes in Halce, Faust or Scary Court. In 1926. Kiepura went to Vienna, Paris and Milan. Four years later, his great film career began. His first movies were Neapol, singing the city and Song of the Night. On one of the film plans Kiepura met a singer and actress of Hungarian origin Marta Eggerth, with whom he married after 2 years of acquaintance. They went to New York together. They had two sons. The concerts of Kiepura were attended by representatives of consulates, embassies and diplomatic corps. For those who couldn't afford tickets, Kiepura sang from the balconies of the hotels in which he lived, or even from the rooftops of the cars. It quickly became a symbol of Polish music culture. Kiepura wanted to visit Poland very much, but he was not granted a visa to visit his father's funeral. Moreover, in the Polish press under communist censorship about Kiepura there were fatal reviews, and the newspapers tried to defame him. In June 1966, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) Kiepura signed a deal with the Metropolitan Opera in New York. At that time he began rehearsing for the opera "Carmen" Bizet. Unfortunately, the sudden death of an artist caused by a heart attack interrupted this undertaking. Kiepura was buried, as he wished, in the cemetery of Powęzkowski in the Alley of the Deserved. The funeral gathered about 200,000. persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u598	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I'd like to dedicate my speech today to the amazons. Of course, not the famous Greek mythology, but the modern one. Amazons that are stronger than many of us. They are women who, despite suffering, scarring and exhausting struggle against disease, proudly and firmly continue to walk on the ground. They can appreciate life as much as anyone can. They're grateful for every ray of sunshine, every breath of wind that we can't even see every day. We're going through whatever we have. What we should appreciate and what we should be grateful for. Amazons take care of what's important and don't waste time on unnecessary arguments or sorrows. Time will pass anyway, so it's worth making the most of it. We often forget that we have one life, there is no counter that sets the date for the end of our term in this world. Amazon-Dana Association in Radom on 29 April this year. They celebrated the 20th anniversary of their existence. 20 years of support, meetings, tears and laughter. No one can understand the woman who won the fight against cancer as well as the other woman who survived the same thing. Unfortunately, the number of women with cancer is not decreasing. Women who learn about their illness are terrified, often treat their diagnosis as a death sentence. Family members are saddened and feel helpless. The Amazon Society was created for these women. There are dozens of such centres throughout Poland, so that each of us, in the face of such a severe disease as cancer, can understand the disease. To realize that this isn't the end, that it's the beginning of a struggle, after which life will go on. Radom's Amazon-Dana Association was founded on the initiative of Dr Danuta Krajewska, who is very committed to supporting the association. On the occasion, I would like to congratulate and thank the initiator, the aforementioned Dr Danuta Krajewska, and the founders and co-workers, ladies: Krystyna Klochowicz, Halina Nosel, Barbara Urbanska, Theodore Okoń, Teresa Wojciechowska. The association has implemented numerous educational and rehabilitation programs over the years. The institution is a rock for post-mastectomy women who have won the fight against cancer. The loss and scarring of women suffering from breast cancer will remind them of this drama for the rest of their lives. Therefore, at such moments it is good to know that they have together the Amazon-Dana association in Radom, where women are working ready to provide support and professional care.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-19-sejm-19-2.u599	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 20 May 2016, by 3 p.m. 9.15. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 48]]
