ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u1	Resume session. Please take your seats. I am calling for the secretaries of today's deliberations to be Members of Sylvester Tulayev, Peter Luke Babiarz, Arkadius Myrch and Wojciech the King. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Sylwester Tułayev and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Wojciech Król and Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9.30 a.m., - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 13, - Economy and Development - h.m. 13, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Senior policy - h.m. 14, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Infrastructure - hour 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 17. In addition, I would like to inform you that the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Śląsko-Zędębiejski Parliamentary Team - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team of Lovers of the Bydgoszcz Land - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: System and Free Market Reforms - hour 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Polish cities - hour 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u3	I inform that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the consent of the Act, the Amendments of 22 October 2014 to the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Disclosure, Seizing and Confiscation of Crime Income and on the Financing of Terrorism, drawn up in Warsaw on 16 May 2005. Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted a report requesting that the Prime Minister adopt this notification without reservation. The committee's report is in print No 174. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying this document. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is printing number 182. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The formal application is submitted by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister's information about foreign policy and I think that not only I, but many Members in this House are not satisfied with this statement. First of all, I thank the Prime Minister for thanking the opposition four times for the opportunity to meet - it is very valuable that such a meeting has taken place - and in this report and this information we lacked concrete details. I mean, we'd probably like to know what the government's position is, what the government's position will be in Brussels because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u5	Mr President, I do not see this formal proposal. [[This is not a formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u6	I'll finish the formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u7	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u8	Therefore, there is a request to the Prime Minister to propose a concrete solution that would improve this situation and as if he had found a way out of a rather confusing situation around the Constitutional Tribunal. Perhaps such a move would be the agreement of the President, but the President would take the oath from three legally elected judges of the Tribunal. I therefore ask: Would it be possible for the Prime Minister, before voting, to present to us the position of the government he intends to present? Perhaps there is something concrete there. So that is what I call for and on the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 7 I ask you very much to accept that the vote be held with discussion and not without discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u9	Mr President, paragraph. 7 refers to something else. The discussion took place yesterday. So that today I cannot accept your statement as a formal request. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the international situation of Poland and its foreign policy concerning relations between Poland and the European Union. An objection was raised in the light of the proposal to accept the information submitted. I will put to the vote the proposal to accept information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting information from the President of the Council of Ministers about the international situation of Poland and its foreign policy regarding Poland's relations with the European Union, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. Two Members abstained in favour of 267 Members against - 177. I state that the Sejm has accepted the information. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the prosecutor's office. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, has addressed this draft law together with an auto amendment to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on National Defence. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 162 and 162-A would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 214 Members voted against - 234, with no abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law, together with the self amendment, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on National Defence. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on National Defence. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 163, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 212 Members voted against - 234, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on National Defence. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft resolution on commemorating the 190th anniversary of the birth of Romuald Traugutt. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 112. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 112 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 449 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm unanimously adopted a resolution on commemorating the 190th anniversary of the birth of Romuald Traugutt. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 182). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. I'm closing... Actually, I don't have to close. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 182 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 444 Members voted against - 1 Member - 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Mr Marshal, with formal application.]] With a formal request from Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I request a formal recess. At this break, I'd like to ask your marshal to convene the Senior Convention. Yesterday, an entry appeared in the social media portal, in the account of Mr. Marshal Kuchciński: before us the challenge of dividing Mazowsze - with separate Warsaw. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] I would like to ask the Marshal to explain, during this break, whether this is an announcement of administrative reform in Poland. In what way is this reform to be carried out? What are the consequences of this change in the division of the region? Is this supposed to be based solely on the division of Mazovia, or are there other changes in local governments? How will this affect the use of European funds? This entry opens a serious discussion about the local government system in Poland, about local government reform from the 1990s, which was, which is the best rated reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u11	Thank you very much. This conclusion is not a formal conclusion. The formal proposal may concern the agenda. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What a break!]] [[Member Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasinska: Do you hear?]] So that I would ask the president to inform... [[The voice from the hall: The break was here, Mr. Marshal.]] For a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention for that purpose. So that I cannot accept this formal proposal. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Why?]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, there was a request for a recess. Let's vote it out.]] [[Voice from the room: On Twitter you will vote.]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 21 hours 9 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would very much like to ask you people who don't ask questions and want to have a conversation, to get into the cockroaches. The first question is asked by Mr Robert Telus, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski and Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice, on the timetable for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 in 2016. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Telus for a question. [[Where's Telus?]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our question arises from questions raised by rural residents regarding the implementation of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. The second year of this financial perspective has passed, we are in 2016. The scandal is that during these two years they have not been... the programme is practically not functioning, but at the same time we ask a question which is very troubling, as I mentioned, Polish farmers: When will the next actions of the Rural Development Programme be launched in 2016? This information, precise and timely, is also needed in order for farmers to be able to prepare measures for co-financing, to plan certain activities on farms. This is absolutely necessary information for the correct planning of investments that would be co-financed by the Rural Development Programme. It seems that the expectation of launching individual actions of the programme should end, farmers should know what possibilities of financial support they will be able to benefit from. This is particularly important because 2015 was not a good year for Polish agriculture. Revenue has fallen, and this is confirmed by Eurostat. The problems of individual agricultural markets, pigs and milk are well known. Also, the losses suffered by farmers in connection with the drought disaster clearly indicate that the village is unable to generate from its income the resources necessary for development, and therefore the expected funds from the Rural Development Programme are expected with such a yearning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hence our question. What is the timetable within which individual actions of the Rural Development Programme will be launched from the perspective of 2014 to 2020? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u13	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u14	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My speech concerns the current question - the implementation schedule of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 in 2016. I'll say the shortest I can, and in such a very synthetic formula. The Rural Development Programme was approved by the European Commission on 14 December 2014. This whole year, which was for the preparation of implementing regulations and laws, is now in such a very intense formula that 28 regulations have already been drawn up and 14 regulations are to be issued. As far as the Rural Development Programme is concerned, the funds at our disposal for the 2014-2020 period are 13.5 billion funds from the European Union, 13.5 billion is the entire budget of the development programme. Within this budget, 8.6 billion are funds from the European Union budget, the European Agricultural Fund, rural development and 4.9 million are national contributions, public funds. Let me remind you that 25% has been transferred from the second pillar from the development programme to the first pillar of direct payment, and I would like to remind you that the budget for the period 2014-2020, in this established, negotiated form, was 13.5 billion, so much money in the period 20072013 from the European Union, from the European Fund. So there is less money, and that is what I would like to say in a summary of what we are doing to reduce this deficit. As far as the design of the Rural Development Programme is concerned, before I discuss individual actions, the types of operations that are being implemented must be said very, very briefly, that we have 15 actions, this is the design of the Rural Development Programme, there are 15 actions, 35 sub-measures and 42 types of operations. We can comment briefly that we want it to be as simple as possible, but we need to learn this new nomenclature. There used to be four axes and actions, but these types of operations, sub-actions and actions are also in this formula in the regional operational programmes, it was about harmonising the nomenclature. This is the first case. The second point is that I would divide the funds available under the Rural Development Programme into several such areas. The first area is the development of farms, the second area is the strengthening of entrepreneurship, the third area is territorial development, the fourth area - knowledge transfer and innovation and the fifth area - production quality support. I'll say it like that. We have already taken responsibility for the implementation of the joint arrangements programme as part of our tasks and continued to work through the last period in order to prepare such an action programme for the whole year and to implement the different types of sub-actions and actions. And now in order. As far as economic development is concerned, this is where we start in March. The bonus for young farmers is the first action to be launched. At the same time, we have the European Commission's agreement that those farmers who have already submitted this, because I will remind you that in August and September there was a first call, now there is a second one, so it is important to know that the European Commission has agreed to our request that farmers, young farmers, who were not subject to it in the previous call, and because they were collecting direct payments, be able to obtain this bonus. So that for a certain group of young farmers it is good news that they will be able to raise these funds even though they have taken direct payments. This is a young farmer and it will be in March. In March we also start implementing a very important component, component D: modernisation of agricultural holdings. Component D is a component, it's like an old modernization, i.e. machines, tools, technological process, tractors. This is the first time we've started this in March. And note: in March will also be repeated the component for piglets, i.e. ABC, so-called. ABC component for modernisation, i.e. for piglets, for the production of dairy cows and for meat cattle. So in March we have a young farmer and as if all types of farm modernisation operations. These are the basic ones, the most important ones planned in the first quarter. While we are prepared and here is the declaration, it is a commitment both to all the implementing rules and to the restructuring agencies, which are ready to implement it. However, as far as the young farmer is concerned, we are waiting for final confirmation from the European Commission so that this whole administrative procedure can be implemented. It seems to me that March is a responsible term in which we can run it. As far as farm development is concerned, in subsequent periods we have payments for farmers [[♪ The bell ♪]] delivering small farms, we have the creation of producer groups and producer organisations in June, we have investments that recreate the potential of agricultural production also in the middle of the year. And these are the basic ones when it comes to farm development. What is important is that as far as farm development is concerned, we have problems with investments that prevent the potential of agricultural production from being damaged. This is about the Water Law Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u15	I'd like you to get to the bottom of this. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: If we do not run this procedure in the Sejm and return to this law, it will be like a problem with the procession and we will translate it into 2017. So much for farm development. I understand that my time is almost up... Yes. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...so I can only answer like this. As regards the remaining areas that are related to implementation: strengthening entrepreneurship, territorial development, i.e. delegated tasks, transfer of knowledge and innovation, support for quality of production, this information will appear on the ministries and agencies' websites and we are prepared to provide information in detail. I think the session of the Sejm Committee is also the place, a moment to give more information. Thank you so much for being able to give us this information. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Please ask me to ask you a question. Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first thing that hit me in some way about what you said was that there would be less money. The previous coalition, Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party kept telling farmers that money in the new perspective for agriculture is more that money on the RDP is more. Now explain whether what the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party said was a lie, where did it come from, that this money simply It's less, like you said. The second thing that interests farmers very much, Minister, is the funds for direct payments. When will farmers get funds for direct payments? Because we know that the previous coalition did not prepare the IT system, and we know that there are delays in these payments. Farmers don't understand where this time slip comes from, and they come to the parliamentary offices asking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with these problems, when these measures are...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u18	...for direct payments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u19	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u20	One more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u21	Time's up, it's very...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u22	It's short. Minister, 15 points is the limit for a young farmer. Is there any way to reduce it by 15 points? This is because, in the case of small farms, fragmented farms are a huge barrier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u23	Thank you very much. However, I would like to ask your Members to stick to the time frame. Please answer the question, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Ryszard Zarudzki. You're welcome, and you're welcome to stick to the time limits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u24	Yes, I confirm, the money is less. Let me add more: within the framework of this 8.5 billion European Union we have commitments from the previous period: structural pensions, producer groups, agri-environment programmes, forestation, organic farming. So that there are these funds from the Union, yes, because we have 13.5 in the pot. The Minister of Agriculture is taking action that will... Such a document, which I draw attention to, is a pact for rural development. Tomorrow we have a meeting with Minister Kwiecinski, this is another meeting where we will discuss how this will take place and what are the real possibilities of redirecting cohesion policy resources to rural development. There appear to be two basic tools: criteria for selecting and launching what is possible today without special change of different programs, i.e. community-led local development. After all, two voivodships, Kujawsko-Pomorskie has EUR 90 million from the RPO, from the ESF and the European Regional Development Fund, and Podlasie has 60 million. Why not return to this possibility of raising funds, redirecting, as far as cohesion policy is concerned, rural development? In particular, as regards the new RDPs, this part of cohesion policy for the development of entrepreneurship has been left behind, because there is not enough money here. So much for the lack of funds we're looking for. The work is ongoing and these effects will be announced in the near future. This document, which is supposed to bind it, is a pact for rural development. As far as the second case is concerned, I was expecting a question about direct payments. Thank you very much. I know it's a strong and hot subject. I will say this, I understand the farmers, because they write to us - I understand the farmers - they ask for faster payments, they ask because of drought and their financial condition. This is absolutely understandable and we are making individual interventions. When I was appointed undersecretary of state on 19 November, on 18 November the information came, i.e. before the start of the system payments from 1 December - I will say the most delicately, because these are delicate things that may not be necessary here. on the forum to discuss so widely - that the IT system will not be functional on time - and period. I don't want to bring it up here anymore. I'll tell you what, since I have this note, I'll give it to you very carefully. That's from the 16th of yesterday, there's a whole payout schedule there. Thanks to this rapid intervention for advances, more money went out in November, before the start of the system - 1/3 billion - and looking at the balance sheet until today, compared to previous years we paid even more money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that doesn't mean the farmers are happy. In this memo, which I am going to give to the Member, is our idea of making these payments in the coming months, and we are obliged by 30 June...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u25	Minister, you're running out of time. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: ...pay them out, they weren't in danger. Then I can promise you by law. But faster... This is where we're looking for solutions. Thank you. Thank you very much, Minister. The second question will be asked by Krzysztof Gadowski, Paweł Bańkowski and Monika Wielichowska - on the payment of the monetary equivalent for the right to free coal for pensioners and miners. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The equivalent or carbon depot has caused many controversy for many years, especially the fact that, so to speak, it sounded or started to arouse even greater emotions when coal companies fell into economic problems. So far, we've had two or three groups. The first group are pensioners who have secured benefits by the state budget, by the Social Security Office. It's regulated, it's two laws. The first relates to the Mining Act and the second concerns the payment of the monetary equivalent to the mining works undertakings. The second group are miners who worked hard to the end in their work. They suddenly, because the economic situation in the companies deteriorated, were deprived of this equivalent - today's money - because we changed the law. It was changed by the board of directors and trade unions. I understand that the previous government did not have time to regulate this issue, because the most important thing was saving coal companies. Today, Minister, the situation is a little frivolous, because everyone is starting to show us this injustice of history. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What is the situation here? How many people have lost in individual companies is law? What's the government going to do? Minister, I will try to quote these words: If deputies are to be picked up, there must be compensation for these deputies. Several years ago, the deputy was taken from the railroads, but the case was settled, their powers were regulated by the state. This controversial situation needs to be sorted out. These are the words of your boss, the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cochorzewski, expressed in the context of the intention to receive or deprive these pensioners by the boards of companies and trade unions equivalent. What's the government doing in this situation? Are you going to settle this situation? Will there be a specific bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u27	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u28	If so, what are the rules? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u29	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I share this with regard to the problem of monetary equivalents or the right to free coal for pensioners and miners. This is indeed a very complex topic and problem. Hence, trying to give a solid and proper answer to the government's intentions, I also allowed myself to show in my statement the multifaceted nature of this problem. Thus, in coal mining coal the coal depots for 2015 were used by former workers of mining companies, active mines and put into liquidation and were implemented by mining companies - here is about 250 thousand. people - the total cost is about PLN 388 million, including the budget grants financed costs of PLN 29.7 million - while the second payer is the Social Insurance Institution - here is about 79 thousand. the persons and their total cost is approximately 129 million fully financed by the State budget. With regard to the question you are asking, what is the situation with regard to the coal debt for pensioners in individual coal companies: in 2014, mining companies decided to liquidate or suspend for 3 years the rights of pensioners to receive a coal debt, this has been in force since 2015, issued in nature or equivalent. There's been a change of heart here. These powers arise from collective agreements or intra-corporate agreements. We have the following situation in individual companies. Węglowa S.A. - liquidation of the coal deputy since 2015 for pensioners and their successors, the company effectively declared deputies last year; Katowice Holding Węglowy S.A. - suspension from 2015 of the right to the coal deputy for a period of 3 years, as we can see, we already have a difference between the Katowice Coal Company and the Katowice holding company; then Jastrzębska S.A., a third important entity in the hard coal market - terminated collective agreements, expiry of the right to rights, here we have a third phenomenon in respect of an important entity; then we have Tauron Extraction SA - pensioners receive a carbon deputy in size 3 t per year, it is implemented both in equivalent form and in nature; then we have the Bogdanka mine - pensioners and pensioners receive a carbon deputat in size 3 t per year, it is implemented both in equivalent form and in nature, as in Tauron. I am talking about Bogdanka at this point, because she has also become an entity that operates in Enea as an entity in the Treasury sector, because earlier, as we know, she was a private coal company, so it should be demonstrated in this whole system at this point. And we have another entity that takes on a certain rank, this is the Company for Restructuring of Mine SA - realizes the right to a coal depot in nature for former employees, or their successive, mines placed in liquidation as of 1 January 2007. Here we say, because we have it classified, that the average size is 2.8 t per employee per year. In the act, as you know, recently adopted that we proposed that it be possible to withdraw, i.e. cash equivalent. How many people have been deprived of these benefits in individual mining companies? That's another question. So since 2005, the following companies, as you know, as I mentioned earlier, have taken appropriate decisions. And so KWK SA is 47 thousand. people, more than 47 thousand. We are talking about less than 39 thousand people who have de facto been deprived of this decision, in KHW, in Katowice Holding Węglowy. people who have been deprived of this decision by Katowice Holding Węglowy, in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa we are talking about more than 38 thousand. persons. So trying to sum it up, we have over 200,000 here. persons who have been the decision of individual entities deprived of this, and who have not yet been effectively, must be said, last year effectively the boards have given up these powers. What was the cost of maintaining these benefits per enterprise per year? In the case of the costs of coal inputs, it should be taken into account that the costs of implementing the coal depot, in terms of nature, i.e. those given in the form of coal, are estimated on the basis of the technical value of the cost of production, at around PLN 300 per tonne, even if we replace it and get along with people who are entitled not to use coal, but want to have it paid. On the other hand, in the case of those who have already paid, i.e. they have been legally granted a cash equivalent, these are payments from the ZUS, we are talking about the amount which is given in the announcement of the Minister of Economy, in this case the Ministry of Energy, is now 600 PLN per tonne. We also have 600 PLN per tonne in the Company for Restructuring of Mine [[♪ The bell ♪]] and this is the result of the tendering procedure. Your marshal, if I could just have a minute to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u31	There you go. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you very much. As far as the sum of the costs borne by the various entities is concerned, Katowice Holding Węglowy, in terms of nature, spent coal with the right to buy back by the company - as I said, there is a replacement within the company - this amount amounts to almost PLN 40 million, while in terms of the Coal Company, we are talking here about PLN 262 million, which are related to the payment of the equivalent in exchange for coal. Jastrzębska company is 64 200 thousand, Tauron it is over 2 million, Bogdanka - over 4 million. Now, trying to answer... We have, as you have noticed, a very diverse situation, not to say: a complicated situation, in terms of deputies, resulting from history, from restructuring events in mining entities. We intend to, this is our intention, and I mentioned this in the committee, together with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, prepare a specialty to cover one regulation of all entitled, because notice that we will be in a situation of increased powers of people moving to the SRK. Therefore, with such a mess, to put it mildly, as regards individual entities - and we should also regulate, among others. collective labour agreements, as well as certain governance schemes for individual coal players, are also a challenge for us to try to bring this together. This is indeed a cost for the state budget and at the same time creating an algorithm, because we have to attribute it. It's about how we convert the equivalent to a possible footnote, I don't know, to a pension or an allowance to a pension. These are the issues we have to deal with. And I confirm this intention: in the coming days, I think that days more than weeks, we want internally, by building a group of people in the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, to build assumptions to deal with this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u32	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. You warned me because I just wanted to ask if the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło is going to regulate, standardize the issue of free coal, the payment of these equivalents to pensioners and miners in full. My question, then, is: At what time should we expect progress from the Ministry of Energy? And I wanted to add this to the Minister's question, which is asked me by retired workers and miners, about what they think is quite shocking. This is the basis for calculating the monetary equivalent for pensioners who receive this monetary equivalent based on the 2007 Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the average annual price, the sale price of coal in the range of Orzech, which for 2014 amounted to PLN 600, while for pensioners of other professional groups, e.g. Railwayrs, this is the average average annual retail price of tons of hard coal given...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u34	...by the president of the CSO, i.e. 800 PLN. And that's the difference...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u36	...over PLN 200 to the detriment of this mining industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Energy, will answer the question. You're welcome. Now maybe we can do it faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Mr President, I admit that you have also touched on another scope, because in addition to the differentiation within the structure of the hard coal sector itself, in terms of deputies, we actually have a group of people who have the right to a coal depot or to purchase coal, and here we are talking about 1800 kg per year for rail workers covered by the Commercialisation, Restructuring and privatisation Act of the PKP. This is the Act of 8 September 2000, or Art. 74 of this law raises this issue. So, in fact, we have an additional group, which is in our Poland, although it is not directly covered by the issue of mining space. And that's also a challenge that we're going to have to face somehow. And the question is, will we really be able to - I say this with full humility and awareness of the problem - to include an additional group, because for today we would like to create... Because what you rightly pointed out is that, on the one hand, we have an announcement that I mentioned, which averages or builds us a financial relationship, so that when we convert this equivalent in nature into a monetary equivalent, we have some point of reference. In fact, this may raise some questions, because we also have diversity at this price. Because if someone actually gets in nature and sells that coal properly... [[For more.]] ...this amount could be definitely different than what we put in the announcement. I'm aware of that. I know this phenomenon. The key we assume is, first of all, harmonisation. We will probably not be able to create a system that will satisfy everyone in quota terms. Let us note that on the one hand we have mines from which workers come, and if we put a market issue on the price of coal today, this coal in various mines has a different market value. If we wanted to be so per the balance to be precise now, then if someone came from such a mine, where its coal sort today is very good, at a high price, then he should get a bigger supplement, and again someone else - another supplement. And yet it may be that these people have changed the workplace over time, so we're going to have to try to mediate something, which may cause some comments, while the key is finally - and we would very much like to do - to sort things out, to make sure that there is no such thing as people living in the same housing estate, and they have different conditions when it comes to deputies, they have different conditions because they worked in other companies. [[Or not at all.]] As for the time, Mr President, when we want to regulate this, I would say that we would very much like to see the adoption of this law in the first half of this year, so that we do not go on for a period of time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] July, August, September. On the other hand, I do not hide that the sooner we do this, the better it will be, because then another problem with this whole reform, which needs to be organised, should finally be closed. So that we give ourselves this period, until the end of June, although there is a tendency to do so earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question three. The third question is asked by Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, on the establishment of the shipyard in Szczecin. This is a question to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u40	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, on the Maritime Affairs Committee, we learned that the government intends to present us with a proposal for a shipbuilding bill in March. I have such questions for the Minister. I wanted to ask if, in this connection, the Minister was going to commission or already commissioned external expertise, analyses, and if so, which companies. I mean whether the Members in the committee, whether we will all get acquainted with some very thorough SWOT analysis or even a diagram of Ishikawa, because it is very difficult matter and it would be worth knowing how the shipbuilding industry in the world is developing, how competitive it is and whether in Poland at all we have a chance to exist in this area in the ordinary commercial market or only in the area of public procurement. I would also like to ask the Minister how much money he plans to spend on this project so that we can see what the scale of the investment is and how it will result in budgets not only in 2016, but also in another one. I would very much like to ask the Minister to answer before the project is submitted in March. I also wanted to ask for consultations with the industry, because the deadline that was set for March, in the context of, for example, the holidays that will take place at that time, is really difficult, because matter is so complicated that I can't imagine that these consultations can only take place during one committee or two. And I would like the bill to be prepared very carefully so that it doesn't turn out in 5, 6, 10 years, that this idea, the shipbuilding reconstruction project is a very great cost and we don't really know what to do with this yard. These are very important questions for Szczecin, Zachodniopomorskie, the whole of Pomerania, but also for the entire economy of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Mr Paweł Brzezicki will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Your question is very complex. Let me answer that for Szczecin, about the shipbuilding economy in the region. To answer your first question. Our resort is preparing to ask audit firms or companies operating in this area, dealing with know-how, on the analysis of the functionality of the post-market assets in Szczecińska Shipyard. I wanted to remind you that Szczecińska Shipyard as such suffered two powerful hits in its history. The first hit was in 2002, when Porta Holding fell, while for the second time in 2008 and 2009, when the so-called. The famous shipbuilding specialist was implemented by the previous government. The difference between these two falls is colossal and they have a completely different character, because in 2002 the assets and entire technological processes of SSN were saved by the Industrial Development Agency and in the framework of SSN Nowa was carried out the production of vessels. In 2008 and 2009, when Szczecińska Shipyard fell, it may not have fallen, but it was liquidated, technological processes and assets, which are in that yard, were ruined, committed to scrapping. As if the most eye-catching example is that in the middle of cutting the technological line of this yard today a supermarket blooms. As far as Szczecin Shipyard is concerned, we need an analysis of the functionality of the assets that remained. And this analysis will be commissioned. What company - we don't know. If we choose to do this and the scope of this analysis, then it will, of course, be in the form of a public tender. Today the flywheel of the shipbuilding industry in Szczecin can only be the Gryfia shipyard, the Gryfia repair yard, which consists of two production centres - one in Szczecin, the other in Świnoujście. And this yard right now is like our eyeball in the head and it's concentrating our attention. In answer to the second part of the Member's question, how much will it cost us to revitalize the shipbuilding industry. I understand that the intention of this question is to probe how many billions of zlotys, the euro, I don't know. Mr President, we are preparing a law on the revitalisation of shipbuilding and complementary industries, but it is not about pumping public funds into this industry. On the other hand, the main instruments of this law are CIT and VAT solutions, especially as regards the chain of suppliers that are budget neutral. And these are solutions that are also adopted, adopted in some countries of the European Union and approved by the European Commission so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, on the lack of funding for free legal advice. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the last term of office on 5 August 2015, the Polish Sejm passed a law on free legal aid and legal education. According to Art. 29 The Act enters into force on 1 January 2016, but all agreements and agreements which are implemented by the county, because this is a task commissioned by the government administration carried out by the county, had to be signed by the end of December to provide these advice by lawyers, legal advisers or non-governmental organisations. Hence my first question: Did these 1524 legal points arise in municipalities? Because we know, personally, that both in my district and in the neighbouring districts, these legal advices, although only a short period of functioning, are of great interest. They are given five days a week for four hours a day. Second question. The system of free legal aid is financed from the state budget in the part at the disposal of the voivodships. Although these units were created, many districts in which these legal advices function, of course in the local resources of both municipalities and powiats, did not receive the decision of the voivodships. Why would you do that? And most - this is due to the information I have obtained - have not received any funding or guarantee at all, or the decision of the voivode to grant funding. When will the county authorities receive adequate means to protect these legal advices for the signed... and to do this task well? And can they hope that this money will be transferred to them by the end of January? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u45	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Hanna Majszczyk, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mrs. Member! The financing of the Law on Free Legal Assistance has been secured and the procedures for mobilising the funds run smoothly. Indeed, on the basis of the information gathered by the Minister of Justice two days ago - from two days ago, but this situation changes every day, so today it may be a lot less points - it appears that there were no open 35 points compared to those which according to the population in the counties should be created and opened. According to the arguments put forward by the entities which did not create these points, 17 information was such - the reason is the lack of financial resources. And that's where I have to refer. Absolutely such argument is deprived of any ratio legis at all, because this results only from the negligence of these units. In accordance with the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the agreement with the relevant organisations, as you have already mentioned, had to be concluded within specific time limits, as the Act referred to, but the measures taken by the Minister of Finance in this area made it possible for the counties to undertake such obligations in order at least to conclude agreements with municipalities or with non-governmental entities about the organisation of such points and the provision of free legal assistance. Before the end of October, the Minister of Finance provided all 16 voivodships with the provision of funding for free legal assistance services. This was the basis for the voivodeship to conclude agreements with each county, of course in the amounts appropriate to the number of points to be created there - and this is an easy algorithm, because it follows, is based on the population in the area - and if such agreements have not been concluded, this results in only because of the lack of proper organisation by these individuals. As I say, these are data from two days ago. In the case of the 17 that I mentioned, these were the reasons, in my opinion, completely lacking grounds. Other individuals gave various reasons, sometimes the absence of non-governmental organisations that would volunteer to organise such points. But as I said, today this situation can be completely different and we already have working information that indeed such points are being opened. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this absolutely cannot be any argument, the basis for the funds being transferred to the account of the individual, i.e. to the county, because if we look at the content of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, we see how the grant for these services is constructed: 97% This appropriation is intended to cover the remuneration of contracts concluded between the lawyer and the district and only 3% - for organizational costs. But this design, and this is due both to the justification and to the substance of the law, does not indicate, especially when we are talking about salaries, so that we can talk about any funds paid in advance. These funds are paid for the performance of the service, if we are talking about the salary for the work, so - all the more so if we are today on 14 January - it is difficult to say that there are obligations involved here. Besides, on the basis of decisions already issued by the Minister of Finance, four voivodships have already received funds according to demand, 10 will probably get them today because they already sent yesterday and two have not yet occurred. According to our information, at least one of these voivodships, which did not occur, all points work and there is no problem with that. [[May I ask, what is it?]] I'm sure I know that Mazowieckie voivodship hasn't been applied yet, and the points are working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Members Wojciech Zubowski and Ewa Malik, the Law and Justice Club, on increasing exports of the Polish economy through support from state agencies and possible government plans to consolidate the activities of these agencies, to the Minister for Development. Ms Ewa Malik will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u48	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Among the agencies and state institutions which are established in order to promote and support exports of Polish producers, excuse me, Polish products, there are several special tasks in this field, I will mention here the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, as well as the Export Credit Insurance Corporation. Recently, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that, following the best examples of the world, he plans to set up a strong export support agency, as well as a development agency, to start development investments. Today we would like to ask the Minister in particular about the nearest plans of the government to increase Polish exports both to the European market and to the world market, and about the measures announced by your Prime Minister concerning the consolidation of government agencies, possibly the establishment of new ones that will pave the way for or develop export opportunities of Polish producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u49	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I am responsible for replacing the person responsible for the Ministry of Development for the creation of these new structures - Minister Radosław Domagalski, who is today with an economic mission in Japan - but I will try to answer the question comprehensively. Indeed, the Ministry of Development is currently preparing a new plan and building a new instrument to promote exports, promote foreign investment. We are primarily reviewing the instruments we have. Several of them have already mentioned, I would add that we actually have 12 agencies and institutions that are engaged today in promoting Polish exports and acting in quasi-market logic, competing with each other, which is not the best solution. We know that they should rather create some kind of synergy in order to support this export and these investments in real terms. So we would like to create an efficient, flexible instrument to support exports and support foreign investment, which will accumulate the experience and potential of these institutions, which are already active in the area of Polish administration at central and regional level. These are instruments that we have within the framework of the Polish Information and Foreign Investment Agency, but also funds dedicated to promotions in PARP, also in the Ministry of Development through trade and investment promotion departments, to a certain extent in the Ministry of Agriculture, mentioned this also by the Member, the Agricultural Market Agency or finally the National Centre for Research and Development, in the Ministry of Environment through GreenEvo programmes. They are all engaged in the promotion of the Polish economy today, but they do so in an uncoordinated way. So we want to build a system that is more efficient and more coherent. To do this, we want to set up a new agency to promote exports and investment or, please, consider it as a working name, an agency to support exports and we want to subpoena its development minister. This new agency will be built to a large extent on the basis of today's PAIiIZ, but also for comparison, and so that you have the scale we assume, today PAIiIZ has a budget of about PLN 10 million, and we want this new agency to have a budget between PLN 200 million and PLN 250 million. These are not the means drawn out of the sleeve, these are the means that, after summing up these instruments that I mentioned earlier, we really have. The legal form of this new instrument remains to be determined: whether it is an executive agency, a public legal person or a public limited liability company. In particular, this first form is supported by the possibility of saving funds for an entity grant in the Budget Act, the granting of a targeted grant for substantive actions by the Ministry of Development or by other ministries, as well as the obtaining of a targeted grant for financing projects involving European funds. We assume that this new institution may be established on 1 January 2017. In order to achieve these objectives, we are aware that we need to build a whole network of cooperation between the national partners of the agencies and foreign partners. We want to encourage and integrate local authorities and investor and exporter service centres into this national network. They should all have a uniform logo and uniform lines of action, should be easily recognizable, we should create such a clear system of one window so that the investor, the exporter knows clearly who he can turn to and can report to. Finally, a network of foreign partners. We are, of course, proposing that this network should be set up again on the basis of the trade promotion and investment departments under the responsibility of the Minister of Development today, especially those who are doing well in this area. We are also reviewing these departments at the moment, and we are looking at which of them actually meet the goals that are in front of such institutions. We will strengthen our presence abroad by opening new facilities. We have already decided to open new offices in Serbia and Vietnam while reviewing them, as I said, and these institutions which are not in strategic places for the Polish economy, these departments will be liquidated. In addition, we want to support institutions on eight important, key markets for the Polish economy, i.e. We are talking about Germany, the United States, Ireland, the UK, China, and perhaps also the countries of Southeast Asia. The Agency will maintain and even strengthen the industry promotion system. This is the direction we're talking about. If we want to follow the best patterns, as the Germans do, as the French do, it is this industry promotion that is this axis of export support and we will focus especially on those 12 sectors that we know about so far, those where Poland has the greatest competitive advantages, i.e. food, IT, furniture, automotive parts, yacht construction, cosmetics as well as so-called. creative industries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will finally continue programmes dedicated to specific markets such as Go China, Go Africa, Go India, perhaps Go Iran, the next direction. Finally, we intend to continue the organisation, as I said, of the economic missions, but we are convinced that they can be more effective, and we intend to work for this greater effectiveness. As I said, the new agency and the new instrument will be launched early next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Wojciech Zubowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u52	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As we have just heard, I understand, at this moment the Ministry is conducting a kind of audit of all those entities that are involved, among others. promoting the economy. If there are 12 entities at this point and you intend to create one, then I assume that they will simply be combined into one larger, or you assume that some of them will simply continue to function. You also talked about the amount of PLN 250 million in the budget. If you have spoken, Minister, about institutions, I understand that this is also about diplomatic institutions, where embassy staff are located responsible for establishing economic contacts. I think it's in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Maybe it's a little forward-looking, too. The agreement between BGK and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has recently been signed. There are commitments that we must make as Poland, i.e. to make about 1% the contribution, which is about $830 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, investment needs for infrastructure in Asia by 2020 amount to $8 trillion. I understand that, too. That's what the Go China program and the others you mentioned would be for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u53	Thank you very much. Minister Jadwiga Emilevich will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u54	The first part of the question concerned the number of export promotion agencies that I mentioned so far. Indeed, we want to merge most of them into one instrument, one agency, with the budget I mentioned. This amount, which I mentioned, is not only targeted subsidies currently dedicated to these agencies, but also funds which, as I said earlier, for example, the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development dedicates to export promotion. So that we want to create a strong, strong, unified agency. At the same time, I can say that with the help of an additional instrument we treat this multi-level, multi-level, because the promotion of exports is a fundamental goal, but also the promotion of good, interesting investments implemented in Poland will be like a supporting, supporting instrument. This is a zone instrument that we want to use. This is the next thing we're gonna do. We will soon present to you an opening report on what to do with zone policy, economic policy implemented in special economic zones. So that these instruments really want to really correlate so that they serve, as I say, the promotion of Polish exports. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u55	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Beata Małecka-Libera and Marek Hok from the Civic Platform club, on plans for a new contract for medical services - withdrawal from the award of quality certificates. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Ms Beat Małecka-Libera will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u56	Thank you very much. Minister, during the inter-Christmas period, a draft of the new order of the President of the National Health Fund was revealed, which included a number of different changes concerning contracting - the rules for the new contract of benefits with the provider. It is completely incomprehensible and actually irrational to indicate that entities that hold ISO certificates will not be awarded for this purpose. So far, we have paid great attention to the quality of medical services and the role of certification has been very important, because it concerns various areas related to certification of both the environment and food safety, so all those areas that are clearly affecting and affecting patient safety. Hospitals also invested to obtain such certificates, their resources, also EU funds, trained staff. So it seems that such a change, firstly, leads to a reduction in the quality of services and, secondly, completely disrupts the construction of a quality improvement system. And by the way, I wanted to ask you about the second aspect, namely the award for the contract with AOTM of those units that will transfer data to AOTM. The problem is that it is AOTM that will choose the units from which he will want to obtain data, and these hospitals, these facilities, will, as a rule, be rewarded in advance by signing such an agreement with AOTM. It seems completely uneven. Therefore, we urge that all units who wish to transmit data [[♪ The bell ♪]] to AOTM, they could use this 10-point additional power supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u57	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Piotr Gryza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u58	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, on 23 December, a draft order from the President of the NFZ on the criteria for assessing tenders was submitted to the public for consultation and suspended on the Fund's website. The deadline for submitting comments expired on 7 January this year. Here we should add, by the way, that the Minister of Health does not formally perform supervisory functions, preventive functions, but follow-up functions, which is actually based on legal regulations with supervision in the position of regulations already issued. However, among others: given the importance of the matter which you have spoken of, and given the number of comments that have been made on this issue, such discussions are currently ongoing, because the decision on the final wording of the President's order and, above all, the annexes to that order is not yet closed. So the work on this subject is still ongoing. However, this is the decision that the most important quality certificate will certainly be the accreditation certificate of the Minister of Health, which is the most difficult and fully related to the certification of the benefits granted, while as for ISO certificates, the decision aims to ensure that the ISO 9001 quality management certificate in the field of services and ISO 27001 certification in the field of information security management. Here, when making decisions, first of all, consideration is given to which of these certificates significantly reflects what is the primary dimension of the activity of the healthcare provider, i.e. the provision of health services. On the other hand, in terms of cooperation with AOTM, this point scale, which was mentioned by the Member, is smaller. This is not 10 points - from what I recall - because it also depends on the range. It's less than half that. Here is the issue, however, that we definitely want the right institution to have access to the right information, so that the benefits can be properly valued, because without this there is no possibility of a fair approach to contracting benefits and that's where it comes from, and that's where the idea is, and this realization is, to score those entities that provide information to AOTM. I hope you will consider my statement sufficient. I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u59	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Marek Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There is also an additional criterion in this Regulation, which is included in your proposal, namely the patient satisfaction study, which is intended to cover not less than 10%. patients who have been given benefits in a given area. This is also a very imprecise record, because in this formula there is, first of all, no shown pattern of this survey on which this satisfaction study is to be based. Besides, this raises serious doubts. Should this patient satisfaction survey be prepared before submitting an offer to the contest procedure, or at the time of signing the contract should the entity undertake that such a survey will carry out the patient's satisfaction? In addition, when are these studies to be carried out, or just after completion, or in the course of a given field in the field of medical services, or after final results have been obtained? Because we know that sometimes this termination procedure ends after a few days, weeks, or months. After all, what will be the verification of the health fund, the assessment of the reliability of these studies actually unsatisfactory patients? And going back to the previous question, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also wanted to point out that accreditation, which is currently obtained by entities, mainly about hospitals, concerns about 200 hospitals in Poland. We've got about 800 of them. Therefore, if this is the only evaluation criterion, additional to the competition evaluation, it will also be unfair for others who have not yet completed this accreditation to prepare, because it also takes many months and all these quality certificates are complementary to a very good approach to assessing the safety of a given hospital, a given entity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u61	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Piotr Gryza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, indeed, the criteria include: patient satisfaction testing. Like I said, we're at a stage right now, or actually the president is at the stage of making this decision. Right here right now, the idea is for the subject to present how he's going to examine the patient's satisfaction. You're right. Perhaps it should be more quantified here, so that this position you're talking about is more clearly judged. And that's what I'm saying. In this process of working on this regulation, we will draw attention to this. However, the examination of patient satisfaction seems to be a very important part of the level of quality of benefits, because this is a kind of immediate feedback between the hospital, the patient and the management board of the medicinal entity at all, to respond in a timely manner, as well as strategically to irregularities that occur, or to the positives that occur in the therapeutic entity. Another question you asked about the accreditation of the Minister of Health. Indeed, it is what you say, but it is a certain direction that needs to be pursued. These are indeed quite high requirements in this criterion... in this accreditation certificate, but this is a challenge and you should reward those who have met this challenge. Besides, you have to remember. the fact that the prospect of this arrangement is relatively short, because from 1 July 2016 the regulation of the Minister of Health will already be in place, so some of the experience that we will have in implementing this regulation will, in fact, serve to a little extent for us to make a more complete decision, to draw up the regulation that I mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch and Ms Małgorzata Golińska from the Law and Justice Club on the outcome of the COP21 conference in Paris and the impact of the signed agreement on Poland and its impact on EU climate policy - to the Minister for the Environment. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few weeks ago, the COP21 agreement was signed in Paris on the negotiations and actions already under way or the outcome of the Kyoto Protocol. As you know, all states, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, assume their responsibilities. This is an important issue, because so far the work in this area has looked to the extent that EU countries have taken on certain obligations which have not resulted in a significant reduction and have been associated with significant constraints on the development of economies. So, on the one hand, the fundamental question that all countries assume their responsibilities is that it is extremely important. Another issue - it can be said that this is a Polish contribution - is the record about the equilibrium of emissions and absorption, which is the situation that the concentration of greenhouse gases can be reduced by rational use of energy resources, by the regeneration of natural systems, but it is difficult to abstract here from the situation we have since 2008, i.e. when Donald Tusk's government signed the so-called. The climate and energy package, which leads to the very ambitious commitments made by countries in the European Union to reduce CO2 emissions by 20%, to introduce energy from renewable energy sources and to increase energy efficiency by 20%. While this last regulation is as reasonable as possible, the first two clearly have an impact on the economy. That's where I'm going with the conclusion of my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, will the agreement signed in Paris give us a chance to change these unfavorable regulations relating to the climate and energy package for Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u65	Thank you very much, Member. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, representative of the government for climate policy Paweł Salek, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Thank you kindly for asking this question, Madam President. I would like to mention at the outset that the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change took place in Paris from 30 November to 12 December 2015. Poland's position on climate change and climate policy is coherent and unambiguous. I would like to mention here at this point that during the September session of the United Nations, President Duda spoke about sustainable development issues. Then during the so-called. Leaders Day had already had a speech directly at the Paris conference, which said that the conclusion of the future agreement would be binding on all participants, so that all parties to the climate convention and issuers would share responsibility for climate protection. Mr Jan Szyszko, Minister of the Environment, developed the thesis and information on this subject during the high-level segment of the Polish delegation at COP21 conference, where sustainable development policies were consistently highlighted, with the spirit of the convention preserved, and the case was mentioned, which was later reflected in the final document of the Paris Agreement. This was a matter related to the role of forests and carbon capture by living natural resources as a means of combating climate change and reducing carbon emissions. It should also be mentioned at the Paris Conference that Poland, through the Prime Minister, declared voluntary participation in the so-called. A green fund and we're gonna participate in this green fund. This is a fund for poorer countries that will be able to use this money. That'll be about $8 million. As regards the Paris Agreement, it was adopted by all the parties that were present at this two-week conference. On the part of Poland it should be mentioned that the provisions related to absorption have been introduced. Our energy structure related to our national good, coal, is safe at this time, because in this document there is no information that coal should be, so to speak, negative fuel or poorly decarbonised, we are only talking about climate neutrality. All the countries that joined the Paris Agreement have committed themselves to being in the spirit of the Convention, in the spirit of the agreement, to submit individual contributions to reduce carbon dioxide emissions as greenhouse gas. It should be mentioned that this has so far been a commitment under the Kyoto Protocol covering only part of the countries in the global agreement that have had responsibilities for this. Poland will not bear any financial obligations in the light of the Paris Agreement, our assistance will be voluntary, and this is what happened when it comes to the declaration on the transfer of funds to the Green Fund. The agreement will be signed in the spring of this year. Certain procedural issues will have to be dealt with in the country. To conclude this thread of the Paris Agreement and the Paris Conference, I would like to say that we have been a very active delegation. We had three presentations, so-called. side events that took place during the Paris conference. They concerned a Polish idea related to forest coal farms. Then there was a presentation related to geothermals, including clean coal technologies. As regards the relationship between the Paris Agreement and all the provisions that include climate issues in the EU policy, we will want to use the success of the Paris Agreement to ensure that the spirit of the Paris Agreement and all the provisions that speak of voluntary action can be translated into the reform of climate policy within the European Union. Currently, we are at the stage of the revision of the Emissions Trading Directive in the European Union and in the framework of the Paris Agreement and these provisions, also related to deforestation, we will translate into all EU documents. We will want to be active in this field so that the impact on the Polish economy of the ambitious climate policy of the European Union can be mitigated so that we can base our energy mix and our energy security on our own natural resources. At the same time, we will have to invest in green energy sources, in renewable energy sources, as well as in purely carbon technologies related to the disposal of carbon dioxide, i.e. conversion, not storage, which will allow us to use coal freely. Of course, it is very important to remember energy efficiency, energy savings, because energy that is not used, or maybe saved, is the cheapest energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u67	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Małgorzata Golińska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, as a forester, I thank you very much for the determination of our delegation to emphasise the role of forests in CO2 absorption. The reduction of carbon dioxide higher than the commitments under the signed Kyoto Protocol is the best evidence of the importance of rational forest management. The increase in forestation or the projects you were talking about, so-called. Forest coal farms will play an important role in balancing CO2 emissions while CO2 reductions will take place through, among others. increasing the share of renewable energy sources in the energy balance. Here my question to which, I admit, you have partially answered: which way, according to the Minister, will increase the share of RES and whether there is a chance on this occasion, and whether there will be some action on the part of the Ministry towards the break-up of the monopoly and certainly some kind of preference for windmill farms in favour of, for example. increasing the role of geothermals or biogas plants? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Bravo, Member!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u69	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Sałek, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, is answering the question again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! In answer to this question: indeed, we, as a Polish side in the EU's policy framework and also in the global climate policy framework, want to raise - we are raising this all the time - the issue of carbon dioxide absorption through forests, because we believe that this is an opportunity for a sustainable European, global and national economy, so that the way carbon dioxide is absorbed by forests can give us a balance between our emissions and what nature can naturally process. In terms of increasing investment in renewable energy sources, it is indeed a situation that we need to invest in these investments, in renewable energy sources. The issue of windmills is very controversial in some areas of the country, and indeed here is a problem with this sector of renewable energy, because it sometimes raises huge social emotions and it is also necessary to respect how... windmill investments will be directly concerned in order to respect local issues related to the lives of people who are neighbouring windmills. This is a very important thing. I hope that this issue will soon be more legislative. As far as geothermal issues are concerned, indeed in this area Poland has great potential to use these geothermal sources. These investments may be more expensive at the beginning, but the long-term balance may pay off not only because of carbon dioxide emissions, which is a greenhouse gas and is responsible for climate change, but also because it is important to remember that obtaining heat energy or even in the future - electricity from geothermal energy causes that we will also have no problem with emissions of dust, which is the emissions of dust, unfortunately, occurs in Poland. Here, in terms of emissions from PM2.5 and PM10, geothermal investments are indeed a huge opportunity for us. Of course, they cannot be created throughout the country, because there are not any appropriate geological layers everywhere for this energy to be used. But today, indeed, this direction associated with geothermal energy in the carbon dioxide elimination and dust elimination system is appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question is asked by Mr Norbert Obrycki and Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, the Civic Platform Club, on the cutting of trees in the Białowieża Forest - to the Minister of the Environment. The first question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u72	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Białowieża Forest belongs to our natural national treasures. It has preserved the last parts of the forest of its original nature, for hundreds of years nature has done without human interference within the forest of self-regulation. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: Why is the biggest logging of trees in the Białowieża Forest in the last 30 years, following the decision of the Minister? Is it true that this is done against the many opinions of environmental experts, and the basis of the decision was above all the so-called. Economic considerations and interests of the State Forests? Is it true that even before the Minister took up office, he claimed that leaving fallen trees harms the forest, and is it true that since you took over the minister's portfolio, the logging of forests was significantly increased in relation to the previous year in the three woods of the Białowieża Forest? I'm asking for an application as much as a percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u73	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Andrzej Nebula. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I would like to thank you very much for your interest in the Białowieża Forest. I would like to say that the Białowieża Forest is in a particular area of interest of the Minister of the Environment and I would also like to say that practically these three questions, the first, second and last, are the third, I answer negatively. It is not true that the largest logging of trees has been conducted in the Białowieża Forest in the last 30 years. Since it is not conducted - and it is not - the second question, about economic considerations, in this situation becomes obsolete. Nor is it true that after the Minister took the briefcase, the cut-off was increased by 40% compared to the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen, forest management throughout state forests is conducted on the basis of a document prepared by specialist companies. This document is the plan of the forest device. At the moment, with regard to the Białowieża Forest - there are three foresights, I know because I worked in the Białowieża Forest, I know things that are happening there, and I thank you for this concern of the Member - I would like to say that we have current plans for the installation of the forest for three forks: Białowieża, Browsk and Hajnówka. Those plans shall remain in force until 2021, and forebearers shall conduct rational forest management on the basis of the records of those plans only and exclusively carry out the activities resulting from the records of those plans. Also to the question of damage to the forest - because that is the case - by leaving the trees fallen down you must answer negatively, because the Minister did not claim that leaving the trees fallen would harm the forest. Thank you very much for your concern about the situation. We are also at the stage of gathering information that comes to us from the area of the Białowieża Forest, from different backgrounds, collecting materials, expertise, various research. In addition, for several years it is the foresters who document the state of the wilderness and what is happening in the wilderness. We are dealing with the degradation of the stands, we are dealing in the wilderness with the breakdown of the stands, and one of the main tasks that are imposed on the forward of each forest is to maintain the sustainability of the forest, i.e. to prevent its decay. At the moment, we are dealing with a situation in which large areas break down the forest and maintain the sustainability of the forest area in these three foresights: Białowieża, Browsk and Hajnówka, where the tree stands are degraded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u75	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Yeah, you're right. You haven't started clipping yet, you're just getting ready for it. From this last sentence it is clear that you have already started this work, but in fact the question I wanted to ask is, in so far as, what amounts, what numbers of these three sounds have been applied to the regional environmental directorate in terms of the consent to the logging of forests in these three foresights - in so far as it has been practice. Indeed, over the past few years, there has been a consensus - you have worked there, so you know that - between foresters, ecological environments, local community, consensus towards the fact that we are significantly limiting the logging of trees in the area of these soundtracks, because the Białowieża Forest is an unusual forest, [[♪ The bell ♪]] a special forest - a forest that has been protected for more than 600 years, and we want to protect this forest, but to protect it passively, not actively, not by cutting, not by increased logging for commercial purposes. Today, you have indeed started the whole process of preparing for the relevant decisions. This process involves firing people - you fired the director of the Białowieża National Park, you fire other people who have different opinions on this matter. This raises a great deal of concern from different backgrounds, from the National Council for Nature Protection starting with, I'm sure you know the opinion of this council...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u77	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u78	...through the environment of environmentalists - tens of thousands of signatures were collected under appeal and a request to stop the process related to the additional acquisition of the tree... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: And we in that term against your decisions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u79	I'm asking you to calm down. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Exactly the same. You shouldn't have done that in your last term. As the committee on this matter, we have appealed, precisely on this matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u80	...so I expect you, I demand you, and I appeal to you to interrupt this process so that you do not destroy the last...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u81	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u82	...a virgin forest in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u83	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Member to remain calm. Mrs... [[Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk:...you have been appealed to by the committee of national minorities on this matter... not to mention 6 million people who have been slaughtered...]] Member of the Commission, the Minister is answering the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much and I am very pleased that you are very concerned about the situation of the Białowieża Forest. The Minister also observes this situation, examines it, gathers information, collects various demands, writings that reach the Ministry. I completely agree with you that this is the greatest heritage we have, the greatest heritage we have, natural heritage, natural wealth, biodiversity, habitats, protected species, priority habitats for the European Union are right there in the Białowieża Forest. I would also like to remind you that every foresight in Poland, foresight is running the economy on the basis of a plan of a forest device. The plan of the forest installation shall be carried out by specific operators, shall be evaluated as well as agreed. In this situation, I would like to stress the fact that the Białowieża Forest is a cultural heritage of the local community and we cannot afford not to respect this object, which has been introduced for generations, bred to the character that we have today. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Cared for.]] We have this documented, there are materials, there are scientific works that human activity in the Białowieża Forest, documented, this is the V century B.C.E. There man has always managed this wealth, thanks to this, thanks to these people from just over there, from Podlasie, we have this forest in the form we have. You asked the Member about the numbers. Mr President, as I said, there are plans for the installation of the forest. The situation is particularly concerned with the foresight of Białowieża, where there has been a dramatic situation related to the printer barker, the gradation of the printer barker and the degradation of the stands. Therefore, according to Polish law, the forerunner has submitted an application and at the moment an application for an annex to the plan of the forest equipment is being submitted. Hajnówka and Białowieża have an up-to-date plan and follow the plan, so here your concerns are premature. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And at the moment, it's not justified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk and Mr Krzysztof Zaremba, the Law and Justice Club, on concrete measures to revitalise the shipbuilding industry, addressed to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u86	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that the shipbuilding industry is one of the pillars of the Polish maritime economy, and Poland has established traditions in the production of vessels, capable of quality and level of innovative solutions used to compete on the global market. With the creation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, the public, Minister, has very high hopes for the reconstruction of the Polish shipbuilding industry. These are jobs and centres for the development of modern industrial technologies so important in today's world. I would therefore like to ask the Minister a question. Has the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation taken any concrete action on the revitalisation of the shipbuilding industry? Of course, we, when we adopt the committee's plan, which will also deal with this subject, will allow ourselves to discuss it not only in committee, in parliament, in the Sejm, but in away committee meetings, but if, because the deadlines indicate that these works are ongoing and will soon be not only the assumptions presented... I would very much ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u87	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Mr Paweł Brzezicki will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for asking that question. The preservation of the Polish shipbuilding industry is crucial for us. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping has already taken action on the revitalisation of the shipbuilding industry. Well, it has already been prepared and submitted to the list of work of the Council of Ministers a draft of the draft Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Production. The aim of the project is to create a legal, organisational and financial framework necessary for the creation of industrial, scientific and financial activities in Poland aimed at the development of existing and the creation of new Polish business entities. There is an agreement on entities with the capacity or capacity to achieve, conclude and implement full contracts for the construction of ships on sea and inland, including warranty and service services, as a final product created on the territory of the Republic of Poland. This also involves development-oriented activities and the creation of an entity in complementary production. This is also the issue of polonisation of the supplier chain. In addition, the proposed solutions should stimulate the development of R &amp; D centres developing new innovative types of ships, particularly in terms of ecological solutions currently being enforced by international rules, namely the use of alternative low carbon fuels, solutions for cleanliness of exhaust gases and ballasts, hybrid or fully electric units. The need to develop this project results from the need to ensure competitive operating rules - on the basis of so-called. level playing field - Polish ship industry and complementary production in conditions of fierce and unequal competition in international markets. In particular, it is about competition from strong support for Eastern Asian ship production, but not only because the neighbours also do it. As a result, economic and legal conditions will be created to activate the shipbuilding industry and complementary production in Poland. Detailed project solutions. The proposal provides for exemptions for VAT in the scope of complementary shipbuilding. These facilities will cover both the final product, ready to operate the ship, and all its components produced in the supply chain. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the finished ship produced by the Polish shipyard is not subject to VAT, so we will try to work in this direction, so that also suppliers, so-called. makers list, the supplier chain was not subject to VAT, which must be financed by poor shipyards for a period of preparation and production of a ship which usually lasts 2 years. With regard to corporation tax, CIT, the project provides for a choice for the yard between the tax, so far, CIT and the flat-rate tax on the value of the sold production of 1%. I wanted to point out that the so-called. Special production will not be able to enjoy this kind of facilitation. The choice of this form of taxation will be made by the trader making a declaration. If a declaration is made, it will be possible to change the form of taxation no earlier than 3 years later. A similar mechanism is provided for in the current Act of 24 August 2006 on tonnage tax. In addition, the project provides for a mechanism to cover the special economic zone of land in which shipbuilding and complementary production are carried out. The above-mentioned facilitations are of a particular nature and will cover only the construction of ready-to-use ships, but will not include ship repairs. Why? Because the cost-effectiveness of ship repairs... The margins range between 12 and 25% And we don't think repair yards need that much help. Of course, this does not preclude the use of the above mentioned. facilitating the construction of new ships by companies specialising in their repairs as a rule, as is currently the case. It is worth noting that the Enterprise Development Programme, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2014 contains a comprehensive system of support for enterprises with a particular focus on innovation. An integral part of this programme is the document entitled: National Intelligent Specialization (KIS) identifying areas of R &amp; D and innovation. In this context, it should be noted that the Steering Committee on the National Intelligent Specializations decided to create a new national specialization Mon. Innovating marine technologies in the field of specialized... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u89	Finish it. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Paweł Brzezicki: Thank you. ... under the name "Innovative marine technologies" in the field of specialized vessels, marine and coastal structures and logistics based on maritime and inland transport and inclusion as 20. on the list of national smart specialisations. At the moment, under the aegis of the Ministry of Development, which is responsible for the entire KIS, work will be carried out to determine the exact description of the maritime intelligent specialisation in question. It is worth mentioning that it consists of three thematic areas: design, construction and conversion of vessels, design, construction and reconstruction of marine and coastal structures and processes and equipment used for logistics based on maritime and inland transport. Companies working in the shipbuilding sector will be able to submit applications for funding under the Operational Programme (PO IR) The Commission therefore In order to be accepted, the application will be evaluated in terms of enlisting in this or other KISs. At the same time, it should be stressed that the requirement to ensure the compatibility of the funded project with the KIS applies only to research and development projects or to the construction of research and development centres. In the case of projects aimed at supporting implementations as a result of research, the development of the KIS investment compliance criterion is an optional rather than mandatory criterion. Therefore, shipbuilding companies with the status of small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to obtain resources from PO IR for the implementation of research and development results. Moreover, there is also a technological loan of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As part of the sub-action 3.2.2: The loan for technological innovation will be targeted at projects for the implementation of technological innovations resulting from research and development. Madam President, I think that in response I have highlighted all the elements of our action. Of course, I provide further information and invite you to cooperate. Thank you kindly. Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Zaremba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The shipbuilding industry existed in the Oder basin, in the Vistula basin for 600 years. The Platform Government and PSL have shut down the industry within a month. My question will be about what happened. You were talking about subsidising, among others. by our western neighbor to his industry. Let me remind you: EUR 326 million guarantee from the German Government in 2010 for the shipyard in Stralsund, Schwerin, Wolgast. The head of these shipyards himself said that the decision of the Polish government to liquidate Polish shipyards, including the decision to help, allowed him to restructure his shipyards. Finally, we have in the case of the 2008 decision not to appeal to the Polish Government against the decision of the European Commission. In the position of the European Commission, it was not true that SSN in the years [[♪ The bell ♪]] - Just a little while longer-- 1991-2001...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u91	Yes, yes, but get to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u92	...she used public aid, which wasn't true. Therefore, given also the plundering of the yard's assets, which took place after 2009, I have a question whether the government, when agreeing on the provisions of the new shipbuilding law, intends to raise these arguments in discussions with the European Commission, because undoubtedly such arrangements will have to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u93	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer the question. You're welcome. Minister Paweł Brzezicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Of course, all the arguments that caused the uncompetitiveness of Polish shipyards vis-à-vis Western European shipyards will be raised, including those which prevented the continuation of shipbuilding production by using some active financial elements. On the other hand, I would like to emphasise: the shipbuilding industry is in a bad state in the world after the last 10 years of the crisis in the industry. Germany and France have also suffered major losses in this industry, not to mention the Far East. In my opinion, the balance sheet loss of last year for all world shipyards is several tens of billions of dollars. Therefore, we do not believe that there is any resistance in the European Commission as regards aid to shipbuilding, because some of the Polish shipyards are complementary to German production. I would also like to mention that the famous shipbuilding programme based on Kommanditgesellschaft companies in Germany in the main part was carried out by Polish shipyards, including probably the largest by Porta Holding. I think that after a time when in some way the financial situation of Polish shipyards, which... They are what they are, I didn't mean to say there isn't, right? This represents a great opportunity for the reconstruction of the Polish shipbuilding industry, as well as the end of the bessy period on the world markets. We have a chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus and Mr Grzegorz Schreiber, the Law and Justice Club, on the failure to pay remuneration to subcontractors for the construction of the motorway A4 Tarnów - Rzeszów on the section from the node of the Cross to the node of Dębica Desert. The question is to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, I am addressing you on a very important matter, on the very difficult situation of Polish subcontractors carrying out an investment in the construction of the motorway. A4 Tarnów - Rzeszów on the section from the Cross node to the Dębica Desert node, sub-contractors whose claims have not been met to date, which results in particular from the declaration of liquidation of Hydrobudowa Polska SA and the bankruptcy of the Irish company and PBG SA. The consortium, which was the contractor, declared its bankruptcy in June 2012. From that moment began the huge problems of Polish entrepreneurs, who performed their services in the implementation of the above mentioned. investments. Previously, however, the investor, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, received the investment and put it into service. At the turn of 2013 and 2014, Dublin entered into an insolvency agreement concerning the Irish company under which the failed agreement was to repay its liabilities at 5%. This arrangement consisted in minimizing the claims of Polish subcontractors, and I wanted to note that e.g. one company such as Victoria - Poland suffered a loss or otherwise: it received no payment at the level of approx. PLN 3 million. Consequently, in the agreed letter of creditors, the voice of Polish entrepreneurs was limited, which prevented them from having any real impact on the content of the agreement. Minister! After the amendment of the rules, the investor and the contractor shall have joint and several responsibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for payment of remuneration for works carried out by a subcontractor. What are the odds, and what will be the approach to this matter after the change of government? This really applies not only to one company from my district, but it is very important for these entrepreneurs and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u97	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for this question, because it also allows us in the forum of the Sejm, a forum observed by the whole society to return to the issue of unfulfilled claims, as a rule legitimate claims of Polish contractors, Polish subcontractors who worked for the construction of highways and highways in previous years. High Izbo! Yesterday I received a summary from the General Directorate of National Roads, which shows that in litigation there are over PLN 6 billion, which concerns... These disputes relate primarily to the years 2012 and 2015. They were created between contractors and the general directorate or subcontractors and the general directorate of national roads. So the scale of the problem is really huge. And this example that you have given is such a clinical, unfortunately clinical, very bad example of what has been happening so far. As regards this particular investment, the construction of the A4 motorway on the Tarnów-Rzeszów route was indeed undertaken by a consortium consisting of companies: SIAC Construction Irish, PBG SA, Apriva, Hydrobudowa Polska SA. With the exception of one company, three consortia went bankrupt and no longer exist on the Polish market. But then they made a contract for the amount of PLN 1750 million, for which this section of the highway was to be built. Unfortunately, it soon became clear that the main shareholder of this consortium was unable to fulfil its obligations with regard to subcontractors. He did not pay them on time and repeatedly concluded contracts in which unit prices for individual tasks were many times higher than those which he had shown in his estimate, which he submitted to the Directorate-General as the basis for concluding the contract. So right here, at this point it was obvious that it was unfair, and here it was difficult to hope that all the liabilities would be covered by this company. And I'm afraid that's what happened. Finally, the agreement with this consortium was terminated and the facilities themselves had to be completed, the motorway itself had to complete another consortium which had done so in 2014. But unfortunately, these huge commitments remain, which have been met in very different ways. Let me remind you that on 28 June 2012, the Sejm adopted a law on the repayment of certain unmet debts. This made it possible more than possible for the Civil Code to be paid by the direct contracting authority, i.e. the general director, the subcontractors who carried out their work. As part of this solution, under this legal basis has been considered, it has been reported, High Izbo, here I stress specifically a specific number, 244 applications for a total amount of PLN 220 million. 177 applications on the basis of which 81 million zlotys were paid were positively examined. On the other hand, with regard to the claims on which the Civil Code was based, 188 applications were submitted for a total amount of 241 million. They were accepted in full or in part: 144 applications for a total amount of 115 million. With regard to the particular company that you have been asking about, Victoria, some of her claims have been met when it comes to the possibility of reaching for the provisions of the specialty I mentioned. It was paid to this company 90% claims, almost 90%, for the amount of 8254 thousand. zł. However, unfortunately, the remaining amount of more than PLN 3 million which could not be paid on the basis of the specialty, because it contained specific situations, specific conditions which the subcontractor must fulfil in order to obtain his money on this legal basis. And unfortunately, it was necessary to come from the general basis, i.e. from the Civil Code. And here came the problem that was reported by the general management that it was not proper to document these claims. And then, unfortunately, this case, the situation in which the company tried to pursue its claims before the Irish court, was indeed very difficult. I would like to assure you that we will continue to look at this issue, what else can we do to ensure that the claims for these documented works by Polish entrepreneurs - not only in this case but also in other matters - can be met. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I stress, the scale is huge, there are proceedings in courts for the total amount of claims of more than PLN 6 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. Yet, Madam, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u100	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will say this: construction of motorways, EU funds were a great hope for Polish entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, it turned out that this construction, these investments could be the cause and cause the collapse of many companies. It's the company I was talking about, I'm guessing it's $1,600,000. She had to take out loans to pay off her subcontractors again. This greatly affected the position not only of the company, but also of the family. And this isn't the only company that's been affected by this particular situation. This is an example company with which I may have the best contact, but these subcontractors are at least a few. Minister! Additional question: Has that Irish foreign contractor already received payment of all the money from the general management? What else is the chance for this company whose stability has been disturbed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because I know from sources that as far as the next investments she made are concerned, there are again problems with payments. We must protect Polish entrepreneurs. We care very much about the construction of roads, but also about the fact that in Poland there are entrepreneurs who give jobs again and who contribute to the development of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u101	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Minister Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The company we are talking about, the Irish company SIAC, unfortunately is one of those companies which left a very, very bad track on the Polish market and very bad consequences of their functioning. The question you asked was whether she received her salary from the general management... The situation is as follows: this is one of the disputes that are going on, because this contractor did not fulfil a number of conditions that should be met, even if those I had mentioned earlier - he had not completed the construction and a second tender had to be carried out, there had to be a second invitation to tender in which the contractors who had finally completed the investment had been selected. Question: "What more can we do?" I'll say we want to do another review of all these claims. We want to sit down with the general management and think about which claims, problems we can still solve, for example, from the position of settlements. There are a few examples that, I will say so: in which any solution, if it is not a settlement, will be wrong, because either it will lead to bankruptcy of the company - if the claims of the general management are recognised, the companies will simply not be able to withstand these burdens - or they will be real direct losses to the state budget. So we're going to have to try, I think, in a few cases we're just going to make a deal that's going to let companies operate, and they're going to reduce the public loss, the public loss, because that's what we're supposed to say when we do these jobs. We also want - we are already doing a number of work - to prevent such situations from happening in this already started perspective. We are working on a change in the Public Procurement Law, we are working on changes that will change technologies that will also reduce the cost of building and credibility of these companies, and they will... We will put in place mechanisms that will make the companies that will stand up or which will emerge from these huge, gigantic tenders. I would like to remind you that this year, for example, the planned expenditure on the construction of highways and highways is more than PLN 17 billion, so we are really talking about giant projects, which are really crucial for the further development of Poland and for the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The last question will be asked by Mr Maciej Małecki and Mr Marek Suski, the Law and Justice Club. The question is about the financial situation in which PLL LOT is currently located and the planned measures to improve it - to the Minister of the Treasury. The first question will be asked by Maciej Małecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For several years, LOT's Polish Airlines have been fighting for survival. The company received public aid, the former president of the company announced a good financial result at the end of 2015. Let me remind you: President Mikosz spoke about the result of 113.137 million in basic activities, i.e. passenger transport. President Mikosz also announced a number of activities such as the purchase of dozens of new aircraft, such as the opening of dozens of new connections. You can say in this situation: power plans. Unfortunately, for unclear reasons, Mr. President, last autumn, suddenly packed up and left the company. Hence my questions: Has the financial result announced by the former president of LOT been achieved last year? If we don't have a score for the whole year, I'd ask for a score for three quarters. I would also point out that this result is influenced by the record low fuel prices, i.e. a gift from the market that had not been made by the previous LOT boards. The former board also announced that the company's new strategy would be ready in the autumn. Has this strategy been prepared? Will you carry it out, or will you carry out an audit on the plans of this strategy? In 2016, the Council LOT was supposed to open 20 new calls, including as far, as risky as Tokyo. Or Beijing. My question is whether such a number of new mergers in such a financial situation is not the company's suicide, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the connection, even if it's hit, will only be profitable for a while. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u105	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Mr Filip Grzegorczyk will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to Mr Maciej Małecki and Mr Marek Suski's question about... Of course, there were specific questions, whereas the question in writing was formulated with regard to the financial situation of LOT. In fact, your question should be answered in a context. First of all, the issue of state aid and the restructuring plan must come out. It must be remembered that not so long ago PLL LOT received public aid in the amount of PLN 600 million. It was said officially that this was a great success, because this aid was supposed to amount to 800 million PLN. Well, unfortunately, this success, let's say, is quite limited. Turning to specific issues such as today's updated company budget for 2015. It assumed a positive result on the core business of 3 million against 126 million adopted in the original version of the company's economic and financial plan. Although by October 2015, the company recorded an increasing result on its core business above the budget update assumptions, the current forecast provides for the closure of 2015 with negative results on its core business. According to the preliminary estimates of the company, this result will be about minus 25 million PLN. Of course, it is important to stress that this is an estimated result in the sense that before the statutory auditor examines it. Assumed in the revised 2015 budget, the net result is minus PLN 225 million in relation to the initially budgeted minus 91 million, while preliminary estimates show that the company will reach minus PLN 250 million at the time of closure of the year. Today it must be said that, at the end of the previous year, the implementation of the restructuring plan in the company has formally ended, which allows it to open new links to which it refers in its question, and this is part of the strategy of the company, which was adopted in the recent past. But we also need to look at some of the challenges facing the company. The first of these challenges This is a question of restructuring. As of today, only cost restructuring has been carried out in the company, organizational restructuring has not been carried out, certain processes have not been improved. It can therefore be said, carefully, that the effects of restructuring activities may raise some doubts with regard to the stable development of the company. The second important issue that weighs on LOT's situation is that of the fleet that LOT has at its disposal. LOT has the fleet it has, and it is generally not entirely aligned with the company's plans or the company's strategy. This is a serious problem of LOT. Of course, the real threat to LOT is the collective dispute generated by the LOT Board in 2010. It must be said that, in connection with these activities of the then board, LOT employees were given a change notice. As of today, at first instance, four judicial cases were brought to an end by a judgment granting the right of workers. Of course, cases are currently pending before a second instance court, but there is a domino effect that may occur here. And this can consequently lead to expenditure, to an increase in salary expenditure of about PLN 50 million per year, which in such a situation LOT, as it is, let's be fair, is dangerous. As regards the 2016 budget, the audit committee of the Supervisory Board is currently carrying out analyses. The State Treasury Minister has changed the composition of the Supervisory Board and this Board, following the changes, the audit committee of that Supervisory Board shall conduct an analysis of the budget. As regards the actions that the Minister of the Treasury can take regarding the company, there is no doubt that some personal changes have been made. Today, selection procedures are being conducted for the positions of the President of the Management Board and two members of the Management Board. We're counting on these changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So to speak, they will strengthen the situation or improve the situation of the company. Bottom line is, I understand that the answer time is running out...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u107	It's even over. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury Filip Grzegorczyk: Now, Marshal. Let me put it this way: in general, we need - we see this need - to conduct an audit in the company. This audit will be commissioned very quickly. The audit will give us an answer whether we update the company's strategy or not. I don't want to get ahead of myself. However, the audit must be carried out. What I want to say with all my power is that we will undoubtedly make every effort to keep LOT as a flagship national carrier and also keep the Treasury in control of the company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The Member is also asking an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u108	Minister, just a little bit more. What time horizon can we expect when it comes to the new board, and at what time do we have a chance to learn about the results of the audit?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u109	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The contest procedure is ongoing. I think that by the end of January, at the beginning of February, the Supervisory Board will certainly set up a new board. Of course, this is the responsibility of the supervisory board. Therefore, I am talking about the schedule. On the other hand, when it comes to audit results, we must first carry out it. But I think that this is, that is, the Minister of the Treasury will make sure that this audit is carried out as soon as possible, because other important issues, such as the revision of the strategy, will matter from the results of this audit. So that I can't give you a specific date, a specific period, but it will be as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u111	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the progress of the revision of the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 21 October 2014 will be considered at this meeting of the Sejm. Act K 38/ 13, about which the performance was brought by the Modern Posel Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wish I could see the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Constitutional Tribunal of 21 October 2014 in the Case of Signatorys. Act K 38/13 ruled that Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b of the Family Benefits Act is incompatible with Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution. It is therefore unconstitutional. The case concerns the differentiation of the right to provide care for persons taking care of a disabled person after the age laid down in that provision has been completed due to the moment of disability. I quote the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal: Application of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b The Family Benefits Act as a criterion for identifying beneficiaries of care provision leads to such differentiation within the right to care benefits, which loses its constitutional justification. This is the case when a person requiring care changes his status to include him or her as a child within the meaning of the legislator. Under the Family Benefits Act, the criterion distinguishing such a category is the age of 18, possibly the age of 25 during school or higher education. Crossing such a age limit makes it possible to speak only of one group of similar entities from that point on. It is then created by carers of adults with disabilities. There is no constitutional justification for the diversity of entities belonging to this category, e.g. as regards the amount of care benefits they receive. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out the negative effects of the contested provision. He stated that the guardians of adult disabled persons must be treated as members of the same class by the legislator and therefore cannot in principle be treated differently and ordered the judgment to be settled without undue delay. On 21 October 2015, a year has passed since the delivery of the judgment and no solutions have been put in place to address the situation of guardians. I may add, with a moment's notice, that the carers of adults with disabilities demand the restoration of the rights acquired for the care provided as a substitute - a benefit for carers who were deprived of the amendment of the Family Benefits Act of 7 December 2012 dividing them into carers for children with disabilities and carers for adults with disabilities. Adult people with disabilities are currently in Poland about 150 thousand. The reduction in child benefit after the age of 18 and the treatment of a disabled child as an adult is not justified because most of these persons, most of these children, whether they are 15 or 15 years old 30, or even 50, according to parents, are still children who require constant care, constant support. Therefore, these maintenance costs do not change at all. Parents who are 18 years of age have no more time and facilities, e.g. to get back to work. On the contrary, the cost of living for an adult disabled person is very often much higher than the cost of living for a disabled child, as with age there are additional diseases that also require both additional medications and additional involvement and rehabilitation. Responding to the appeal of the disfellowshipped guardians of adults with disabilities - because not only are modern Members, but I suspect that all Members are being e-mailed at the moment by the parents and guardians of adults with disabilities asking what happened to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, because this judgment, as I mentioned, has not yet been implemented, the provisions of this judgment - the Poselski Club The modern one asks whether the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy intends to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 21 October 2014 in the case of signage. K 38/13 and whether legislative work is being carried out on the implementation of this judgment. I'll just add that there were a lot of charges to the previous ruling crew that she didn't execute about a dozen or so, in fact, 48, if I recall correctly, judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today is an excellent opportunity to change this situation, improve it and make these judgments begin to be executed. All the more so because I know very well that it was PiS Members who were in contact with the guardians of disabled children, and it was PiS Members who appealed, among others. to the Constitutional Court and to the previous team in charge of improving this situation. Thank you so much, and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u113	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk to answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! First of all, there is one thing in order for this discussion: What did the Court point out to us as issues that we should consider? First of all, the first point is that the income criterion as a basic criterion for access to benefits from the state budget is justified, i.e. that the Court has ruled that we can apply this kind of solution. He stressed that the application of the income criterion to beneficiaries of care benefits is in line with the Constitution, since it allows for the transfer of State aid to persons in difficulty. At the same time, the Court points out that: In any event, an assessment of the actual financial situation of their potential beneficiaries should be an important criterion for granting benefits. So here's the question of how to sort it out, what the tribunal pointed out to us. The second point: the indication of the tribunal is obvious that it is about equal treatment of carers of adult disabled persons, it should be treated equally, i.e. it pointed out that the different formation of the right to provide care is incompatible with the constitution, and this is actually crucial for this ruling of 21 October 2014. The third point is the preferential treatment of guardians of disabled children, i.e. the tribunal said in the explanatory memorandum that the legislator may differently shape the conditions for granting care services to persons who take care of a disabled child. He also stated clearly that the application of such a condition is acceptable. And the fourth issue that the Court has pointed out to us is the protection of acquired rights, that is, the tribunal in the explanatory memorandum also pointed out that the implementation of the judgment requires appropriate legislative action. It's obvious. At the same time, he stressed that we have a margin of discretion in this regard, but it should be taken into account, I quote: both the possibility of financing benefits from the state budget and respect correctly acquired rights of people who currently benefit from benefits in confidence to the State. So it's a matter of acquired rights. And now what happened after that ruling? This is the second part of my speech. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, a bill was created, which provided, in short, for the four most important things. It is about introducing an income criterion as a basic condition for granting the right to a new care provision. Then the income threshold of PLN 1000 per month was proposed net per person in the family, which is in line with how family benefits are granted in general as regards the methodology itself. This was to be higher than the current income criterion with a special welfare allowance, that is what the Member has been talking about since 1 November. R., 764 zł. The second point is the amount of this benefit. The proposal was that the care provider of an adult disabled person should receive a care allowance of PLN 800 per month regardless of the age of disability. This amount would be more than 50% higher than the current special welfare allowance of PLN 520. The third issue concerns the preferential treatment of children with disabilities, and in this project it was proposed that such persons should receive a higher care provision, i.e. those who take care of children, at a higher level - 1200 PLN to 18 PLN or 25 years of age of the child. As far as the fourth issue is concerned, because, as I said, there was a question of protection of acquired rights, it was proposed that those who currently benefit from care benefits could continue to benefit from them on the basis of the existing rules. This project was prepared, with a huge number of reservations being raised during the consultation, over 150 pages. The most critical remarks were, of course, the introduction of an income criterion, also the differentiation of the amount of benefit depending on the age of the child. This draft prepared by the Ministry was addressed to the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers, but from this Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers did not cross the path, nor did he go to the Council of Ministers and actually does not have this proposal. Now what can we declare in this perspective, and what can we say about it? I mean, it's definitely that we're aware of the importance of this problem. As you say, we also have a huge number of correspondence, a huge number of letters from the carers of people with disabilities. This is a matter of social importance, but also a matter of the importance of order, including a legislative one, that there is a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which has been pending for a year. But it's important to remember that he's not realized by the previous crew yet. Of course, we're leaning on this problem, and I'll tell you what we're doing about it. We are, of course, aware of the need to work on this matter without delay. We also have a backside that we should not treat this kind of benefit as just a social benefit, because it is often the case that such care for people who care for people with disabilities, such care for family members is simply more friendly and even less expensive and more effective. As I said, there are a lot of these voices coming to us, and we have therefore taken the right steps here. On 8 January this year we set up an internal task force. system solutions, that's what he's called, the team. System Solutions for Disabled Caregiver. Its task will be to review and analyse what is currently on the table, what we have so far, and to work out of course the right solution. The first meeting of this team is January 21st, which means in a moment. Of course, we will examine what has come because of the proposal we had on the issue of this previous bill. And also, on behalf of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Elizabeth Rafalska, I declare my willingness to meet these environments. I mean, we'd also like to meet them, and here it's probably going to be sort of surgically solved, so that we can just accept, listen and start working on solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that 12 people have entered the discussion. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the discussion? This is your last chance to sign up. I'm opening a discussion. She is the first to ask the question of Mrs Beata Mazurek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am glad that you have said a little bit about plans to raise the benefit, to see their problem, to try to solve this problem, because we are indeed all covered with emails asking that benefits, the amount of these benefits, equalize to the level of benefits of parents of children with disabilities. But I'd like to ask you what you signaled. Firstly, I would like to know the schedule of work, if this is the case, when you meet with the environments of people with disabilities, what will be the selection criteria, whether any proportionality will be maintained. I say this in the context of what happened earlier, that in fact the environment of people with disabilities stated that the sub-tables that previously functioned did not really reflect their expectations, were not listened to their demands. You've dealt with this issue. You know these things very well. So I'd like you to calm down a little bit of those who are watching us, and to say a little bit more about this consultation, this collection of ideas. And above all, what will it look like at a time when you might want to solve the problem of differences in benefits and do you already know the estimates, how much money, how much money would be needed to eliminate these differences? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u117	Thank you very much, Member. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. Ms Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the spring of 2014 there were protests by parents demanding higher benefits for their disabled children, or actually for themselves, for the care of these children. The amount of benefits, despite the systematic raising of benefits, was insufficient in their opinion. At this point, I would very much like to ask the Minister to give us information, such as these benefits, not only for carers of children, but also for carers of adults with disabilities, have increased over the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. The previous government started working on a systemic solution to this problem and the problems were solved together with the environments of both carers of children and carers of adults with disabilities and non-governmental organisations. The round table set up for this purpose and the tables worked properly until the last days of the previous term of office. I am convinced that the Minister is aware of the problems arising from the differences that were presented by the interested parties themselves. These were not uniform opinions and uniform systems, proposals for solutions to these issues. Some organisations considered that only the benefit, other organisations thought that the benefit could only complement specific activities for this environment, some considered that the benefit was a substitute and was intended to fully cover the cost of living of the person and the cost of caring for that person, others considered that these benefits should only be a complement to a larger range of proposed solutions for that environment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So a request to the Minister: the amount of benefits that I have been talking about over the years and the differences in the views of people representing the environment, the differences that have been very clear and therefore the difficulty of solving this problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u119	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As has already been said, we receive daily inquiries about the further legal situation of carers of adults with disabilities. I would therefore like to ask two questions on behalf of modern Members and ask for an answer. The fact that the Platform failed to execute the ruling of the tribunal was already done. I have a question about whether you and the other tribunal's verdicts will ever be executed. And the second question is, were the funds reserved for the execution of this judgment in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u121	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Golinska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Recently, in a conversation with my mother, who gave up her job to care for a disabled child, I will add, disabled from birth and today, to the age of 18, I learned that the pension that was calculated for this mother is PLN 520. Therefore, I have this question: Is there a real chance that the team that the Minister was talking about will also lean on the problems of people in the situation in which my mother is mentioned by me, and that these people will be able to count on more than this calculated pension today? And the second question: Is it planned to increase the care allowance, which is directed directly to the disabled person, because for several years this amount, and it amounts to PLN 153 per month, is frozen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u123	Thank you. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We know that the problem of people with disabilities is very special because there are no major problems in life than illness and disability. Nevertheless, it is not so simple that it is enough to give money and the problem, so to speak, is solved. We know that people with disabilities really require very diverse assistance: from financial assistance to institutional assistance. Sometimes they are so independent that it is good for them to have professional rehabilitation. For example, in 2007 funding for salaries, as I recall, amounted to PLN 1.6 billion, and in 2013 it was already twice as much as PLN 3.2 billion. It is known that in the first place we increased the care provision for those whose income was lower. It is known that children have no income, so we first increased the amount of care from 620 PLN to the current 1300 PLN. Adults with disabilities have the right to a social pension or a disability pension, but we were aware that the amount, this benefit also needs to be evened out. Hence our proposal for a bill, which we began to consult. It's not true what you said at the Modern Club that we didn't execute our convictions. On the contrary, we accelerated the execution of judgments, because after the rule of law and justice we inherited approx. 200 unfulfilled convictions. We've accelerated it so much that we've reduced this backlog to 20. We didn't really make two because we didn't make it. We respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which is why we have submitted an appropriate project in this area that we are debating today. I have a question for you. Since we will no longer be able to implement a new bill to compensate for this benefit, whether the state, increasing expenditure [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the state budget and income, do you not see such a possibility that those who have the right to a special welfare allowance raise the amount of this benefit? I remind you that only the decision of the Council of Ministers is sufficient, the amount of this benefit is discretionary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u125	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In analysing the demands of persons with disabilities and their carers, as well as non-governmental organisations that support people with disabilities, and finally having regard to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of October 2014, when the judges found it necessary to take new legislative action, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club prepared a new draft law on the assistance of independent individuals in the previous term. This preparation was preceded by meetings or round tables, meetings at tables. These meetings were held both with NGOs, parents and carers of people with disabilities. Various requests were made. These demands were very much, some were very contradictory and this led to delays in the preparation of the new project. I have this question to the Minister: Will such meetings at the round table continue, or will the meetings at the tables continue? But as I mentioned, a complete document containing, among other things, an impact assessment prepared by experts has been submitted to the Ministry. At the time, the Head of the Ministry also pointed out the sources of financing for the costs of implementing the new rules. Further questions are therefore raised: will you continue to work on this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who's been prepared? If so, what schedule have you drawn up and when can we expect to submit the project to the marshal's staff? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u127	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The need to help the carers of disabled, independent, and above all those who care for adults with disabilities is very high. I know these problems, I have constant contact with the disabled in the region, and they are asking me today if there is a chance to make the changes they are talking about, asking when the inconsistencies in the case law system will be clarified, when the rules on family benefits that are mutually exclusive at the moment will be changed. I know that the problems of sick people, elderly people, disabled people and their families - because where there is a disabled person, this is generally the problem of the whole family - are very difficult to solve, but in a country where family is first, there is also a duty to minimize the problems arising from disability. Work on the Act on the Protection of Disabilities continued in the Seym and in the Senate of the previous term and the Act was submitted in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I would like to ask the Minister: Will the bill submitted continue to be examined? Is it possible to pay in a short period of time the provision of non-differentiated care, also in accordance with the draft new law? I talk to the disabled, and I know perfectly well that they get that they have even received compensation with interest for the time when they were not paid, but there is still a problem to compensate - that they receive the same amount of benefit in the case of a judgment concerning a person before the age of 18 and, later, an adult. Thank you so much, and I'm asking for your answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u129	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! During the work on amending the Family Benefits Act during the past term of office, people with disabilities and their carers came in, among others. requests that care provision be granted to persons receiving pension benefits equal to the difference between the amount of care provision and the amount of pension benefits collected. As far as I know, the current legal situation completely excludes the possibility for such persons to apply for or part of a care provision. In addition, it was also requested that persons entitled to provide care or care allowance for the care of a disabled person should be able to acquire the right to unemployment benefit in the event of the death of the person in need of care or the loss of validity of the disability statement. That is why I wanted to ask: Are these demands and proposals taken into account or will they be taken into account during the work on the amendment of this law? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u131	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd have two questions for you. Do you assume, when working on this law, that you can benefit from a senate project to grant unemployment benefits for the cessation of personal care for a disabled person due to the death of the person who has been cared for? It is well known that such a senate project has been prepared, but I would be interested if you would refer to it. And second question. Are you assuming the possibility of varying benefits for both carers and adults with disabilities depending on the degree of disability, which could, of course, be assessed on a different scale? The debate on this issue has also been progressing before, and now that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal needs to be met, this issue could be dealt with again. To some extent, it would seal the system and those who pay taxes to the budget would have the confidence that they would be properly shared and used in relation to care for disabled people, both adults and children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On 1 January 2016, the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on family benefits and certain other laws entered into force on the initiative of PSL. The aim of the Act is to guarantee financial security for parents outside the ZUS system, including farmers. The Act guarantees parents who, for various reasons, do not have the right to maternity leave, pay 1 000. zł Family allowance per month in the first year of birth. As far as funding is concerned, 40% for farmers the amount of the benefit is actually covered by the contribution fund, i.e. the strict money of the farmers. The new provisions, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, do not give legal grounds to ask the KRUS for the payment of the child's father's allowance under the old rules which were in force until 31 December 2015, where the child was still born in 2015 and in principle at the end of 2015. And, Minister, let me give you an example. A farmer - a man, here we are talking about fathers subject to social insurance of farmers under a law whose spouse is not subject to social insurance of farmers, for example. works and is subject to the Social Security Office or conducts business activity and is subject to the Social Security Office, which was born in 2015 but did not make it for any reason whether the reasons for applying for an allowance to KRUS under the law applicable until 31 December e.g. this may apply to children born in the last days of December, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the absence of a birth certificate or random events, illness, etc. Therefore, this means that the Act of 1 January no longer gives this possibility and that farmer, the father, has lost those rights. Question to the Minister: Does the Ministry not therefore provide for any transitional provisions? The new law introduced did not give such opportunities. [[Not this bill, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u135	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of people who've been voicemailed. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm just trying to sum it up, but I'm also trying to correct it. I know perfectly well that the Civic Platform has prepared a bill. I know it was also an answer to the Constitutional Court's judgment. It is said that the judgments were not executed by the States, that was to refer to the allegations of the current authority, the PiS, concerning the fact that the State did not execute those judgments. So don't treat it as an attack. It was just a reply that, since the PiS has allegations that you didn't do it, it's a perfect opportunity for the Law and Justice to show that you can do it, and to execute at least the most important sentences. That's one thing. Second thing. I am very pleased that from each group we have people who are socially involved, for whom very important matters are those who are excluded. I am happy because we also have the opportunity to meet in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. I hope that we will be able to work out good things together, because this is no longer about party issues, but about really helping those who need this help. I'm glad you mentioned a special team, Minister. I hope that we can all take part in the work of this special team, that it will not be closed. I hope that the round table meetings will continue and that it will all be able to combine and work together, because it is really very important. We must remember, ladies and gentlemen, that people with disabilities are also citizens, these are people who have rights, just like everyone else. I had a dream that my arms and legs had been cut off. Although I really wanted to do something, I really needed the help of a doctor to start rehabilitating and act, I was all alone in some abandoned hall. And I have the feeling that people with disabilities feel that way, that they're left to themselves. Although they are in a state of law, the aid they receive must involve protests before the Sejm, going out on the street, showing how they are in a situation of poverty. I personally know families who are affected by disability and are friends with them. For several years, I worked with various organizations. I was a journalist doing programs about the disabled, so I know this situation perfectly well, I know the problems of these people, and I regret that very often we only talk about people who move around, for example. in a wheelchair, and we forget about other disabilities, and these disabilities are a huge mass and are very often disabilities, which are completely invisible to the naked eye. I suspect that there are people in our plenary room among our Members who do not show that they are disabled, because they are not just the two carts we have, but they are, as I recall, also chronic diseases, which are also a disability. I hope that we will show a little more empathy and understanding for those who are in a difficult situation, because each of us does not know a day or an hour and may find ourselves in our lives at a time when he will need exactly such support. We cannot say that 520 PLN or 800 PLN is sufficient remuneration for a person who devoted his life to taking care of people with disabilities, i.e. he cannot work, he cannot meet his own needs, he gave his life to a disabled child. To hold on to that money is really impossible these days. I therefore ask that these people's proposals be worked out together here. I really hope that we can all sit together and lean on this problem as if it wasn't just a problem and only 150,000. citizens of our country, but as if it were a potential problem that could touch us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u137	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u138	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! To answer exactly your questions, as regards Mrs Mazurek's question, when we meet, with regard to this project, with the environment, I would like to say that this is planned properly without undue delay, I can declare that it will most likely be a meeting this month. With regard to the proportionality of those who represent individual interests, of course here we are fully open to all the environments that represent the interests of these people. The amount that was estimated in the draft law, which was prepared in the Ministry in the previous term, was PLN 550 million per year. The answer to your question, Mrs Kochan, as increased in 2012, 2013, 2014. The amount of care provided, which I will remind you, was introduced in 2004 in the amount of PLN 420 per month, in 2013 amounted to PLN 620, from 1 May 2014 - PLN 800, from 1 January 2015 - PLN 1200 and from 1 January this year - PLN 1300 per month net. [[Plus contributions, it's very important.]] Yeah, plus contributions paid to ZUS, of course. This corresponds to the net amount of the minimum wage. In 2017, a valorization is foreseen, nothing changes here. When it comes to differences in the views of these communities, of course We are aware that already on the occasion of that project these differences were mainly based on this imbalance, which is also indicated by the Constitutional Tribunal. These are issues related to the amount of these benefits for those taking care of children and for those taking care of adults. Our work will go in this direction to resolve these issues. Mr Lubczyk's question was whether we would execute the judgments of the tribunal. Of course we're gonna execute court judgments. Already in the Senate there is a legislative initiative aimed at implementing another judgment of the Court, also from 18 November 2014, our position will be... I can declare that we will lean towards supporting this project. Let me remind you, this is about carers who in one family could possibly take care of two people. As regards the answer to Mrs Golińska's question on issues relating to pensions for people before 1999, very low, all will be taken into account in the system work, because we want to resolve this problem systematically in the project. As far as care allowance is concerned, there is the exact same situation, that is, when we work on this project, we will consider this possibility, because we realise that this benefit has not actually been raised in a long time. Mrs Woodwicz, in terms of professional rehabilitation, will allow you to respond in writing. When it comes to the increase in this benefit from PLN 520, it is to be decided, we assume that we will be looking at it while working on comprehensive solutions. Mrs Mrzygłocka asks whether there will be a round table and what is the timetable. As far as the round table is concerned, as I said at the beginning, we are open to any suggestions from these communities, we do not discriminate against anyone here. We want to listen to these voices and work out a solution together. The band meets for the first time on January 21, 8 January was appointed. It hasn't been very long since we realized the importance of this matter in the family department, but we just have to Take a good look at her. Will the proposed law - this is Mrs Wasilewska's question - be examined, the previous one? At this point, I can't make such a declaration. We'll be working on new solutions. The question of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - this one we will implement, as I said, the Senate project is already being examined, this Senate project provides for a solution to the second issue of the dual guardian. Both as regards pre-retirement benefits - this is the answer to Mr Pole's question - as well as unemployment benefits, possibly for those people who received care benefits and lost them as a result of events independent of the carers of the disabled, of course we are aware of this problem and this will also be the subject of work in the process of developing these systemic solutions. Mrs Gelert asks about the degree of disability. It seems that here we should think in such categories that issues related to certain disabilities... [[With a degree of independence, Minister.]] ...with the degree of independence - Madam, thank you very much for the suggestion - will be taken into account in some way or should be taken into account in the context of these systemic solutions. As for Mrs Noise's question, it will allow you to give me a written answer, because this is a very technical issue... [[It's a very complex subject.]] I understand that this is a technical issue, but of course, the fact is that since January it has entered into force is 1000 PLN for uninsured people, this is a good solution. I think that's all the questions. If you feel unsatisfied, I ask for written submissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u139	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 25 hours 12 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws (print No 157). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Michał Dworczyk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Communications Commission with Poles abroad a draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. The Polish Charter Act was prepared by the government of Jarosław Kaczyński and entered into force in 2008. It's been nearly eight years since then. A good time to sum up the work of this law so far, carry out an evaluation and also listen to the voices of our fellow countrymen from the East, for whom we have prepared and adopted this law. And it was after such a deep consultation with NGOs that the Commission launched a legislative initiative with the intention of introducing a relatively deep revision. We propose the following changes. The last year pointed out that there is no legal basis for our countrymen, holders of the Polish Charter in extraordinary situations, in health and life-threatening situations, to be able to evacuate from areas at risk in order to give them effective assistance. During the last year, as I said, we had to evacuate Poles from Donbass twice and one of the problems that the Polish state encountered at that time was just a lack of legal basis for effective assistance. We are introducing a provision which, while respecting international law, will create such an opportunity. Thanks to it, the holders of the Polish Charter will be treated on similar terms as Polish citizens in health and life-threatening situations. The second important change we are proposing is a change consisting in making it easier to settle in the Republic of Poland. Firstly, we propose to exempt from all fees the holders of the Polish Charter, both those who apply for Polish citizenship through the consulates of the Republic of Poland and those who come to Poland, want to receive a permanent residence card and then citizenship. We propose that every holder of the Polish Charter may, upon arrival in Poland, be free of charge, automatically, if he so wishes, receive a permanent residence card and then after a year, if he so wishes, receive Polish citizenship. During this year, we propose that during this year he should receive support from the Polish state, financial support which could be used to finance the rental of the apartment, to learn Polish language or to train professionally. I think this is an extremely important issue, because I would like to remind you that even in its current formula, the Law on repatriation covers only our compatriots living in the Asian part of the Soviet Union, and Poles living in the area of today's Belarus, Ukraine is not able to benefit from repatriation. The solution proposed by us to all those who would like to come to Poland permanently will create this possibility. It can also be pointed out here that from the point of view of the Polish state, from the point of view of the demographic problems with which we meet, this solution is also beneficial, because it is probably a much better solution if we could solve demographic deficiencies or demographic problems, using Poles, people of Polish origin from the East, not people who come from completely different cultural circles. Another important change we are proposing is the change in the possibility of applying for the Polish Charter not only, as so far, in the consulates of the Republic of Poland, but also in the voivodship offices. In countries where there is no full democracy, such as: Belarus, the authorities are reluctant to look at those applying for the Polish Charter. For this reason, some have not decided to apply for this document so far. Through the proposed change, we want to create a situation in which such a person, our countryman, arrives, for example. to Bialystok, he could arrange all the formalities at the provincial office and then pick up the Pole's Charter after a certain time without exposing himself to harassment by the Belarusian authorities. Another important change that we are introducing is the exemption from the interview with the consul of people who graduated from school with the Polish language of teaching. This change has not only a practical dimension, and in this way we also raise the prestige of these institutions. There are not many of them, because in Belarus they are two schools, in Ukraine - six, in Lithuania - almost 100, but we should ensure that the prestige, the reputation of these schools is as high as possible. In our view, the change we are proposing is building the prestige of these institutions. Another issue and another change we propose in the amendment is the transfer of the former President of the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The law is implemented to a large extent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where there are people who are best placed in the problem of the law. It seems that this advice should clearly be assigned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This will also allow for its more efficient and efficient functioning. Finally, I would like to say that all these changes are the result, as I mentioned at the beginning, of the deep consultation that we carried out. We sent questions to over 130 Polish organizations, we also consulted NGOs operating in Poland. Of course, not all expectations have been met. Some of these expectations were contradictory, but it seems to us that these proposals we are making are certainly a way out of meeting the expectations of many Polish communities and a step in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u141	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u142	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say very briefly that Law and Justice have always placed great importance on helping Poles outside the country, working with Polonia and Poles outside the country. In 2005 and 2007, when the government of Law and Justice was responsible for such care, it was created, among others. Polish university in Vilnius, co-financed Polish schools in Vilnius, the Polish Charter Act was adopted. At the moment Law and Justice, the club and the government are working on the law on repatriation, the law on the care of the Republic of Poland for Polonia and Poles abroad. This was always an important point of our programme, so we will support the presented project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u143	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zietniak, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position regarding the draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. The draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws aims, on the one hand, to introduce a number of solutions facilitating the colonization of the Polish Charter holders in the territory of the Republic of Poland, among others. through an adaptation package and by facilitating the application for Polish citizenship. On the other hand, provision has been made to correct or clarify existing solutions. Until now, the holders of the Polish Charter have been left to themselves, often without means of life, with minimal possessions, which they managed to bring to Poland. The amendments to the Act are intended to help these people start a new life, adapt to new living conditions and, through State aid, bring them to a state where they will become independent and work and maintain themselves. The most important changes envisaged by the amendment include: the possibility of applying for the Polish Charter through the voivodeship, which will be the second body next to the consul authorized to award the Polish Charter. This is intended to facilitate particularly for citizens of countries where the holders of the Polish Charter can face repression by the authorities. It should be clarified whether the voivodships will take over the powers of consuls in their entirety or whether there are any competences that remain solely within the competence of consuls. Second thing: exempting the holders of the Polish Charter from consular fees for the acceptance and processing of the application for a national visa. So far these fees have been a source of income for consulates. The question is whether, in this case, the consulates will not suffer financially. Introducing the right to assist the consul in situations of life or security of the holders of the Polish Charter, within the competence of the consul, respecting international rights and customs. It is necessary to clarify the nature of this assistance, the form in which it is to be provided, what situations will be deemed to be dangerous to safety and life. Will the consul be able to count on the support of the relevant services? Another issue is the emergence of the role of the old-timer and local self-government units in the article. 8d: Forms, the amount and method of granting aid to a person residing in Poland on the basis of a permanent residence permit obtained on the basis of the Polish Charter and the members of its immediate family by local government units shall be determined by the authorities constituting these units. The question is whether local authorities are aware of the new tasks that will fall on them. Were there consultations with local authorities on the new powers? The old days will take over a lot of tasks related to helping the holders of the Polish Charter. Were there any consultations with the elders or with the county's association of staffing opportunities of the authorities? Financial assistance from the State budget for reimbursement of travel expenses, housing adaptation, professional activation, taking up the education of minors are important for the future - ensuring a decent existence for people coming to Poland. However, consideration should be given to the size of the budgetary reserve from which the resources for these tasks will come. Will this reserve be sufficient? Since 2008, 170 000 have been adopted. applications for the award of the Polish Charter. At the moment, the revised law also provides for assistance for card holders' families. Hence the question of whether the reserve will be sufficient. The new records will certainly encourage more people to apply for this card. We must take into account the growing interest in obtaining the Polish Charter and the financial consequences of all the privileges which the Pole Charter holders make an amendment should be foreseen. The Civic Platform Club, bearing in mind the welfare of Poles abroad, welcomes the draft amendment of the law. In particular, rules facilitating the life of those applying for the Polish Charter, forms of financial assistance enabling them to adapt, start working, adapt to the labour market, among others. by learning Polish language in Poland and all changes going in the right direction, which are intended to facilitate life and provide assistance to those in need, are desirable and accepted. However, some general issues need to be clarified and the financial capacity of the State in terms of the aid granted should be more detailed. It is also necessary to estimate how many beneficiaries of this aid Poland can expect. Thank you very much. I presented the position of the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. This project was prepared by the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad, which I am Vice-President, and in our opinion the rapid pace of work on amending the law has not translated into the quality of the project. Border and Polonia organisations have had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the proposed changes and to express their own views on this issue. The Polish Charter Act was introduced in 2007 and after 8 years of validity it was high time to meet the expectations of our compatriots, who often paid attention to the too narrow range of support mechanisms that the Pole Charter holders had received so far. The present bill makes a number of changes, which aim to increase the availability of the Polish Charter for our compatriots living abroad, simplifying their arrival in Poland and acclimatization in the Republic of Poland. It is also important to introduce a quick and clear process of granting Polish citizenship. All Poles who lost Polish citizenship during the war and their descendants who feel Poles should be able to return to the status of a full citizen of the Republic of Poland. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 welcomes the provision introducing the possibility of applying for the Poles' Charter through the voivodeship. However, we want to be very sensitive to the officials granting the document, so that in decision-making they follow a deep understanding of the position of our fellow countrymen in the East, especially during the communism period. It should be remembered that Poles were subjected to severe repression and Sovietisation. These factors must be taken into account in the process of verification of belonging to the Polish people. We also consider it a good solution to abolish consular fees for the adoption and examination of a request for a national visa. In the 2007 Act, there was a provision on the possibility of exemption from such a charge or its refund at a written request, which was widely used, so the Polish State did not have any higher income on this basis. The proposed amendment will therefore not, in our opinion, reduce the revenue of the state and at the same time reduce bureaucracy, which as a Kukiz club15 will always be supported. The same is true of changes concerning the exemption from consular fees for the adoption of the application and the preparation of documentation on the granting of Polish citizenship to people holding the Polish Charter. Another of the changes introduced is the introduction of wide adaptation instruments for holders of the Polish Charter wishing to settle in Poland. Most of the provisions in the article come from the Reparation Act and concern the possibility of covering travel expenses, the partial cost of renting a dwelling, the cost of living or the cost of vocational education and training. We believe that these changes will increase the possibility of settling in the territory of the Republic of Poland holders of the Polish Charter. At this point we would also like to draw attention to the fact that, together with the changes in the Polish Charter, there should be an increase in support for Polish organizations in the East, which will be most responsible for maintaining Polishness in the former territories of the Republic of Poland. Poles who do not decide to come to Poland must have increased care of the Polish state, both diplomatic, material and educational. From this point we want to assure all Poles in the East: we will not forget about you, and we will submit an appropriate draft amendment to the budget on this issue today. At the same time we notice a few dangers, based on past experiences. During the period of validity of the Polish Charter, about 170 thousand were issued. these documents, mainly Poles living in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania. In the majority of people receiving the Polish Charter were motivated by the desire to mark their belonging to the Polish people, which is an exact assumption of the applicable rules. Unfortunately, some of the people who became holders of this document were motivated only and exclusively by the desire to exercise the powers conferred on them by this document. The additional powers introduced by this amendment may cause Poles who are illegally applying for the Polish Charter to arrive. In the history of issuing this document, there have been loud cases involving both receiving cards on the basis of false documents and the suspicion of receiving cards as a result of corruption. We also have cases of unworthy behaviour of people who received the Polish Charter. There are cases of people who photographed with flagship flags in Przemyśl and Rzeszów, people who have symbols associated with pro-bander movements in dorms in Lublin and several other such cases. It should be noted that these people, although apparently not identified with the Polish people, and their behaviour was derogatory to the Republic of Poland, did not lose their cards. Therefore, in order to prevent such situations from happening in the future, we have tabled an appropriate amendment in committee work. As a Kukiz club15, we welcome most of the proposed changes, while believing that possible issues will be resolved in committee. We believe that the slogan: We want a repatriate instead of an emigrant, thanks to our joint work we will soon put into practice. Therefore, we will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We welcomed the initiative of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad, which aims to amend the law. For us, this is a specific act of historical justice, a form of debt repayment that we have towards our compatriots, who, as a result of many tragic events, tragic our history, exiles, war activities or the shifting of borders of the Republic of Poland, have found themselves outside its territory. The project is not the implementation of a repatriation policy, as the President rightly said, but it can result, according to various estimates, in coming to our country even about 100,000. persons. I would like to point out that this is a proposal primarily for young people and middle-aged people, because I think such people will decide to settle in our country. I will remind you of the basic assumptions of this novel. The holder of the Polish Charter will be able to come to Poland, obtain the right of permanent residence, and will be exempt from the costs which are related to these issues. Moreover, in the first year of his stay in Poland he will also be entitled to finance rent of apartments, Polish language learning and other needs related to adaptation in the Republic of Poland. After a year he will finally be able to obtain Polish citizenship. This is the first such comprehensive solution, from which we are very, very happy. However, we believe that there should be in particular two important issues in the project, two major changes. The first concerns the scope of the award of the Polish Charter. Let me remind you that the Polish Charter is granted to people who are over 65 years of age. We want these people to be offered some opportunities as well. These people, for obvious reasons, will probably not choose to come to our country because it is difficult to decide to change their place of residence when they are 65 years old or older. This is why we want to propose, and we will present this idea in the committee, so that these people can be given the opportunity to finance the purchase of medicines or receive the reimbursement of medical services. These are older people and very often their material situation on the ground does not allow them to afford the medical care they need at this point in time. The second proposal we will be presenting is the question of removing the possibility of obtaining a Pole's Charter by people without Polish origin. I would like to remind you that there is a mechanism in the Act which guarantees the possibility of obtaining a Pole's Charter as a result of a positive opinion of the Polish organization about the activities of such a person in favour of Polish environments. We believe that this possibility, especially when the Polish Charter contains a number of attractive financial decisions, will lead to abuse. We are afraid - and such signals I received - that some of these certificates issued by Polish organizations had no real basis. Despite these proposals, which I hope will be reflected in the final draft of the amendment, we will support this solution as a good solution for Poland as a solution, which is an act of historical justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is a great honour to me that I can present the position of the Polish People's Party on the draft law on amending the Polish Charter Act. High Izbo! The current Act of 7 September 2007 on the Polish Charter is a law that needs to be settled and the problems faced by our fellow countrymen and, in particular, those from across the eastern border must be addressed. It is a historical repair of the history and fate of people who were exported from the territory of the Republic of Poland to be sent during the partitions and break-ups of independence. They are descendants, to whom Poland is obliged and should stand at the highest level to take care of its nation, which for its highest patriotism was thrown on a difficult and very difficult wanderer. This is for the reconstruction of the Polish state after World War I, for the opposition of 17 September 1939 and during World War II and during the Stalinist repressions after its completion Poles could not return to the country over the Vistula from the East or West. The draft law amending the Act on the Polish Charter and amending certain laws aims to introduce a number of solutions facilitating the holders of the Polish Charter to settle in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Polish People's Party believes that this is a good time to introduce the proposed solutions, which shows this, among others. for 2 years the conflict in Ukraine, still unstable political, social and economic situation has hit Polish citizens strongly. It is important to mention Poles residing in Belarus, where the rules still make it difficult to apply for the Polish Charter. The Act provides that when they encounter problems in their own country, they can apply for the Polish Charter in Poland through the voivodeship. Proposals to amend the Polish Charter Act - and these are good proposals - include: exemption from consular fees for the admission and processing of a national visa application or for the development of documentation on the assignment of Polish citizenship, and for the people from the eastern border these are the dam amounts. The Polish Charter provides for the possibility of providing a permanent residence permit obtained on the basis of the Polish Charter and the members of its immediate family with one-time assistance provided for: reimbursement of the costs of coming to Poland, development and maintenance, partial payment of the costs of renting a housing unit or learning Polish language. It is good that the Act provides for the professional activation of persons residing in Poland for permanent residence obtained on the basis of the Polish Charter. This applies to those who do not have professional qualifications or have professional qualifications which are not useful in the labour market. The possibility of reimbursement of employer's salary, prizes and employment and other insurance contributions is envisaged. The Polish People's Party provides that the proposed changes will have a positive social impact. The changes make it easier for Poles to return to Poland from eastern areas, which has always produced a positive social and national resonance. Due to the migration crisis in Europe, the Polish Charter will have a good impact on the settlement of compatriots in their homeland, whose name is Poland. In Polish society they will be received positively, this is an important element of social awareness of the commitment to Poles from abroad. We refer to good practices, and I would like to remind you that already years ago the slogan: Each municipality receives a Polish family from Kazakhstan, very well received in local and national environments. It can be assumed that this will have a positive economic impact. As experience so far shows, young people want to bind their future with Poland, and people in a mature age want to live in Poland for better or for worse. The Polish People's Party advocates the adoption of the proposal and further work on amending the Polish Charter Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u151	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor. Time - one and a half minutes. If any of you want to be on the list again, please. I'll close the list after I ask the second question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are many votes in favour of changes proposed in the bill amending the Polish Charter Act. The amendment introduces a number of solutions to facilitate the colonization of Poles' Charter holders on the territory of the Republic of Poland. There are also Poles, especially from Donbas, who came to us a year ago, whom we adopted during the Civil Platform, and they have many questions about family reunification. There are, for example. situations when my wife and children live in Poland now, there is such a case with me in Suwałki, I also hire such a person in a cultural institution, and there is a problem with family reunification. Father and husband still live in the territory of Donbas, in Donetsk, there is no Polish Card because there is no Polish roots. They want to make it easier, and they want to be able to bring these families together in a very special way. They also point out that Donetsk and Lugansk are still occupied by separatists. They also make a proposal to make it possible to speed up the waiting for applications to be submitted to the consulate in a way that is specific and quicker. For today, I want to say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] people living in this area must wait up to 7 months for their application to be accepted at the consulate in Kharkov, because the consulate in Donetsk has been closed. I have a question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is the possibility of regulation considered in such specific cases, e.g. a regulation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to make it so easy and to speed up the time limits for receiving these applications in consulates in these areas so that it is more specific and faster so that these families can be combined in the Republic of Poland? One more, one last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u153	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u154	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u155	No, my fellow Member. Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. I ask you to comply with your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three short questions. The law is very much needed, the amendment of the law is very much needed, and some issues are not resolved in it. The first one we've already mentioned here, from its very essence... The preamble of this law states that this is a certain reward for those from whom the border has emigrated. These are the judges. It was already mentioned: when they get here, they're gonna need medical protection. It is necessary to solve this problem... I understand that the government has proposed, will offer some solutions for people after 75 years of age, but for those Poles who will repatriate, it is necessary - otherwise they will be afraid to come. The second issue concerns young people who would like to participate fully in public life with the Polish Charter, even in a passive way. This problem didn't exist either, and it's very important. A man wants to feel like a Pole. If we're doing an amendment, let's do it in such a way as to be satisfactory. The last question concerns the solution to such a time question. The moment someone receives a permanent residence card, the Pole card is taken away from him. This involves taking away different powers. In Poland it is - this problem - it is very different. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. So, for example. In Mazowsze, no one takes away these rights, and strictly, in Pomerania. [[Voice from the room: You answered.]] It is worth solving this issue, so that there is some social justice, of course, with a view to the welfare of those people who are already in Poland and have the Polish Charter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15. There is no Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project envisages imposing a new task on the old age, consisting in issuing a discretionary decision on the reimbursement of the costs associated with the renovation or adaptation of the residential premises for a person residing in Poland on the basis of the Polish Charter. The Starosta would also be obliged to pay this benefit and other cash benefits granted to the holders of the Polish Charter. However, there is no provision in the draft law to guarantee that the counties will be reimbursed for this further task in the field of government administration. As regards the payment of benefits, the draft law also does not specify the time limits within which the funds will be transferred to the powiats. This gives rise to the risk that the counties need to borrow from their own resources the expenditure of the State budget. I would therefore like to ask: Will these issues be taken into account during further work on the law and has the draft law been consulted with local government units? This is extremely important from the point of view of our local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Zietniak, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the Polish Charter Act are expected among Poles and Polish people. However, they have significant financial and organisational implications. The rights to grant the Polish Charter are to be granted by the voivodships. My question is: On what basis will their responsibilities be extended? Which ones? Or just on the east wall or everyone? And how can you... Will it be possible to choose the voivode to go to, or will it be determined? Two. Does the consultation show how many people will apply for the Polish Charter? When there were questions, did these answers come in, do these organizations have insight, how many people will seek the Polish Charter? And is it enough - a question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - money for all proposed changes? Is there any way to determine how much they need? Are, you can say, calculations are made on the basis of... How much money will it take and will it be? I hope they will. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Many questions are pressing on the lips in connection with this amendment of the Act, but I think that some will be explained at the subcommittee meetings and at the next reading we will be able to answer them. On the other hand, I remember proceding the first Polish Charter Act in September 2007. I also remember that she was being processed quite hastily, because it was the end of her term of office, probably September 7th was the end of her term of office at that time. We wanted, we wanted to ensure that Poles, especially Poles in the East, received this bill, that Polish Charter could be implemented. And in the next term, we tried not to interfere, even though we were aware that many records would have to be changed, but we tried not to interfere, in addition to the necessary changes, e.g. related to the European directives, with Schengen, with changes in the terminology for visas or stateless persons, Latvians, those who live in Latvia and Estonia. And also in this term, that's why it's my question, we're doing it pretty fast. The term has just begun, we are already reading, and we already have opinions of the environment, all of you have received a letter from the editor of Shakalicka, we already have negative opinions in the sense that they are not consulted with them. And my question, the request to actually extend this consultation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second question that's already been asked here is about the old men. I also ask for their comprehensive opinion as to how they can deal with the issue of the Polish Charter and issues related to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u165	Thank you, Member. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, there are doubts and disturbing signals that funds for security, for the Polish Charter, in particular the so-called. repatriating... They are secured very well, but I have a question for the Minister: Are financial resources provided for Polish organizations to operate and revive those who remain in place and do not leave? Does the government have a program? I can give you one of these examples. I know the Minister knows these areas well, e.g. the solenoid region. So what if we started a Boy Scouting, we squeezed our hands, and they said, "Please revive us, companies, companies, give us some." Will the government be willing to help, in such areas also to be created with the capital of the Polish state, e.g. in the form of a joint venture, a company? In order to build them and there, on the spot, to sustain Polishness, one needs to have a good economy or a company that will secure the work. And from this point on, I would like to address this question to the Minister to make it so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u167	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Jan Dziedziczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your interest in this subject. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs welcomed the idea of the Polish Charter in 2007. At the moment, we are also adopting this amendment with great interest and hope, because the Polish Charter has proved to be an extremely necessary tool, important for many reasons, but this amendment will certainly improve and extend the scope of this card, which we are pleased with. So we look forward to developing the legislative work, and we welcome it with great satisfaction. As far as the questions of your Members are concerned, most of these questions, I believe, are more addressed to the Ministry of Home Affairs than to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Minister Skiba will answer them in a moment, and a few questions were specifically addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, above all Mrs Kaminska's question. It's about family reunification. This will be taken up by the MMA in a moment, and as far as these are concerned, the Member was kind to suggest a few months' waiting periods... [[Expectations...]] ...that question really bothered us. Please provide details, we will address them in writing. This is absolutely unacceptable and I thank you for this question. As far as the other questions are concerned, Mrs Fabisiak. As far as elections are concerned, according to Polish law, the possibility of activeness is only passive in relation to citizenship and at the moment this is what the rules look like. It is up to the State, the legislative authority, if any, to amend these provisions. As far as clearance is concerned, this is of course where Minister Skib will speak. Mrs Navel's questions are not addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr Ziamniak, I have the impression that he has asked more questions to the Ministry of Finance than to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we will be looking at your work on the budget bill with hope, because of course the money is very much needed. I hope that they will be taken into account by you. Mr Baszko asked an important question about work with Polish organisations in the East. As we know, everything indicates that money will be at the disposal of the Senate, money for cooperation with Polish organizations will be at the disposal of the Senate. We approach this with hope and hope for good cooperation with the Senate. We're counting on them to be properly distributed. All the institutions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our consular services, diplomatic services in the East are at your disposal, serve as advice to the institutions of the Senate, so that in the most effective, fair and effective way it is distributed among our fellow countrymen in the East. As far as investments are concerned, Prime Minister Morawiecki went to Vilnius on his first foreign visit, the first point of this visit was to meet with the leaders of Polish organizations in Lithuania and issues related to the investment of the Polish state, with the cooperation of our investors with representatives of Poles in the East, with coordinated action, also through the Polish diplomatic services in this field, were an important element of these talks. I know that the Ministry of Development, Prime Minister Morawiecki, will take concrete action on this, so that this is already happening and I think that it will soon be effective. Our fellow countrymen in the East should also feel the support of their country's economic institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u169	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, as corrected. [[I wanted to correct it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, As far as the facts concerning participation in elections are concerned, I know what the law is, but we are working on a new law, on certain powers, on the Polish Charter, and therefore on certain powers for Poles who are to be repatriated, who have been deprived of their citizenship, because they did not resign. So I propose a moment of reflection on the systemic solution of this problem and on certain powers, because if we give financial powers, why shouldn't we give just such citizens. And that's another thing. Here I did not receive an answer, these were two questions - questions about financing or refinancing medicines for these oldest Poles. If they repatriate, it is necessary to give them a certain security in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u171	Thank you very much. And Mrs Navel, also in the mode of correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u172	Minister, I do not know whether it is already a standard in this House, that when we ask, we do not receive an answer. I put a clear question, very simple: Will local government units finance this task? And I didn't get an answer. In my view, if this is not enshrined in the Act, it is again passed on to old-timers who still do not have the financial resources for the day-to-day maintenance, and they are again burdened with another task. I'd like to know that, please give me an answer today, and if you can't give me that answer today, I'm asking for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u173	Thank you. You have not yet given an opportunity to respond. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jakub Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u174	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, welcomes the presentation of this project with great satisfaction and believes that it is a good initiative in the right direction. But it should be strongly emphasised at this point that both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration are not yet hosts of this project. This project is a commission project. Therefore, both ministries have not yet had a procedural opportunity and opportunity to comment on this, so that I believe that at least a few of the questions you have asked are not addressed to both ministries, but to applicants. However, in this respect, which concerns the existing functioning of the Polish Charter Act, of course both ministries are ready to respond. I, in particular, have identified two questions that I am going to answer at this point. Firstly, Mrs Kaminska's question is about family reunification. I would like to remind you that in the case of actions bringing Poles from Donbas and from Mariupola it was not carried out on the basis of the Law on repatriation, therefore, from a formal point of view there is no problem of family reunification. The issue should and should be settled by means of a normal visa procedure to be initiated and conducted at the consulate. Of course, if there are irregularities in this regard, thank you very much for this information. This is also not the responsibility of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. As regards Mrs Fabisiak's question, I would also like to remind you that the question of obtaining permanent residence permits by people who have so far had the Polish Charter means to return the card, as well as to obtain the permit means to enter directly into all these benefits concerning social security rights in force in Poland under normal conditions. So this is the legal situation, and so is the practice. With regard to the other questions made by your Members, I would like to point out once again that, as we understand them, they are addressed to applicants. On the other hand, of course, I would stress that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will be involved and will make detailed comments on all matters that will continue to follow up the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u175	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Indeed, some of the questions were clearly addressed to the applicants and I will try to answer them. Firstly, when it comes to family reunification, what Mrs Kaminska said, I think that if you in order to find the idea of how this can be written down by law, the committee will certainly be open to such proposals at the next stage of the process. This has not really been in the project so far, but, I stress, if there is such an amendment, of course we will want to put it in this project. [[There's gonna be an amendment.]] As far as the matter is concerned - although it is a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - access to consulates, because I understand that the question of waiting for a conversation with a consul, the question of meeting with a consul, the truth, or the whole procedure for obtaining a Pole's Charter, is not described in the law, it is rather the solutions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we have been informed for a long time that there are queues, there are problems. It will certainly be a subject, as the Minister said, to be examined, although it will not be possible to find this solution anywhere. We talked about Ukraine, but I will give an example of Belarus. In Belarus, the Belarusian authorities refuse to accept more consuls who would deal with the Polish Charter. And here it will be very difficult for us to solve this problem, but that's why there are also others. The initiative to include the voivodship authorities in the possibility of issuing the Polish Charter, because we assume that some people who want to get this document faster are determined, too, will be able to go and sort it out much faster in the voivodship office. As regards Mrs Fabisiak's speech, the Minister has already responded. First of all, the residence card provides the entire security of permanent residence, the entire medical security provides. That's the first thing. And the second thing about electoral law is that there is more, not a matter of law, but if the Civic Platform is open to discuss changes to the Constitution in this respect, I cannot say this on behalf of the Law and Justice, but I know that there are very many people in our formation who would also be interested in this. However, without amending the constitution of the voting issue, participation in elections, whether passive or active, is not an option. As far as the issue raised by Mrs Margaret Navel is concerned, this is the case. We consulted the local government on the proposed changes. We will continue to carry out such consultations in the course of the revision process. Indeed, we have assumed that the service of these tasks alone will not be so burdensome for local governments, because we are talking about a few, up to 10 thousand. we assumed that it would not be so burdensome that we would need additional resources to support it every year throughout the country. We just thought that it would be enough to make a special provision to pay these benefits, right, but we are also open to further dialogue and if there is a strong attitude of the local authorities on this issue that the means for service should also be allocated, then, of course, the committee will take this into account at a later stage of its work. As for the question of Mr Potatoak, of course we were talking, Mr President, at the committee meeting in which you participated, about this. And the answer is this: according to the proposed amendment, you can apply to any voivodeship, there is no circuit, no district, like, say, if you apply for a Pole Card, where there is a consular district, where you can apply for this document when it comes to voivodeship offices, we did not anticipate any regionalization. If you have any ideas and suggestions on this issue, we can also discuss it at a later stage. There hasn't been any doubt so far. There are no statistics on how many people will want to use these powers. The only thing we can refer to is the MMA data on how many people on the basis of Polish origin and the Polish Charter wanted to settle in Poland. On this basis it can be estimated, but these are absolutely estimates in my opinion not entirely reliable, that if the law entered into force in the proposed form, up to 10 thousand. people during the year could be interested in settling in Poland, using this law. I emphasize that these are estimates and they're unverifiable, right? There's no instrument that can measure this. And when it comes to the means of securing these changes, we talked about it, it's a special reserve, isn't it? And this special reserve each year, its amount is determined depending on the possibilities of the Polish state's budget. Mrs Rozpondek pointed out the need to extend the consultation. It's like this: we, as I said, presented this project, turned to 130 organizations. I assume this isn't a closed list, we haven't exhausted all the possibilities. We are still open to the next vote, but also, Commissioner, you know the Polish environments well beyond the borders of the country. Your editor Shakalicka is a person who has also been dealing with this issue for years. She knows very well that these environments often article contradictory postulates. I mean, some environments call for maximum opening of access to the Polish Charter, right, and others in turn would want extraordinary narrowing it down and very hard proving not even Polish origin, but the fact that someone is a tough Pole, such as, let's say, everyone who is here today in the Chamber, and we know that in the East it is not that simple, is it? History has been very dramatic there for the last few decades. Therefore, I personally am in favour of the widest possible access to the Polish Charter, while starting to use this record, which is in the Act, because there is an article in the Act that says that people who act to the detriment of the Polish State or behave in an unworthy manner may be deprived of the Polish Charter. So far this recipe has been practically dead, while he is. If we start using it, I think it will somehow solve the problem. On the one hand - wide access, but if this law is used by some business people and later it turns out that these people harm in one way or another the Polish state, such people should be effectively deprived of the Polish Charter. The example of some neo-Nazi or neo-Bander incident mentioned here by your President is proof that, although the rule is, it does not work, but it is not a matter of the law, but rather of its application. I would like to thank all of you once again for your comments, also thank the ministries for their cooperation so far and stress that, as a committee, we are open to taking into account, at the next stages of the process, the maximum number of comments and proposals that have been tabled. I think it is very important that this amendment proposal has been unanimously adopted by our committee, where we have simply tried to draw up a project, the primary objective of which is to help our fellow countrymen in the East. I believe that, in such a spirit of good cooperation, we will continue to proceed with this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u177	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 157, to the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 34 hrs. 13 min 45]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act (print No 164). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! Today we are talking about an extremely serious problem, High Izbo, in fact, we can say about a problem that is fundamental in nature, namely the taking away of children because of poverty. High Izbo! The analysis of a wide range of these issues, which the media have often written about, which you have heard very often from many citizens, clearly indicates that the problem exists and that the Polish state was acting badly in this regard, not to mention outrageously. The first half of 2015, the High Sejm - we carried out an analysis as the Ministry of Justice and imagine that by the middle of the year only because of poverty - as the only reason to take a child - this procedure was carried out in about 100 cases. 100 cases of taking a child only and only for the sole reason - poverty. In most cases there are various causes, but I am talking about cases where only poverty has decided that the child has been taken away. You can see similar data by reading the analysis of the Justice Institute, which collected the case files of recent years concerning the collection of children just because of poverty. And what's the result of this study, what's the conclusion? Well, it's over 60%. There was no violence in the traditional sense of taking births to a family - 60% cases, High Izbo. The Supreme Audit Chamber's auditors come to a similar conclusion as regards the State's activities in this area. High Izbo! There is no doubt that the problem is serious and that we need to resolve it quickly. In addition, it is imposed on this drastic way of exercising this right, leaving an irrefutable trace in the psyche of many children. I mean, we are dealing, first of all, with the preventive reception of children by officials without the decision of the court, officials unfortunately very often unskilled, making decisions too rashly, secondly, we are dealing, as I mentioned, with a drastic way of exercising this right. After all, the media had widely reported situations where officials had taken the baby from the breasts of the mother who was feeding it. This action leaves a trace in the child's psyche forever. Bulverizing and very specific examples we could talk about here were also described by the media, the High House probably heard of them. And while we are talking, High Sejm, about protecting the fundamental rights of the family, it is worth to refer to the book Constitution of the Republic of Poland - a fundamental law, which repeatedly mentions the protection of the family as a basic social cell. Let us only refer to the most important articles that correspond to this bill. Art. 47: Everyone has the right to legal protection of private and family life, honor and good name and to decide about his or her personal life. Art. 48: Parents have the right to raise their children according to their own beliefs - it is the mouth. 1. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2: The limitation or deprivation of parental rights may take place only in cases specified in the law and only on the basis of a final judgment of the court. And here we have this broad conflict of interest, which I mentioned, namely, many of these children are received without a court decision, in a so-called way. Preemptive. High Seym! During the whole discussion about this very serious problem we forget one more thing, namely the fundamental commitment of the Polish state towards families, about the principle of subsidiarity. There can be no such situation, the High Sejm, for example. the fact that the family has a problem and therefore addresses the relevant authorities of the State, has economic problems, problems of various kinds, as happens in many families, and the state takes shortcuts - instead of providing help to the family, decides to take away the child from the family. You can't do that in such a way and in such a philosophy of state activity, High Sejm, agree. The State, if it sees that the family has problems, has a duty to help, has a duty to provide appropriate assistance. All the more so, High Sejm, that if we take the child only because of poverty or poverty, it is an important factor in making such a decision and we transfer this child to foster care, that is where the Polish state moves, High Sejm, usually about 2 thousand. zł. So, High Izbo, if it were the 2,000. Leave it to the biological family, so what? That would be a no-show for that child. This is an absolutely illogical, astate activity, High Izbo, we need to change that. Therefore, High Sejm, I do not hesitate here to use statements such as the fact that the previous laws and practice of applying this law were very often disgraceful, outrageous, one might even say, High Sejm, that this is a great disgrace on the honor of those who have introduced and tolerated this solution. [[Applause]] I want to say, High Sejm, that today we are introducing a bill that will end with one problem: taking children for poverty, but we are preparing a bill that will already complement a whole range of problems related to, among others. with a broad definition of the violence that we were given some time ago. I want to say, High Sejm, that if we adopt this bill, it will end this shameful procedure, we will change it, we will fix the bill and we are speaking clearly today, then there is also to be a clear message to the justice system, to the people who decide it, and to the Polish society. There is no consent to further destruction of the family's institutions. The institution of the family is a basic social cell, it is the heart of Poland and we will make sure that this heart continues to beat strongly. [[Applause]] High Sejm, there is no Poland without family and there is no family without Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u179	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! I say this on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that we support this project. The Minister presented here social aspects, he referred to the data of the Ministry of Justice this year. I'm going to quote the Foundation's Parental Rights Ombudsman for the last four years, which is the scale of the problem. The Foundation investigated more than 700 cases of this type and around 150 cases were completed by judgment, the removal of parents of children just as a result of their economic situation. First of all, it was about low material status, even family poverty. The charges against parents were that they did not meet the basic needs of their children, there are bad housing conditions, long-term unemployment or sudden job losses by both parents. Social exclusion was only a small part of the issue. Therefore, there is a need to amend the article. 109 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L In addition to these legal bases, which the Minister has also provided, I would also like to quote an article. 72. 2nd Constitution, which reads as follows: A child deprived of parental care is entitled to care and assistance from public authorities. The scale of this problem in relation to the number of children who are in foster families, and this is the data of the CSO for 2012-2014, is that it is more than 57 thousand. children. In institutions that also deal with foster care, so-called. the institutional care is over 19 thousand. children, and this tends to increase, so it's time to prevent it. What are the main proposals resulting from this project? First of all, it is proposed, while taking into account the most far-reaching interference of placing the child in foster care, that this is possible in the event of a serious threat to the child's well-being with an indication of the interpretation relating to the risk of his or her life or health. It is also proposed that the provision of the Article. 112 § 1 of the Family and Care Code has been supplemented by the forms of interference with parental authority provided for in Article. 109 § Paragraph 1 (1) (4), as this increases the need for the possibility that the court may exercise before it decides to place the child in foster care. So in the first place, the court should examine and apply measures of an earlier, milder nature. I would like to remind you that these are: the obligation of parents and the minor to a specific procedure, the determination of what activities the parents cannot do without the permission of the court, the exercise of parental authority by permanent supervision of the probation officer, the referral of the minor to an organisation or institution appointed for professional training. And only when these conditions are not, or rather are already fulfilled, can the placement be applied to the foster family. And because of poverty, this can only be applied if parents choose to do so. You can't do that against your parents' will. Such parental will is enshrined in the article. 100 § The second sentence of the family and caring code. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask for the support of this project and for it to be given a legislative run. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u181	Thank you, sir. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u182	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Any form of support for the safe childhood of the youngest citizens deserves our special interest. The current wording of the article. 112 § 1 of the Family and Care Code in conjunction with Article. 109 § In my opinion, point 2 (1) (4) sufficiently protects minors from the risk of separation from their families because of poverty. Logical and clear is the fact that art. 112 § 1 is replaced by the following: the child should be placed in foster care after all forms of assistance have been exhausted for the parents of the child, including financial assistance for the natural family. However, not all servants interpret this provision in this way. There are situations where courts rule differently. And although there are few such situations, each, even one case in which the family was separated because of poverty, is simply a scandal. I know that in such situations, the Ombudsman also intervenes. Therefore, the PO Club will continue to consistently support all activities in favour of the family and its integrity under applicable law. I would also like to draw the attention of honourable Members to another element. Families are more threatened by separation, sometimes too hasty, as helpless families in caring and household matters. According to the explanatory memorandum submitted by the applicants, this may apply, on the basis of data from the Central Statistical Office, approx. 227,000. families. The statement that the family is helpless in caring and caring matters is a very general statement that gives the possibility of individual interpretation by social workers, curators or judges. There have been numerous media reports of cases in which children were taken away from their children's children who loved their children by their mother or their father with a slight intellectual disability, because officials thought that they were dirty at home or that their parents could not do their homework with their children. We usually hear that family assistants, social workers and curators did everything they could but failed. But there was nothing wrong with the paperwork. I was helping to solve the problem that the court thought was inefficient, because she was too obese to take a job, and so she was taken to foster care with her two children. The services responsible for this didn't find a solution and they didn't find the right solution... I'm sorry, and I found a doctor and I asked him for help. You're a responsible mother today, and the children are with her. The legislation should also include the form of responsibility of social workers for the tasks assigned to them. Putting a child in foster care is a failure to act as part of a specific family's assistance by specific people or to receive remuneration for a specific action. Of course, there are cases set out in the relevant laws in which it is absolutely necessary to take a child from a natural family, but this should be in emergency situations where the child's health or life is at risk. In any other case, society and the state, through their institutions, should not allow this to happen. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will support the draft amendment to the Family and Care Code Act as proposed by the applicant, recognising the fact that the clarification of the rules will lead to the elimination of social pathology, for which [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is recognised that children are placed in custody against the will of their parents because of poverty. Minister! I bow to my forehead, and I'd just like two words with you. I've never heard of $2,000. Evil for children. I myself ran a foster family for many years, a family home of a child, and I must say that I have never received more than 800 PLN. Few of these 800 PLN had to pay for children's tuition, pay for the apartment or heating in this apartment. Don't talk about the sums that come from... they're vague. There's $1,000 at the moment. Wow, I'm up to date, living with these families, and of course I'm very happy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u183	Thank you, ma'am. Go ahead, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u184	...that it's changed. Now I'm hoping for more, because that's not enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u185	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, Kukiz Poselski Club15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz parliamentary club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club with regard to the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As a representative of the most liberal club in this parliament, I am very pleased that we have begun to discuss the great painful problem of taking children away from parents, especially because of poverty. However, I am afraid that the proposed change is not only insufficient but even harmful, because it creates, contrary to appearances, even greater possibilities for giving children to foster care than is currently the case. The proposed provision states in paragraph 2 that placing the child in foster care contrary to the wishes of the parents is not permitted solely because of poverty. And this is a very good situation, because it actually happened. I mean, let's face it, there have been a lot of cases where poverty was just a pretext, and in fact there have been other additional arguments, so that it wouldn't be an exclusive argument. But the truth is that a very large, wide gate was opened at the same time to pick up children for other reasons, because to the proposed text, the proposed amendment to the law is added to the proposed amendment. § 1, which says at the end, in the last sentence, that it can also be done because of a serious threat to the welfare of the child. So not as it was before, in the previous version, that at the time the child's welfare was threatened, but even in the situation of the child's well-being, on the one hand, the law rightly points out that poverty cannot be the only basis, the only reason for taking the child away, but at the same time opens up further, wider possibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, this can't happen. Taking children is one big scandal we unfortunately face in our country. This is a black spot on our country's honor. The family and caring code is an old law, it is a law written still in the times of a deep commune. Unfortunately, it was not changed in the right, free direction, but as a result of ideology, the new ideology of leftist cultural Marxism was still created additional opportunities for the state of children. At the moment, there are a lot of opportunities to take children away from them and hand them over to officials. Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally start a discussion on how to establish once and for all that children belong to parents and not to officials. Even the most inefficient parent is better than the official, so we need to go this way so that the cases of acceptable taking away children from parents are truly exceptional. Personally, I believe that such a condition can actually be either a case in which the child's life is directly at risk, or one in which there is a threat, a serious threat of this type, that it could result in an irreversible threat to his health, an irreversible and serious threat to his health. All other potential cases should be eliminated from our law. We must assume that the welfare of the child is decided by the parents. If we have such a written record, the question always arises, who will judge what is good for the child, whether the official or the parent. It's always got to be a parent in the first place. Children are to belong primarily to their parents. Only in extreme, really extreme cases can such institutions be used. So, ladies and gentlemen, as a club, we will support the transfer of this project to further work, and we will also propose appropriate changes in order to sharpen these criteria accordingly, so as to eliminate once and for all this pathology of nationalising our children under any pretext. This is the only right way. And remember, I am particularly addressing Members of the Law and Justice here, if you really are fighting for a strong family, one that wants to have children through which we have demographic growth, then you must leave this family alone, you must leave her income, her values and everyone who makes this family, especially the children. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, we will support the transfer of the law to further work and, at the same time, we will propose amendments to identify clearly and clearly exceptional only cases where children can be taken away from their parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! It's not the laws that solve problems, it's the people. It is not taking children away from parents that will solve the problem of poverty. A child needs a sense of security and love. If the family is unable to provide economic security, the task of self-government and social assistance is to help it. If social services can't help the family, that's it. It's not her fault, and the price can't be paid primarily by a child. Fortunately, this is very rare today. Can poverty be a reason for taking a child? No, not as a self-sustaining condition. You are proposing a new amendment to the family code, but it is imprecise and does not remove doubts as to when it would actually be possible to place the child in foster care. The rule deals with the term "poverty," which is too narrow a shot. Children are transferred and should be transferred to foster families from their parents, but only in cases where really different phenomena and problems have accumulated, especially when parents are addicted to alcohol, drugs, gambling, violence, sexual harassment, or health problems. Taking a child is a last resort when any countermeasures are not working. The role of social welfare must not be limited to intervention, removal of the problem, closure of the subject, but to active support of families with problems through, for example, assistants, their real, personal involvement in the performance of activities, not the execution of pure activities, but personal engagement. At this point - this shows the results of research and NIK checks - indeed where assistants supported the family, the cases when children were received are much less. At this point, it seems to me that it is a good thing to support initiatives that will increase the number of assistants, and it often happens that social workers go to these tasks when they have completely different tasks. The task of the State is to create financial and infrastructure opportunities for the functioning of assistants. In order to do this, it is necessary to create an information, social, educational, health and ecclesiastical network, through which information on disturbing phenomena and events involving children would be provided to social assistance centres. The solution proposed by you does not reduce the number of children's tragedies. It's such a populist slogan. We said: There will be no more children being taken away, but it does not really appear from this law that this is to some extent reducing. If the parole officer and the PCPR employee can't handle the family's help, then they'll be walking along the line of least resistance, because they're gonna do it out of fear so they don't lose their jobs, so no one's gonna accuse them of not doing anything. Yeah, then they're on that line. You can't let that happen. First of all, this is where dialogue is needed so that we can talk about how to solve for good the problem of parents who have a problem. Parents have a problem, and we have to protect the child from being raised in good conditions, in decent conditions, and above all in a sense of security. Modern will support the bill, but we make it clear that this is not the solution to the problem. We are looking forward to this solution, and if you do not know how to do it, we will be happy to help. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u189	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u190	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to pass a position towards the government draft law on amending the law Family and caring code, print No 164. Ladies and gentlemen! The revision of the Family and Care Code does not introduce any procedural changes concerning the placing of children in foster care. To the article. 112 § 1 only an calculation of the measures to be applied before the decision to take the child away from the parents was added. In accordance with the applicable rules referred to in the article, where the child's well-being is at risk, the court shall: (1) require parents and minors to perform specific proceedings, in particular to work with a family assistant, to carry out other forms of family work, to direct the minor to a day-care facility as defined in the family support and care rules or to direct the parents to an institution or specialist in family therapy, counseling or other appropriate assistance to the family, while indicating the manner in which the parental arrangements are to be carried out; (2) determine which activities may not be carried out without permission by the court or subject the parents to other limitations of guardianship; (3) subject the exercise of parental authority to permanent supervision by a probation officer; (4) refer the minor to an organisation or institution established for professional preparation or to another agency holding partial custody of children. Ladies and gentlemen, in the article. The following paragraph shall be added: 2, above all, it proposes to introduce a literal ban on placing a child in foster care only because of poverty, but only against the will of parents. If my parents choose to say that, there's no reason why they should take their children away from them. This provision is also precise, as the lawyer Jerzy Grycz explains: Poverty has never been a prerogative to transfer the child to foster care. The current recipe says that a child can be placed in foster care despite the fact that all forms of help to parents are not exhausted. If the child's well-being requires immediate foster care, in practice both conditions are reduced to exceptional situations and refer to the primary condition of the family and care code of the child's well-being. A serious threat to the child's well-being is most often associated with a threat to his health and life. The amendment, ladies and gentlemen, introduces a similar solution. The child may be placed in foster care because of the immediate need to provide the child with foster care due to the serious risk of the child's well-being, in particular the risk of his or her life or health. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment would enter into force 30 days from the date of the announcement in the Official Journal of the Laws. We, ladies and gentlemen, as parliamentarians together, need to consider the family code and caring for the welfare of Polish families. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the amendment of the Family and Care Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u191	Thank you, sir. Before we proceed with the questions, please take the floor of Mr. Mark Michalak's Child Rights Officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u192	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code in print No 164. The natural environment of development and the welfare of the child is the family. It should therefore be surrounded by the necessary protection and support. The application of State intervention measures to the parental authority leading to the taking of a child should take place as a last resort only after the use and use of other less severe measures for the child and family, or only if the child's well-being requires decisive and immediate action. I would like to stress that the protection of the right of the child to be raised in a natural family is one of the priorities of the Ombudsman. Putting a child in foster care is the country's furthest interference in the life of the family and causes a diametric change in the situation of the minor. Therefore, taking such a decision requires a detailed examination of all the circumstances of the case, taking into account the highest order of good and interests of the child. Replacement baking should be used as a means of temporary family assistance only if other activities have not given the desired effect or where, by reason of the circumstances, i.e. The child's health or life is at risk, there is a need for immediate removal of the child from the family. The principle of proportionality of foster care was introduced into the Family and Care Code by the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care, in the work on which the Ombudsman actively participated. The Act contains a whole catalogue of tools whose application is intended to reduce child deprivation in the natural environment of the biological family, while stressing the primacy of the right to be raised in the natural family. Family support is possible with the consent of the family and with the active participation of the family. It is primarily realized in the form of working with a family affected by dysfunction. The work of family assistant, support families and day support facilities is essential here. The obligation to support the family provided for by the Act rests with local authorities and government authorities, although some of the support measures indicated by the Law may also be applied by the court - Article. 109 § Point 2 (1) of the Family and Care Code. Applicable provision of the Article. 112 The family and caring code also allows the child to be placed in foster care in emergency situations. Since the introduction into the system of law of the provision of Article. The 112th family and caring code passed four years. This seems to be a sufficient period of time to analyse the judicial practice in this respect. The provisions of the Family and Care Code, constitutional rules and the Convention on the Rights of the Child result from the principle of subsidiarity, taking into account respect for the subjectivity and autonomy of family life, and the fact that the application of measures to interfere with parental authority resulting in the taking away of a child from parents may take place only after using other less vulnerable measures or when the child's well-being requires decisive and immediate action. Therefore, when introducing the provision of Article. 112 The family and caring code, in the wording of the law on family support and foster care, did not seem necessary to express this principle of expressis verbis in the provision that it would be sufficient to leave freedom to courts through an appropriate interpretation of the applicable rules. In a number of cases where the Ombudsman's Office has received a signal or made public by the media, the Ombudsman has initiated proceedings before the courts within the statutory remit and has also followed the proceedings already in progress. The analysis of these cases shows that some decisions to place a child outside the natural family, despite the wide range of activities that can be taken to safeguard the right of the child to be raised in the family, were premature. They thus point to the observed trend towards easier solutions before the more difficult ones. This results in the possibility of harming children and, in some cases, their families. Undoubtedly, the provision of effective help to the family involves certain difficulties, but the appropriate assistance provided by care institutions to the child should focus on improving the functioning of the family, which does not allow proper care for children. I would like to stress that the accuracy of the custody court's decision to take a child from the family and place him in foster care depends not only on the law, but also on the experience of the judge's life and professional life, and on the good relations he has with people and institutions working for families. The lack of confidence in the social partners and sometimes on the part of judges in the lack of psychological, pedagogical, social or medical expertise make decisions that do not always take into account the welfare of the child. Proposed amendment of the Article. 112 The family and caring code does not, in principle, change the existing legal status. It provides clarification and safeguards for the correct direction of interpretation of existing legal standards in judicial practice. The Ombudsman's assessment of the rights of the child also deserves the use by the projector of a condition of serious threat to the welfare of the child if it is necessary to provide the child with an immediate replacement care and to supplement the existing provision on the form of State interference with the parental authority provided for in Article. 109 § Section 2 (1) (4) of the Family and Care Code by expressing expressis verbis the need to exhaust the possibilities that the custody court should exercise before deciding to place the child in foster care. With regard to the proposed Article. 2, Article 112 of the Family and Care Code, I would like to point out that the cases conducted at the Office of the Ombudsman of Children's Rights show that the material problems of the family are one of the factors determining the need to separate the child from the biological parents. I can't confirm, however, that poverty is the only reason for the court's interference with parental authority. Also from information on the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit. The public authorities' actions in a situation of danger of taking children away from their parents in November 2015 show that the assistance provided by social assistance centres was often ineffective, resulting in the removal, in accordance with the decision of the court, of children from biological families and their placement in foster care. This condition was affected, among others. too late the identification of families, multi-problematicity and unwillingness of cooperation between dysfunctional families and centres, not being assisted by a family assistant and working with these families by social workers, who at the same time worked with dozens of other families with various problems, as well as too few daily support facilities and no support families. The reasons for placing children in foster care due to parental malpractice were most often due to alcohol dependence on one or both parents - 62% cases examined by the Supreme Audit Chamber, unemployment - 24%, health problems - 20%, poverty - 15% and family violence - 11% cases examined, and these negative phenomena accumulated. The Ombudsman, after examining the 33 proceedings identified by the NIC, as a result of which the children were placed in foster care, did not find irregularities in the conduct of these proceedings. In the case that the ombudsman examined the child's rights, the most common problems or factors that led to the need for a court to interfere with the family were: parents' alcohol disease - 52% , caring and educational negligence, including health and hygiene - 39%, violence, including physical, mental and sexual violence - 36%, difficult material situation of the family - 21% analyzed cases, lack of adequate parental supervision - 18% , parents' mental disorders - 12% and leaving the child under the care of another family member or hospital - 27%. It must be stressed that these problems and factors did not occur on their own. 88% There have been at least three of the problems examined jointly and 36% of the problems examined. The Ombudsman did not find that the main or exclusive circumstance resulting in the decision to place the child in foster care was the difficult material situation of the family. However, it is not possible to rule out cases of taking the child away from parents and putting in foster care because of family poverty. It is clear that, in situations where the child's life or health is at risk, placing in foster care is a means of safeguarding the child's well-being, but in the opinion of the Ombudsman, the financial situation of the family cannot be identified with a direct threat to the child's care and care situation. It should be pointed out with determination that parents' temporary parental failure due to financial failure and family poverty cannot result in a decision to take the child away from their parents. The prohibition to place in foster care only because of poverty is a guarantee that children will not be taken away from their parents because of the bad financial situation of the family, although I take this as a prevention. I also see this provision as an additional safeguard for the welfare of a child from poorer families, because it gives the State an obligation to help the family to remove this condition and improve its material status. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u193	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up again, you're welcome. If not, I'm closing the list. Question time: 1.5 minutes. I'm asking you to follow the time. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In today's amendment, the laws are identical to those in force. Both in the current law and in the amendment, it is not said anywhere that the authorities of the State are obliged to take children away from parents and, above all, these records are intended to protect Polish children from bad care and to treat them as the last condition given by the court. There's no doubt about that. Minister! Such short questions. What do you think is the number of children that have been taken away from their parents, and what is the number of children taken away because of the bad economic conditions in the family? Next question: What aid schemes does the Ministry provide to prevent pathologies among some Polish families? Do you intend to continue with the current solutions based on the programmes implemented by the ILOS and the PCPRs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you going to introduce new actions? What percentage of children are placed under the institutional care of foster care in the form of foster care, family home or care facilities and pre-adoption centres? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u195	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u196	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! The amendment of the Family and caring Code on leaving children in the natural environment and not taking them out because of poverty is a positive change. The cases of taking children from natural families and putting them in foster care should therefore be eliminated. It is therefore necessary to strengthen and expand work in the child's family environment so that such situations do not occur. Statistical data and observations show that a large number of children are placed in foster care for other reasons, e.g. addiction or helplessness, caring or educational. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: How can we further strengthen the environment and expand the catalogue of activities in this area? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u197	Thank you. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! I feel that way, and I say this as a practice also in the aid system, that the step is in the right direction. Congratulations, Minister. However, poverty is not a phenomenon that happens in a certain anonymity. We as neighbours, as those who accompany the misery of families falling into poverty, often expect the state to intervene effectively and support this family. I would therefore first like to ask for some neighborly and interhuman solidarity. The second point relates to the question, Minister, as far as we are able to effectively, complementaryly and accurately diagnostically and helpfully reach these families. I am thinking about social services, aid services, because they are too often involved primarily in certain efforts for statistical correctness and what they can prove in the documentation rather than in the effectiveness of family support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u199	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland is today a country which has an exceptional high rate of children raised outside the biological family. The results of a single examination of the reasons for placing children in foster care carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are alarming. It turns out that as many as 26% of 22 797 children, i.e. Almost 5700 were taken from families because of poverty. The official data of Donald Tusk's government reported that it was only 1% children received because of poverty. There are many examples of the inhuman senselessness of officials taking children away from their parents. Thousands of dramas of the youngest citizens and their parents. [[What's the data from?]] The very fact that parents are deprived of their children because of poverty is particularly inhuman. It demonstrates the inefficiency of a country that fails to fulfil its basic functions - subsidiarity and protection. No institution, no center can replace parental love. This family is the most appropriate educational environment for children. I therefore have a question, Minister: What about the children received so far in recent years? What's the chance for them to return to their families? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Ministry's data show that between 1 January 2015 and 30 June 2015 the number of cases in which poor economic and living conditions of families were the only cause of decisions to place a minor outside the biological family was 61. It may not be a high number, but almost every time it's a huge drama of children and parents. In this connection, I ask the Minister: What new regulations are being prepared by the family autonomy team, in order to help families more broadly, more thoroughly and more effectively to help families who are considered helpless in caring and household matters? Are you sure these regulations will be sufficient? And I don't really understand what the minister meant when he said that children were taken preventively without the court's permission. What was the reason for this, and how did the Minister have such knowledge? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u203	Thank you. And Mrs Małgorzata Rozpondek, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Piotr Uściński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u204	Dear Marshal, Minister! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Today, today's revision of the Family and Care Code Act is a small change in the amount of legislation being amended, but a major change in the approach to the system, to the family. Children will no longer be taken from their families - against the will of their parents and against the will of their children - because of poverty. In this connection, I wanted to ask the Minister: Are there any further amendments to the Code? Are there any plans for further changes to the system as a whole, including other laws, including the Family Violence Act? I think there's a lot to fix in the whole system. Today's change is the first big step, but I postulate and ask if there are any further changes planned, because at the moment, as a long-term self-governmentman, also responsible as an elder for supervising the implementation of these laws, I must say that it is often wrong in this respect that the state interferes too much in family life, it interferes too much not only in this law, but in various other laws. I think it's time for us to make these changes so that we can change the whole system in this respect. Question: "When and will this happen?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u205	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Minister, thank you so much for these changes. I think they've been very expected for a long time. If the families could, they'd probably thank you personally. You have confirmed here in your statement that comprehensive legislative changes will be made to support economically inefficient families. I have actually a request, the question that in the future families threatened with legal proceedings from the vending machine should receive legal aid, because very often these families are completely helpless not only economically, but also have problems recognising, for example, the legal environment as they move in existing legislation. So that I have such a request that in the future, when you work and you want to change the comprehensively existing laws on this subject, you should take into account this request: legal assistance for families at risk of judicial proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u207	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Punishment of children for their parents' poverty is morally unacceptable, yet it is in practice. I'm glad the government noticed this problem. The institution can better satisfy the material needs of the child, but the institution does not love the child. Minister! For many years, many children were included in the Social Pathology Register entitled to the benefit. With the demographic collapse affecting our country, as well as the high correlation between multiple children and low income per person in the family, and at the same time with all constitutional protective records against the family, I ask the question: Has it been ensured that there is no conflict with other legal acts? If they are, please remove them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! High Izbo! I only have one question, short. Tell me, with the help of the families, what we can do to ensure that all institutions that take care of foster families, family homes and natural families are responsible for what they do. After all, the fact that we sometimes pick up a child is an irresponsible person who works at the ILOS, at the ILOR or anywhere else. What can we do in this direction? That's where you said your neighbors were. Neighbors sometimes don't want to just interfere with these families. My question, however, is: How many families are there at this point where children have been taken from poverty? It's very interesting because I don't know that number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u211	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Spokesman! Mr. Spokesman, thank you for a very accurate diagnosis of the procedated changes in the bill. I want to say that for many years I have been a social worker, and for many years I have also been a social parole officer in a family court. Is this solution needed? I agree with your spokesperson that this is a preventive solution, because for many years working both as a social worker and as head of the social services centre, I have not imagined or imagined putting the child in foster care because of poverty to take the child out of the family. This is not only a matter of professional experience, of professional practice, but - I think - also of ordinary empathy, of ordinary sensitivity. I'd get help sooner than I'd put a baby in foster care for those reasons. The environment I am talking about, both the social workers' environment and the professional guardians' environment, is also a very sensitive environment in my opinion. That is why I would like to ask: Minister, are you not afraid that such a solution may, however, have the opposite effect, i.e. fear of the media and a late reaction to improper care in the family? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u213	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u214	Thank you very much. Minister! My question will be about what I have already mentioned in my speech, namely the definition of the meaning of the concept of a child's welfare threat. As I said earlier, the earlier condition in the form of a child's welfare was replaced in this proposal by a rubber rule in the form of a threat to the child's well-being. I have a question: How do you understand this term? What's underneath it? Is that, for example. A situation where the baby doesn't get dinner because he's going to be punished, will he go to school with his homework, or will his mother yell at the baby, or, God forbid, will he spank him? Are such situations exhausting this kind of condition? I would like to point out this in the context of the fact that the provision has also changed in such a way that there has been a previous mention of the exhaustion of all resources, and at the moment, only certain measures are actually being referred to. Therefore, there are possible situations where, indeed, under any pretext, like the totalitarian practices of the Scandinavian countries, children will be taken for example for this proverbial spanking. That's why I'd like to know how you understand this rubber recipe. Is he really going to be interpreted so widely, is he being interpreted so widely, or are we going to try to narrow it down in the sense? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! Membership! I have a question that may indicate that the very concept of poverty is not enough, because please note: it is only individual. These are genuine incidents when parents and children are deprived of ties when the state interferes. But there is a second point, namely that the same concept does not solve the issue, because let's see: we have poverty, and how to refer to an article in one of the newspapers that says that many mothers and fathers live in parcels and there is a problem with premises for these families. And now the question is, is that going to be the reason you can pick up the baby? Because your parents are unemployed? Because the municipality doesn't secure a place for such families? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u217	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u218	Dear Marshal, Mr. Spokesman! High Seym! Answering questions that have arisen in the discussion, but above all the question that comes up every now and then, namely, are we not defining too widely the risk of a child again, which could cause more and not less of such cases, I would like to say that no, that is not true, Mr President, because in the current wording of the article. 109 § 1 The family and caring code uses the term "if the child's well-being is threatened" and we introduce a new concept in the article. 112, saying, just narrowing down the possibility of taking a child into serious danger of life. That is why, in our view, the threat that you have mentioned is not true. We, once again, are narrowing down the possibility of courts to take children, and that is without doubt. Secondly, the High Sejm, in Mrs Krzywonos' speech, raised doubts as to the information about the funds allocated to the foster care or to the foster family. High Sejm, I would like to invoke this paragraph. Art. 85 of the Act on Family Support and foster care says as regards the salary of the foster family and the host family home of the child: The foster family and the host family home of the child shall be entitled to a salary of not less than PLN 2000 per month, and then: 2. The foster family serving as a family ambulance shall be entitled to a salary of not less than PLN 2600 per month. There are other standard benefits, depending on whether or not it is part of a biological family. In addition, there was a thread here about how social assistance is working badly or could it work better. The High Sejm, of course, I agree that social assistance must even work better, but that is not the subject of this discussion today, and this is not an element for which our ministry is an initiating party. On the other hand, there is no doubt that we need to work here as a parliament, as a government, to ensure that social assistance generally works better so that the social assistance function enshrined in the laws is effectively fulfilled. I have no doubt about that, High Sejm. In addition, there were doubts that the data we are presenting regarding the taking of children only and only because of poverty - this appeared in particular in the Ombudsman's speech - is not true. No, I mean, we turned in... Since 2015, the courts in the forms have one more table where they can mark information about taking children only because of poverty, and there are 61 such indications, Mr. Spokesman, but we have this knowledge, even here, if you would like to know in detail, there is no doubt. On the other hand, the High Sejm, we are talking about 61 cases only and only in the first half of 2015, there have been no detailed statistics before, but this is 61 cases where the child was taken only because of poverty. The problem is that thousands of children are picked up for reasons where poverty is an essential element of justification for taking the child away - precisely because of poverty. At the same time, in the Ombudsman's speech, there was a thread of too hasty a court decision. We agree, also as the Ministry of Justice. I mean, our analysis shows that the courts are very often too hasty to make decisions. Even, the High Sejm, a study by the Justice Institute on these cases shows that as many as 50 and 55% of cases did not listen to a social worker, did not interrogate him, did not listen to him, did not ask questions to a social worker who was the party initiating the child's prevention. In view of the above, there can be serious doubts as to whether due diligence has been exercised to complete this procedure. There was also a question from a Member of the Civic Platform, how do I know that an official takes a child without a court decision. High Seym, that's how the system works, that's how the law passed by the Civic Platform works, i.e. Officials are just taking the baby away, and then it's the court's decision. And there's a thread, and there's a question of how else you can help your family. Tall Seym, that's the subject. The river could be discussed here for hours, but the most important elements of assistance are economic, educational and psychological aid. The local government has a wide range of opportunities for assistance, but above all - what is our area of competence, our responsibilities - we want to clearly and precisely define the competences of social assistance, where we want to put a subsidiary rather than sovereign role at the head of the hierarchy. In addition, there have been repeated discussions here, in questions on the fact that the rules we are proposing are insufficient in terms of the scale of the problem. High Sejm, I have already admitted this in my opening statement, we thus close the interpretation space to the courts and close one problem, i.e. We want to address the problem of too broad a definition of violence, which allows children to be overinterpreted and taken away for various reasons, in a separate bill that we are about to present to the High House, which gives us the opportunity to take children for various reasons, it would seem absurd, which you also mentioned in your questions. But that's a separate issue. Today we close the problem of taking children for poverty, we close the interpretation space for the courts. There was also a question about the number of children taken - I already said that, 61 in mid-2015. Generally, these are tens of thousands of children. Last year it was probably about 15,000. The children we received, but as far as the detailed knowledge is concerned, as I mentioned, we've only been studying this recently. And that's it. Your Sejm, at the end of the day, I would like to say that the solutions we are presenting today to the High House are similar to those that exist in our western neighbour, i.e. in Germany. And there, according to our analysis and our research, we do not have such problems in terms of scale, but above all in terms of taking children only because of poverty. We're finally trying to put an end to this problem. I also thank you very much for the fact that all parliamentary clubs in principle agree with the intention of the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u219	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, contained in print No 164, to the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law on the establishment of 17 October on the Day of Direct Selling (print No 28). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Michał Chodkowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u220	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the second time I've had the honour of presenting this project in the Parliament hall. It was presented for the first time in the previous term of the Sejm. On the other hand, based on the experience of the previous discussion, I think that first of all we need to explain a little bit closer what direct sales is, that it is not just a simple distribution channel, a way to sell goods and services. For many micro-entrepreneurs it is also a way to perform a professional job in life, to combine professional life with family life, a way of life, in short. Direct sales is a system of distribution of goods and services, which consists in direct contact between the trader and the consumer. Do not confuse this form of sales with telemarketing or telesales. This is not an unwanted telephone contact, that is sales, which consists in providing the consumer also with support for what product to choose, what product to best use, what are the properties of this product, advantages, and support for after-sales service. The relationship between the consumer and the trader who sells the product to him often occurs within the organized sales structures that have been operating in Poland for many years, and there is a need not only to disseminate the knowledge of consumer rights that consumers have in this regard, but also to disseminate knowledge about the sales systems themselves. Therefore, the intention of the creators of this project is not to establish the day of the seller, consultant or consumer, but the intention is to establish the Day of Direct Selling, direct sales which corresponds, if we look at the statutory regulations, the definition of sales outside the premises of the company. Off-premises sales are characterised by the fact that the transaction takes place on the street, at the consumer's home, it does not take place at the premises. What, on the other hand, is important? In direct sales, the main focus of the seller, who acts ethically, puts on maintaining relations with the consumer, building his image and on the most reliable and ethical relationship with the consumer, economic relationship of course. In direct sales there are also values that allow us to realise how important it may be for the Polish economy, for the Polish market. Courtesy of the Polish Direct Sales Association today I can say that in 2014, because for 2015 results are not available, the value of transactions made in direct sales in Poland is around 36 million transactions, and the cash value - 2886 million PLN. Of course, I'm talking about the total value of all these transactions. For at least a few years in Poland in direct sales systems, nearly 900 thousand have been involved in the distribution systems of goods and services. persons. These are both micro-entrepreneurs, so-called. self-employed people and consumers, and these people really benefit from these systems. They not only make it possible to acquire quality products and services, to obtain support for the use of these products, but also offer a chance of some flexibility in employment. This is extremely important for micro-entrepreneurs because, as part of self-employment, they can themselves decide how they want to present their offer to consumers when they want to do so, and this flexibility is very important for those who can in any way be more difficult to access the labour market. As far as statistics are concerned, for example, it can be pointed out that 87% Sellers in this system are women. In the case of the 50+ age group, close to 30% of those who are among Polish sellers belong to this age group. And one more important thing: more than 30% of sellers who start their business in this system are those who have not been professional before. All of this shows how important it is for the sales form and the branch of the economy or even the industry for the Polish economy, for the Polish labour market. This method of sale enables not only professional activation, not only access to quality products, but also professional self-realization for many people who have not found this possibility in traditional employment. It is therefore worth promoting this form of sales. On the other hand, it may seem at least interesting, why nearly 120 thousand. people supported this project - 120 thousand. I would like to thank the people I am grateful for submitting my signatures to. These people are not only consultants, they are not only consumers who buy in this distribution channel, but also those who understand the system and appreciate its advantages. In order to explain why the authors of this project want to give a statutory rank to an event which has been organized in Poland for several years with the support of the Polish Direct Sales Association, one has to say that knowledge about direct sales in Poland is not sufficient. We are talking here not only about the knowledge of consumer rights, which is sometimes harmed by unethical entrepreneurs, but non-ethical entrepreneurs operate in every sector of the economy, and it is not possible through the prism of such unethical practices to assess the whole industry, the industry as a whole, and the intention of the creators of this project is to bring about a situation in which this knowledge will have a solid basis for spreading it to society, a situation in which the group of people concerned will disseminate it, in order to enable consumers, entrepreneurs, market participants to understand what this form of sales is about better protecting and implementing their rights, because our assessment is not just about fixing the effects of non-ethical entrepreneurs who in some way harm the consumer, but also about how to educate the consumer. This will probably reduce the cost of support to such consumers, the cost of legal aid which must therefore be granted. The establishment of a Direct Selling Day would certainly contribute to the creation of an appropriate framework, to giving a certain rank to such an event. I stress once again: Direct Sales Day, not the seller, not the consultant. This initiative does not diminish the role of any other profession or any professional group that operates in Poland. This is an initiative that aims to promote certain values, ethical values in sales and which aims to ensure that there are appropriate conditions for this. If we would like to explain why on October 17th, we must refer to these events that I have already mentioned. On the other hand, focusing on what this law can actually give the industry itself and all Poles apart from the dissemination of knowledge, it can actually also refer to the values of professional activation that I mentioned, because it can not only attract people who are interested in starting their own business, but also as a unique initiative on a European and global scale can attract certain entrepreneurs to invest in Poland, to invest in this industry, which will create new jobs. And that is a question that also needs to be underlined. The law itself consists of only two articles. This is not a complicated act. What has been written in the bill and in its justification illustrates the sincere intentions of the creators of the project. It does not entail hidden risks, there are no complicated provisions on which interpretation doubts would arise, and it is certainly not subject to regulation of European Union law, nor will it have negative consequences for the state budget. For this reason, I ask the High House to support this project, to support this citizens' initiative, which, as I said, is more than 115 thousand. people, almost 120 thousand. the people supported it. In my opinion, such an initiative cannot be left indifferent. It is all the more worthy of support because it illustrates how many people are interested in this industry, its development and dissemination of knowledge in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u221	I would like to thank the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u222	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' draft law establishing the 17th of October on the Day of Direct Sales. The bill meets the expectations of a very large group of citizens employed in the direct sales sector in Poland. This includes both small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed entrepreneurs. The establishment of the Day of Direct Selling on 17 October aims to create friendly conditions for the organisation of social and economic events, conferences, seminars of various types on the dissemination of problems related to the industry and presentation of its activities on the Polish market. Polish citizens, and in particular Polish Direct Sales Association, took the initiative to recognise on 17 October a specific celebration of the direct sales industry. The association initiative is an expression of concern for creating a friendly environment for raising public awareness on aspects related to direct sales. The law and justice stand in the position that it is necessary to respect the citizens' initiative, which has been signed by a number of Polish citizens related to direct sales. We therefore propose to refer this draft law to further work in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee of the draft law establishing on 17 October on the Day of Direct Sales! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the project submitted. Ladies and gentlemen! Direct Sales Day has been successfully organized regularly for 4 years, i.e. since 2012, by the Polish Direct Sales Association, which is also the main initiator of this citizens' initiative. These celebrations take the form of a thematic conference involving state institutions, implementing an information policy on state support for direct retail sales. The Office for Competition and Consumer Protection plays a particular role in the annual event, which must inform citizens of their rights and protect against the dangers of unfair commercial practices. The applicant justifies the introduction of a legislative initiative by the fact that the organisation of conferences and meetings of the Direct Sales Day is a response to the needs of sellers and companies active in the direct sales industry. So let's take a look at this industry. Direct sales, as defined, are to offer goods and services directly to consumers, on an individual basis, usually at a customer's home, workplace or other place, other than fixed retail outlets. I'm sure we've all come across this form of sales. Direct selling is a flexible way of earning. In Poland about 85% Sellers treat her as extracurricular activities. Almost 90% direct-selling workers are women who are more likely than men to agree to work with housekeeping and childcare. Women are undoubtedly the driving force of the entire industry, whose main asset is moving working time. In 2014, 910 thousand cooperated with direct sales companies. persons. And now in terms of products, among direct sales companies operating on the Polish market there are both small and large companies, with annual turnover measured in hundreds of millions of PLN. Some large companies are international corporations, e.g. Amway, Zepter, Oriflame, Herbalife, Mary Kay, Avon and many others. For many years, cosmetics have been leading in direct sales, although their sales are gradually decreasing from year to year. And so in 2014 it was 67% , on subsequent positions there were dietary supplements - 10% , household appliances - 8% , clothing and accessories - 6%, services - 5% and economic chemistry - 1%. After this brief look at the industry, it is time to look at the needs of customers using direct industry services. The establishment of a Direct Sales Day through the adoption of a law by the Polish Parliament obliges applicants to see this trade holiday in a broad perspective, where in particular the social educational aspect should be taken into account and awareness-raising of customers' citizens about both benefits and potential risks, such as unfair practices of manipulation and inducing the purchase of low quality products at a high price. We must remember that older people, unaware and misled by companies offering various products, are most often the prey of dishonest direct sellers. When we are concerned about the welfare and financial security of Polish citizens, the Day of Direct Selling could accept the name of the day of the informed customer of direct sellers. Then it could be considered that this day will contribute to an increase in knowledge about the mechanisms of direct sales in Poland. We cannot talk about the nationwide celebrations of Direct Sales Day without clear socio-information action, without real, reliable information to citizens about threats and legal tools protecting their domestic budgets from companies that often count on gullibility. But it's a $100,000 meeting. signatures under the citizens' bill always deserve praise for the established Legislative Initiative Committee. We appreciate it and congratulate you. In this case, it should also be pointed out that the law has a strong link with the economic sector, with direct sellers who wish to give greater splendour to the celebrations by establishing their holiday. The explanatory memorandum also states that the entry into force of the proposed law does not have any financial implications for the state budget. I would like to point out that the information activity itself on the risks arising from the use of direct sales gives rise to annual expenditure on the part of the State. However, assuming that we will receive positive declarations from representatives of the citizens' committee of the legislative initiative that the establishment by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 17 October is linked to the obligation of the applicants of this law to adopt as a priority information, education of the public as regards rights and risks related to direct sales and covering the costs of the ceremony from their own resources, as well as the preparation of legal acts enabling the sale of products [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the farm, the Civic Platform Club asks the High Sejm to pass this project on to the economic committee so that, after obtaining such declarations and after discussion, it can support this legislative initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u225	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15, I have the honour to present our position on the citizens' draft law on the establishment of 17 October on the Day of Direct Sales. This is primarily a citizens' project, and Kukiz15 pays close attention to initiatives taken by citizens and their needs, in particular when it comes to one of the most rapidly developing professions in Poland. Currently, it is estimated that there are about 900 thousand in Poland. direct sales consultants. It is an important and large group of employees. Due to the high flexibility of employment, direct sales are the first chance for many to enter the labour market and gain experience, so it is important to stop ignoring this group. It is important to ensure public awareness of direct sales activities and to raise awareness of our rights as consumers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of 17 October on Direct Selling Day will give a positive signal and create a friendly environment to draw attention to the actions, problems and challenges of this part of the labour market. It will send a positive signal to citizens that it is worth addressing Parliament with your needs. It will give a positive signal that direct sales concern each of us. Citizens want to sell us on October 17 as Direct Sales Day and the Kukiz Club15 buys it. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, yesterday we had a meeting, a conference with representatives of agricultural associations. I received this leaflet and wanted to quote one comment: It is remarkable that the highest quality food has the legal status of illegal food, while food full of chemistry and GMOs is legal. We must say: quite such practices and let us buy directly from farmers, from our Polish farmers. Every day in my family, we buy such farm crops, vegetables on manure. When you buy in supermarkets, it's 3, 4 days and it blackens out, mold pops up. So that I recommend to all Poles: let us eat what is ours, what is healthy, because our goods are the best in the world, so they have such a reputation and so they are wanted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the applicants! The citizens' bill on the establishment of the 17th of October on the Day of Direct Sales deserves attention and a favourable view of the House for several reasons, but above all because in this industry, although it is difficult to realise it, a very large number of people find employment, which is actually excluded for other reasons. We are talking about employment, opportunities to earn in economically difficult times. In particular, the problems relate to a number of groups: older people, people just entering the labour market and women who, mostly at a certain stage of their lives, are forced to make an enormous effort to meet both family and professional expectations at the same time. Who is the majority of the self-employed in direct sales? 87% These are women, close to 1/4 are people over the age of 50, over 1/3 are people who have previously been inactive in the labour market, so they are really people that we should activate so that we do not have problems in the pension system, over 1/3 are people who were previously excluded from the labour market. All those other people who find employment in direct sales are those who, in fact, without being able to earn in such a form are actually deprived of their means of living. I was wondering if we have another professional activation program in Poland, which can boast similar results, and unfortunately I did not find such a program. On the other hand, I understand the criticism of public opinion, which is very much publicised by the media, concerning non-ethical practices related to direct sales. We have all heard about using older people, selling products far above their real value. Modern programming is geared towards supporting entrepreneurship, but it must not close its eyes to these real problems, it must not give consent. With this greater satisfaction we accept the project shown by the applicants' willingness to further organise this industry, this environment. Direct sales are linked to the far-reaching protection of consumer rights. Most of us will agree that the source of the problem is their ignorance. The recipe is a dead provision when the entitled does not know how to use it. The applicants do not ignore the silence of this issue, on the contrary, point out in a convincing way that this cost-effective initiative will make it easier both to raise consumer awareness and to stigmatise those who break ethical standards whose actions have a negative impact on the image of the whole sector. Direct sales are an opportunity for a non-investment-free start in entrepreneurship and a practical business school. Direct contact with the customer, taking responsibility for your own destiny, the relationship between income and the initiative shown, actively searching for and using the opportunity to earn a living depending on your own needs and opportunities, this is the salt of micro entrepreneurship. At the same time, a comparison of the figures describing the share of direct sales on the Polish market and in the European Union countries leads to the conclusion that the industry still enjoys a high growth potential. The state's official recognition of 17 October on Direct Sales Day will not solve any problems in itself, but will help to promote knowledge and, over time, increase consumer safety and awareness, and will positively affect a sector whose turnover in 2014 was nearing PLN 3 billion. It will also be an expression of the state's observation of the activity, which it carries out in Poland over 900 thousand. people, many of whom are in high risk groups in terms of opportunities in the labour market and who do not wait passively for help, only organise themselves, taking their own fate into their own hands. In this way, they not only actively shape their future, but also relieve public finances and are living proof that entrepreneurship does not have to be limited to groups with which it is stereotypically associated. Therefore, in the absence of budgetary and legal doubt, Modern will support this project and vote in favour of it at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u229	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u230	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My voice will be a voice spoken on behalf of the Polish People's Party regarding this project. This project is a rather modest project, because it only talks about the day of October 17 to establish Direct Sales Day, but we know that it will concern this model of sales to popularize. For example, because this project has been supported by such a large number of signatures of Poles, citizens, those who see an opportunity to sell directly to themselves as potential employees serving this system, but probably also those who are interested in making purchases under this formula have signed up to support it and analyse it at further stages of legislative work. Once again, I'm going to go back to the fact that not only the project itself, but also the system. This will allow the meetings of individual problem committees to analyse the advantages and disadvantages of this programme, this system of direct sales, because they are such. I'll start with the pros. The advantages are that actually a large group of people in this project, in this system participates on the side of the developers and serving this project. These are the people who have found their place in the labour market thanks to this, also those who start looking for this place and their trade experiences start from reaching directly to the customer, to the consumer, to the one who wants to buy this product, but also to become familiar with the functioning of this sales system. It's kind of like the first trade entry in those people who want to do it. This project also has - I am talking about direct sales, not about the draft law - the advantage that it offers an opportunity to circumvent certain elements in the supply chain between the manufacturer and the final customer because wholesale intermediaries can be eliminated, then retail trade and in the end value added can be obtained in the form of a lower price of this product or a higher price offered to the one that this product is selling, so that someone else, not necessarily valuable, who should participate at this stage, will be eliminated. But this direct sales system project can also carry some flaws. And it is good that this discussion, which will take place in committees, will be able to eliminate these possible reservations. Well, you -- I think about the association that this project is proposing -- you're going to have to answer questions that are going to arise, which are different from the so-called ones. TV marketing, to which there are many reservations, many comments. Many people, especially in the elderly, used to the normal formula of buying products is stretching and later has problems what to do with this product, on which big money has been spent, and it is not really known whether it works, whether it is effective and how to get rid of it or how to recover money. It is also worth knowing that many of us associate direct sales with the fact that it is a small producer, very often a farmer, goes with his product on the estate, to the block, to the shop and this product sells, as if bypassing the corporate activities of big operators, operators on the market. This is not quite true, of course, and you will also have to dispel these doubts, because these companies that are directly selling, these are corporate companies, these are international companies which are very often using sophisticated marketing methods to reach the consumer, to convince him of their products - I do not want to say: often cheating him, but even misleading him. So you will also have to take this into account when answering the questions of Members in the various committees. Finally, and this is precisely the advantage of direct sales, such direct contact of the seller, the one he offers - very often the manufacturer, because we are also thinking about small, small enterprises here, we are also talking about farmers - with the recipient gives the opportunity to talk directly, show the advantages of this product on the basis of even touching, learning how it works, how this product works, because we are also talking about technical devices. This is the advantage of direct sales. But I would also like to say that the direct sales system should allow Poles, the final recipients, to avoid what we often find in traditional trade today, unfortunately, in networks of super- and hypermarkets or neighborhood shops, namely the anonymity of the product. Very often the product that is offered today is sold under the brands and actually whoever buys this product does not even know where it was produced, in which country, because these small letters on the label or on the final product do not read. So it is also possible to eliminate this phenomenon by means of direct sales. I would also like to say that for these few reasons, but also with a few doubts, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party generally supports this project. Doubts that [[♪ The bell ♪]] they appear in our heads in the course of our reasoning, we would like to dispel by asking questions at committee meetings which will work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. There are currently four people on the list of Members to be asked. We therefore begin with Mrs Dorota Niedziela from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. By the end of the questioning process, you can also sign up for a list of questions that ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the applicants! My question is this: If the project goes to committee, do you predict that... Because the problem with direct sales is that there is informational chaos about what is direct sales. You can call direct sales, and it's everywhere diagnosed and described, direct sales of products in contact with the seller, but direct sales is a huge, big topic about our food, it's called. sale directly from the holding. I would like to remind you that during that term we have worked on this for almost four years, we have managed to amend the Tax Act, so that the rules provide for the possibility of processing agricultural products and selling them directly from the farm to the so-called. direct sales. And my question is, are you predicting, and you are going to lobby for it, the drafting of a law on direct sales, which will define very precisely what direct sales departments we have and what they relate to? Because direct sales are also the sale of raw materials from the farm, and this is quite different than selling products when the seller drives from house to house, shows this product, presents and sells. And I think that such a law that describes very closely the fields and types of direct sales in question would be a thing that [[♪ The bell ♪]] would eliminate many abuses and misunderstandings in terms of a clear definition of direct sales in the various sectors of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u233	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u234	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Words of appreciation for the citizens' initiative, because every citizens' initiative draws attention to the problem. It is good that you pay attention to this problem, but the question is whether the establishment of a direct sales day will solve this problem. I would therefore like to ask whether the Direct Sales Association, which is the main initiator of this civic project, envisages proposing amendments to the law that would be helpful in selling. And second question. The project was submitted on 19 November, and therefore more than a month after the date planned as Direct Sales Day, and it is proposed that this law should enter into force 14 days after its adoption. Why 14 days, if the day of sale is in almost 11 months, 10 months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u235	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mr John Duda from the Law and Justice Club to ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Any way to promote direct sales is worthy of support, but there is also a need for friendly rules to make this form of sales more common, because when it is more widespread, it will be safer - there will be more competition. But it is also necessary to separate these direct sales and what was mentioned here, namely direct sales of agricultural products. It's like two different things, at least for me. There is a law on direct sales of agricultural products and it functions completely differently than the direct sale we are talking about. However, my question concerns something completely different, and it is not a malicious question at all. October 17th is the International Day for Combating Poverty. And here's the question of whether it's intentional - as I say, it's not malicious - action to establish on October 17th the Day of Direct Selling, whether it's a coincidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u237	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u238	Dear Marshal! Many comments raise the issue of direct sales of all products, different products and sales of agricultural products or food. And this is the question I wanted to ask the representatives of the legislative initiative. Namely, how do you see in your association those - and how are they represented - who deal with direct sales of agricultural products, food? What's their share of the sale? Because your representative gave the results of statistics saying how many people are employed in this system, what is the value of turnover, what agriculture has so far looked like in this system of direct sales. And once again, I would like to stress what we did in the previous term - we enabled farmers to sell their own products in this mode, in this system, very similar, very similar, possibly even identical, by shortening the supply chain and reaching the final recipient, thus increasing the incomes of these farms which decide to do so. In short, what is the share of agriculture in the direct sales system - today's situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u239	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler from the Civic Platform Club. And this is the last Member on the list to join the question. That's why I'm closing this list. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that if this is a citizens' project, and it is, occupied by a great deal of signatures or a huge amount of signatures, then almost everyone, as we are here in this Chamber, is in favour of this citizens' project because it offers a great deal of jobs. This is a much-needed project, a project that raises a lot of confidence in this form of sales, especially when it concerns products in the environment... in small environments, as it is now complete, more and more emerging lack of trust in sold products, especially agricultural ones. Everyone wants to eat the wrong product from large supermarkets, everyone wants to eat an individual, healthy product, which will give him both the pleasure of eating and the earnings when it comes to running such sales. I must say that in the environment that I come from, it is very widely accepted. I think that the legislator, the projector should go further, and I think we will definitely go in that direction. We should aim to ensure that certain types of raw products are unprocessed subject to further processing on holdings or at the premises where they are produced, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the measure that brings them closer to or similar to regional products, not as they are commonly acquired. So it's a very accepted project. I believe that we should stimulate and build legislation to improve and improve it even more than it has been so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u241	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask the representative of the citizens' initiative committee of Mr Michał Chodkowski to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u242	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for these words, in most of our appreciation, because this is how we perceive them, as words that appreciate this industry, appreciate the contribution of people who work in this industry, and appreciate the efforts of the creators of this project and those who supported it. So that I warmly thank both project developers and those who supported the project. With regard to the declarations made by the creators of this project, we must of course bear in mind that this is a project that has been organised by people active in direct sales, not strictly Polish Direct Sales Association itself, but with its active support. In addition, they are people who are involved both in the work of the Polish Direct Sales Association and in the work of the Legislative Initiative Committee. Of course, both in the past, now and in the future, the intention of the Polish Direct Sales Association is to promote knowledge about direct sales, promoting ethical standards in business, pro-consumer attitudes. And I don't think any of these people are gonna give up on it. On the other hand, the issue of organizing these annual events, which we mentioned here, is an event which aims, among other things, to organize. dissemination of knowledge, depending on the year concerned, or about entrepreneurship among certain professional groups, which, as mentioned here, are often groups with more difficult access to the labour market, or about pro-consumer attitudes, or about consumer rights protection. Hence, these events in this shape will continue to be organized, as far as the Polish Direct Sales Association is concerned, all these people will have the strength and resources to do so. And I don't think anyone here has ever tried to avoid it, because it's the common interest of the whole industry. And if I were to answer specific questions, perhaps in order to ask them. The first question concerned the issue of terminology chaos, conceptual chaos and chaos in interpreting what direct sales are. As far as the legal framework is concerned, I think that by direct sales we can understand the sales already defined in the regulations outside the company's premises. On the other hand, giving a rigid legal framework for direct sales, closing the form of direct sales activity in a particular catalogue, may prove very difficult. These systems are constantly evolving. That's what they're called. SLM, single level marketing, MLM, multi level marketing, and various combinations, mixes of these systems. Finally, they are also forms where someone sells directly their own product under their own labor, within their own forces and resources, and sells it directly, bypassing the distribution chain. If we refer here to the sale of agricultural products, in fact these data, which I mentioned in the first part of my speech, are not data which include such sales, because in the Polish Direct Sales Association there is no such members as farmers selling such products. These legal frameworks, which have been given direct sales of agricultural products, shape this form of sale as something else specific, and I do not see any obstacle for me to assess together all these forms of distribution, including the sale of agricultural products, as forms of sales that are worth promoting. And I believe that both forms, both direct sales of agricultural products and direct sales, which we are talking about here, are worthwhile and should be promoted. As for the statistics on which the question also arose, if I am not confused by memory now, it follows from them that food and beverages are also in this value built by sales, in the number of transactions and in the amount value, but it was a small percentage fraction, I am not now able to quote it exactly, but it is certainly not the dominant part of this turnover, the dominant number of transactions that are contained in this distribution channel. With regard to why 14 days - 14 days we proposed, with the aim of not referring to the date of the proposed day, we were also unable to calculate that when it came to the moment when we could file this bill. This is due to a simple reason, the process of the citizens' initiative is a process which has a legal framework, a legislative framework decides when a committee can register when the first 1 000 will be gathered. signatures when this is reported and when the project can be submitted after the collection of 100,000. signatures. Here we were bound by deadlines and the date of submission of this project only results from when we managed to collect specific signatures - first 15 signatures setting up the committee and then subsequent signatures, which resulted from an open time allocation for the collection of 100,000. And here there is no hidden reference to the date on which it was to be organised, and I am not able to explain it in any other way than the legislative process, the process of the citizens' legislative initiative in principle. If I were to answer the question about the International Day for Combating Poverty, there is no connection here to this day. It is an initiative which, in principle, was intended to refer to a day that is already being organized, and this day, which occurred mostly on 17 October in recent years, has not been linked to the day of the fight against poverty. Nevertheless, there are many companies in the direct sales sector that actively support the fight against poverty, actively support the poorest layers of society, engage in charitable campaigns, in support campaigns for poor people. Here direct sales and companies operating in this industry do not in any way cut off from supporting the needy and I think that these two days could be celebrated de facto on the same day and would not be in contradiction with each other. Their combined circumvention would even promote the fight against poverty by means of measures that can be allocated to companies in the direct sales sector. Direct sale of agricultural products, which is carried out on farms, is a sale which, as I have already mentioned, is not covered by these data, which are held by the designers and the Polish Direct Sales Association. On the other hand, if the High House decides to start working on a project that would give a legal framework, whether direct sales as such, or direct sales of agricultural products on a farm that would be modified in any way in order to promote it, it is not excluded in my view that this type of work is to be carried out together and to promote both sales ideas together, as they are not contradictory. They are largely based on the same assumption, on contact with the consumer, on contact between the seller and the consumer, and I think that here these two ideas would not be in contradiction. If I were to refer in turn to other arguments, other issues that fell in the positions of clubs, the designers appreciate very much the values that have emerged here, references to the number of consumers, to the number of sellers who operate in direct sales systems, because this really shows how strong this industry is in Poland and how determined it is to eliminate unethical standards, unethical practices that appear in such systems. But you have to remember. that these non-ethical standards, these non-ethical practices are applied by traders who are not interested in complying with consumer rights rules, because the consumer rights rules that purchase products in a non-premises system are quite extensive, give a large guarantee to the consumer and ensure the protection of that consumer. The problem is that there are entities that are not interested in complying with them. The Polish Direct Sales Association has been trying to disseminate this knowledge for years, has been involved in promoting entrepreneurship among students, promoting knowledge about ethical values and standards in direct sales, engaging in organising conferences, cooperating with the Consumer Federation, participating in conferences and events that are devoted to direct sales problems, to show that there are companies that are ethical, there are companies that do not accept violations of consumer rights, and there are companies that guarantee consumers more than the rules of Polish law. I think such standards are worth promoting. All the more so thank you for these votes in support of direct sales, addressed to project developers. I hope that in the committee we will be able to provide support and answers to all the questions that will arise during the committee work. Of course, we are here declaring our readiness to answer any questions that will arise. I think that today, which I am very happy about, the creators of this project succeeded, with 115 thousand. citizens who supported the project to get something that doesn't happen often, namely a situation in which basically - forgive me if I am usurping myself here too far-reaching right of assessment - all clubs have spoken with one voice. I wish that this will happen to the High House as often as possible and that all projects will work as efficiently as this project can be summarised here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u243	Thank you. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft law on the establishment of 17 October on the Day of Direct Sales, contained in print No 28, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes today's meeting. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Food Safety and Nutrition and some other laws (Print No 170). I ask Mr Mark Sawicki to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Members of the applicants a draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and certain other laws. I would like to remind you that this is not a new project, this project was already being examined at the meeting of the Sejm on 23 September 2015 in the previous term, it was addressed to the committee, unfortunately, due to the end of the term of office of the Sejm it was not finally adopted. I would like to make it clear that this project mainly concerns matters relating to direct sales. Let me remind you that, with regard to the current condition for direct sales, which we have also just mentioned in the previous point, we have a situation where products which have not been processed from the holding can be sold in certain quantities without tax, while products processed after the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act can be sold at a certain value, i.e. up to around 600 thousand. PLN per year, 150 thousand. Euros, for the so-called a flat-rate tax, a 2% income tax on the usual declaration of this processing and this production, and in a book entry or any other register which the farmer, processor, seller will be able to keep and perform. [[Once a day.]] A year, of course. I would also like to say that, in addition to these two sales systems, there is still the possibility of marketing, but when registering economic activities, processed agricultural products from the farm within the framework of the so-called. marginal production, limited local production. Today, more than 2 000 are involved in this activity in Poland. farms, already known as enterprises, because they get this status after registration. In this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, coming up against these solutions, which we have just adopted in the Personal Income Tax Act adopted in the previous parliamentary term on 9 April 2015, we want to put security oversight issues in order, because also EU legislation, and national legislation, shows that when it comes to food marketing, food sales, consumer safety is paramount and that both national and EU legislation is very strict in this respect. Many times, not only in this House, but also in various discussions in the field, the question of why food products, often produced in a particular village, live tens or hundreds of kilometres, are processed, packaged and often later returned to this producer of raw materials, a farmer, a consumer, staying a long way for a long time. So here, when it comes to direct sales, when we are discussing the possibility of increasing profitability in agriculture, it is important that on this farm where the product is produced, it can be processed and sold, whether it is sold directly on the farm, whether it is sold on the nearest market, so that individual links can be eliminated from this chain of intermediaries and that on the one hand the consumer receives a product of known origin, fresh, desirable quality, and on the other hand, so that the producer can make part of the added value obtained by intermediaries or processors, enter into his farm, leave his family. Thus, often such a fundamental obstacle to the taking up of direct sales, direct sales activity was precisely the need to register this activity, to keep the whole system of financial records of such activities carried out within the framework of, for example, MOL, food safety and control regulations. To date, the issue of supervision of direct sales, the preparation of these products on the farm, i.e. their processing, is carried out by sanitary inspection, but the registration of the holding, registration of this production is carried out in the Veterinary Inspection. The point is not to cause this fear to farmers of a few institutions that control the farm. It is often said by farmers that, above all, we are afraid of the multitude of checks that are carried out on a farm that decides on processing and direct sales, we expect this to be sorted out. This draft law transfers the competence of health inspection to the Veterinary Inspection so that a farmer with that veterinary district inspector who knows his farm can undertake or carry out his work on an ongoing basis. This inspector, of course, not only controls, but also recommends, supervises this production, and what is important, also determines the conditions when there are any external epidemiological threats, also carries out this strict control and surveillance. Thus, there is no concern as regards consumers that consumers can obtain a product of untested quality and, on the other hand, this possibility of direct relations and contact of the veterinarian, Veterinary Inspection, producer and later consumer also has its value. I still want to highlight one important element. Well, a certain relationship was historically established between the consumer and the producer. The consumer who will benefit from production on the farm and direct sales can be directly checked under what conditions and how the preparation or production of the food product he uses is carried out. This is also a value that also raises the kind of production-production awareness of the manufacturer and supplier himself. Moreover, the market is growing rapidly, and special consumer cooperatives are already being established in cities, which expect on the other hand such a supply and a producer of traditional, simple food produced directly on the farm, with a known origin. I think that this solution, this change, these provisions are conducive to this type of approach to the food sector and the possibility of processing and selling on the farm. Therefore, on behalf of the applicants, I ask the High House to treat this project with kindness and acceptance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u245	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. So I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to make an opinion on the Law and Justice Act on Food Safety and Nutrition. I am convinced that we must do everything we can to develop this direction in Poland, which is very popular in many other European countries, namely the sale of both unprocessed food and this first processing directly from farms, in particular to the local market. This is due not only to certain trends that are beginning to dominate among consumers, mostly Europeans, to trends that are related to the search for fresh food, from a precisely defined place, from a well-known producer, to high-quality food, but also to the needs that consumers are increasingly reporting in these short chains. In Poland this situation is even more complicated, or the needs and expectations are perhaps even greater than among farmers in Western Europe. This is due to the much worse economic situation of Polish farmers, as well as the fact that a large number of small, relatively small farm productions have significant problems with placing their production on the market in relation to large processing plants or the need to be convicted of intermediaries. Therefore, I am convinced that direct sales of unprocessed food and this first processing food should be facilitated. This bill goes in this direction and very well, we will support it. These are reasonable solutions. Of course, as Minister Sawicki mentioned, the safety of this food is absolutely essential. This is not only a legal requirement, but also the expectation that food that is offered regardless of the form of sale is safe food. This food safety, for which the State is responsible and which it supervises through the food control system, must also apply to producers supplying their products in direct sales. Although, of course, we must take into account the scale of the risks, the scale of the risks, so the intensity and scope of the controls must be adequate to the production volume on these farms. It seems to be absolutely obvious. Therefore, we do not deny the control system of food placed on the market also directly on farms, the control system must be provided. We believe that the direction in this law, which shifts the responsibility of health inspection to the Veterinary Inspection, is absolutely right. The veterinary inspection shall have an adequate number of staff of appropriate quality. It is an inspection which supervises animal production on holdings, it knows these holdings. It is also important that the farmer knows the inspector who takes care of his farm or his farm supervises it. That is why we believe that this is the right, right direction. And now for this barrel of honey a little bit, this spoon of the proverbial child. I am concerned that it is only the electoral disaster that prompts applicants to propose good solutions. I'm asking, Minister, why didn't we proceed with this bill when the income tax bill was pushed on the knee, because that was the name of the bill that was supposed to facilitate direct sales. It's a waste of time not to say, a fool who hasn't actually developed anything in terms of direct sales, on the contrary, has scared away the consequences of the cartels of many of those who... [[That's not true.]] ...they wanted to sell directly, and actually they're going to have to change it and update it. If this bill had been processed then, in parallel with this proposal that came out, if I remember correctly, from the Senate, we could have already since January this year had the beginnings of a well-functioning market with direct sales from farms, but it's already a bit of a pro Memoria. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that this is absolutely the right direction, we will support this, although we also expect a clear position and the development of this law to be the subject of this legislation as well. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Government. Then we can create good solutions for which absolutely Polish village is waiting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u247	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Leszek Ruszczyk to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u248	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the draft law amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and some other laws, print No 170. The proposed amendments aim to clarify the competence of the State Sanitary Inspection and Veterinary Inspection for the supervision of food-producing entities and retailing their products. Thanks to the changes introduced, the Veterinary Inspection becomes an official food control body competent to supervise food safety over farmers' retail and production establishments. Farmers can therefore produce and process products of animal origin in order to sell them to direct consumers, i.e. to the final consumer. Farmers can, by way of clarification in the Food Safety Supervision Act, produce locally, shorten the supply chain and intermediaries, and sell fresh food directly to the benefit of consumers. To date, these supervisory powers have been assigned to the State Sanitary Inspection in the field of retail trade. The veterinary inspection, having experience in the supervision of production holdings, the production of food of animal origin and its placing on the market, with the staff of official veterinarians, is as competent as possible to carry out such supervision. It is therefore reasonable for the authorities of that inspection to also supervise the production and processing of animal products by allowing them to be retailed. The aim of the proposed amendment is to establish precisely this supervisory competence for the Veterinary Inspections on the safety of food production and retailing and to enable farmers to directly trade their products in home establishments or markets. However, in view of the broadening of competences, we see the need to increase the expenditure on the Veterinary Inspection in order to secure the financing of possible new jobs. Seeing the appropriateness of introducing changes in food and nutrition safety oversight and facilitating farmers' control of the production and sale of fresh food sold to direct consumers, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the project and is in favour of further proceding the above law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u249	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After all, the Polish parliament is starting to take care of the Polish village, and I am very happy about it, without, of course, paying attention to party affiliations. The purpose of the Law on the revision of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and some other laws is to designate the Veterinary Inspection as the official food control body responsible for the supervision of food safety over retail establishments operated by farmers, in which production is also carried out in addition to the sale to final consumers. At present, such supervision in the retail trade of products of animal origin is subject to the State Sanitary Inspection. The entry into force of the proposed law will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy and entrepreneurship, given the clear indication that such farmers can produce and sell products of such origin in retail trade in establishments supervised by one official food control body. This is a very good bill, Mr Sawicki, and we will support it as the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15, but it does not comprehensively solve the problem of direct sales. Yesterday morning at the press conference we presented a law on the sale of food by farmers, here a sticker on sale directly from a Polish farmer, and this is a comprehensive solution to problems. Please follow our work, because in this case we support a project which is aimed at the welfare of Polish agriculture, because this good has not been cared about so far. I will only mention the late request by Minister Marek Sawicki to Brussels and the loss of 800 million for tobacco growers. In 2014, from 17 to 18 December, at night, 15 minutes before hours. One, you tried to assassinate the State Forests, assassination of a constitution that nobody's talking about, there's no one here, there's no media, so we can discuss it now, because it hasn't been so popular so far. You wanted to change the law so that the Forests could be privatized under the exceptions set out in the Act. [[Bullshit.]] You have prepared a law on the protection of Polish land, which should rather be called: sales of Polish land. We support good ideas. It is necessary to return to the roots of direct sales, it is the sale of Polish food. Mr Rafale Trzaskowski, it is a pity that you are not here either, because yesterday you spoke of calling for a boycott of German goods, so I think you prefer, I don't know, German cuisine, maybe kebab. Over-regulation today is detrimental to the sale on the line of the farmer - the consumer. It has come to a peculiar situation that sausage bought from a Polish farmer is a black market product. The young people leave the village because the role of the farmer has been limited to the production of a product whose notabene has nowhere to sell. Supermarkets dominated small-town and rural trade. The farmer from Tarnów grows parsley, and in his local shop there is parsley e.g. from Kielce, and at best this is his parsley, which has visited half of Poland to return to the same place, costs a thousand times more, and the farmer has nothing to live for. Our tables must be returned to healthy Polish food from our native farms, and the quality of the products will be the responsibility of the farmer, because he knows best how to produce Polish food. We need a return to the root of direct sales. Today's situation has led us to receive second-class food, e.g. Danish 20-year-old pork. My dream, and at the same time my goal, is to create direct sales centers across Poland with healthy Polish food. As a result, the farmer will sell his goods more expensively and the consumer will spend less on food. This will allow healthy competition with supermarkets. The Law on the revision of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act is a good step to regulate agricultural issues will help to regulate sales to farmers from areas subject to animal health restrictions. The amendment allows for sale at marketplaces by which all places intended for trading are understood. There is currently an exception in the form of a ban on sales in buildings. As a Kukiz club15, we support the law on amending the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and some other laws, because it will contribute to the welfare of agriculture in Poland. We are also counting on the support of our law on the sale of food by farmers and the amendment of some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u251	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for the floor on behalf of the Posel Club Modern Mrs Joanna Augustynowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party concerns changes to the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and the Veterinary Inspection Act aimed at entrusting the Veterinary Inspection with the competence to supervise the safety of products of animal origin in their production, sale by farmers in the framework of retail trade. We're able to... We understand the bill, we understand my previous speaker here, who talked about preferring Polish products, but I would like to refer to one very important issue that you forgot. If we do not regulate and allow the examination of agricultural products that are produced - then you propose Minister Sawicki in your bill - that is, we will not simplify these procedures, we will actually have a situation where farmers will sell these products, but they will do so within the grey zone or they will do so in breach of the rules. And that is what we should avoid, because so far it has been constructed in such a way that the farmer who wanted to sell his products had to, in accordance with the law, visit a health inspection, which for logistical reasons is usually - there is a slightly different procedure, so it is necessary - away from the farmer's place of residence. Thus, the solution proposed by Minister Sawicki in this draft law is more favourable to farmers and as if it simplifies this procedure. That's why modern 100% will support such solutions. On the other hand, there is one question that raises our doubts regarding the transfer of the full scope of competence to the Veterinary Inspection. These doubts are actually due to the absence of a draft opinion of this inspection, whether the Veterinary Inspection has personnel resources, appropriate test mechanisms, because I understand that the whole procedure should be transferred from health inspection to veterinary inspectors. That is why the modern direction will support change, because we believe that legislation needs to be simplified, adapted to the needs of the farmers waiting, and thus have a positive impact on the development of the economy. Nevertheless, we will vote, we are in favour of working a little more on this bill in committee to find out if the proposed changes will not lead to difficulties or increase additional costs for the Veterinary Inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u253	Thank you very much. I would like to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party by Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Presenting the position of the club of the Polish People's Party on the Law on Food Safety and on amending certain other laws, I would like to say that my club will support the proceding of this law and the transfer of it to the agricultural committee. I would also like to draw attention to the question of perhaps misunderstanding by President Ardanowski of the law on direct sales extended by the provisions of the Personal Income Tax Act, because I would like to make it clear that, firstly, there is no risk of any fiscal control on the holding, because the sale takes place on the register and here it is possible to... If you're selling this kind of business honestly, and that's what we're assuming, then the IRS doesn't come to the farm and control this farm, doesn't check its accounts, because this one isn't required at all. Secondly, it is important for this form of direct sales that if the farmer sells products of a value not exceeding 150 000. The euro is still a farmer per year and remains in the farmer's insurance system and does not go into the general insurance system. I would also like to draw Mr Kaczmarczyk's attention to the fact that in fact Poland, agriculture does not start in 2015, from the parliamentary elections when the Kukiz club entered the Sejm. Please note that since the entry into the European Union, food production in Poland has increased by more than 50% And that from a country that was a deficit country in food production, imported more than he was selling, we became a country with a surplus in food production, where the export surplus for 2015 will certainly exceed EUR 6.5 billion. So at the total value of sales, when we sell about 1/3 of food products for export we produce this positive trade balance in agri-food products, so the accusation that the Polish consumer is convicted only for imported food, poor quality, is simply unreasonable. I would also like to stress that food sold in Poland, both domestic food and food of foreign origin, is healthy and safe, because there are a number of inspections on the quality of this food, and it is their job not to allow food of poor quality to reach the consumer. So respect must be given to those inspections that keep food safe. I would also like to stress that the issue of the amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act is that there, by mistake, it has been stated that food products in direct sales cannot be sold indoors. It is natural that, if processed products require a refrigeration counter, they require certain storage conditions during sale, sales must take place under safe and sanitary or veterinary conditions. Therefore, this is only an amendment to that error, to that change. Finally, for many years now, we have been working together, regardless of what political options we come from, on how to actually introduce on a wider scale the food produced on the farm, processed on the farm and eventually set off direct sales. This is not an easy matter because it is a question of competition of certain economic operators in Poland. Strongly developed agri-food processing, competitive on European and global markets, is not interested in the strong development of farm processing and direct sales. I am pleased that further products are being produced, and I know that the current Minister of Agriculture is also working on another concept in direct sales. We're gonna crash this in Parliament anytime soon. I believe that together we are able to work out good solutions and finally oppose on the one hand the power of processing and organised trade, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and, on the other hand, often a certain inertia and reluctance from inspection and supervision of food safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u255	Thank you very much. Ten Members have entered the list of questions. Therefore, after the first question, I will close the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. Please don't go past that time. I would like to ask Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the Law and Justice Club for the first question. You're welcome. Excuse me, from the club of the Polish People's Party. That's it. I apologize for the mistake, but I know that the Member is from this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u256	It's a human mistake. Mrs. Marshal! Today's proceedings over the bill perfectly fit into the citizens' draft law on the adoption of the Day of Direct Selling. We are all aware that thanks to this revision the whole process has a chance to accelerate and have a positive impact on the economic and material situation, enable improvement and increase the production base. I also hope, in the light of the statements made by my previous speakers, that the Ministry of Agriculture with Minister Jurgiel, as former Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, will be very actively and without undue delay involved in the preparation of all the formal and substantive conditions that will enable the legislation to enter into force as soon as possible and will help, create new facilitations for our farmers and producers. Things have been different in the past, but we put off what was, we look forward. I think, Minister, that I may have such hope as this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is also directly related to agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u257	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Miazga, now from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments proposed in the parliamentary draft of the Law on Food Safety and Nutrition do not say anything, among others. the slaughter at which the establishments will be carried out. The structure of agricultural holdings in Poland is very fragmented, with nearly 1.5 million of them. In this situation, there may be a lot of micro-plants producing food. Will a state veterinary inspection be able to meet its obligations so as not to make food safety worse? We hear that the proposed law will not impose additional burdens on the state budget. How is that possible? It is reasonable that the first step should be to integrate production control services, quality and security, to make legislative changes to the structure of the control authorities of this area and to create a single body that brings together the powers of the current control bodies, so-called. Food control from field to table. In the current factual and legal situation, the powers of the audit authorities are broadly aligned. Often there is no adequate exchange of information between authorities, leading even to conflicting decisions. This situation creates large legal gaps and significantly increases the cost of the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u259	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just a little bit of attention, actually. Maybe I'll start by thanking you very warmly, because I think this is a very good direction. This direct sale is really expected by our farmers. Such practices are applied in Western countries, especially in the south of Europe. We know that for years, despite the much more difficult climate, such sales have been carried out there, and this really is a great support for farmers there. However, I have such a slight remark and such a request that when drawing up implementing rules on the rules of this production and sales, use an appropriate measure for this small production, so that it does not turn out that there will be such restrictive rules that will, of course, confirm and prove, because any control... Her first job is to prove she's necessary. But they will simply be too restrictive for farmers to make such production and such direct sales. That's why I'm calling here, from here, to just apply the right measure to these [[♪ The bell ♪]] small farms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u261	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Dorota Sunday from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to appeal for precise naming here, once again. I just want to remind you that, as far as agriculture is concerned, direct sales are functioning. This applies to raw materials, and our task is to deepen this sales by processing. The problem of processing was as if in two directions: both sanitary and veterinary requirements and tax matters. Let me remind you that the law that we adopted, which Mr Ardanowski criticised as if it had handled the tax issue, i.e. farmers don't have to start businesses, they can only process food in their kitchens. And here bow to the health inspection, Minister Posobkiewicz, who issued... On the pages of the Main Sanitary Inspectorate there are already simple guidelines on what the kitchen prepared for small processing should look like. Indeed, there are very different health requirements for large productions and HACCPs and for small productions in kitchens, while the problem that this law deals with... And here I really thank you for such a good reception of all the clubs, because it is really important that what is of animal origin is subject to one inspection, so that it is clear and transparent and that in detail it is still supervised by the Veterinary Inspection, and what concerns food related to plants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] was subject to health inspection. My question is: Is it possible for the Ministry to co-finance this inspection because more supervision will be in the Veterinary Inspection?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u263	Member, finish up. Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u264	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Minister! Dear Members, The first question will be about parsley today, namely... Please don't take this as a joke. What is the position of the Ministry regarding the correctness of the purchase of parsley produced at Kielce in Tarnów? Is there something wrong with that? I will say more: Is there anything wrong with the fact that there is Polish parsley in shops in Berlin, Paris? [[Polish parsley.]] What would happen if such voices as we heard here today appeared in the parliaments of these countries and, God forbid, someone banned the import of parsley from Poland to supply the local market? What would be the position of the Ministry of Agriculture if such a ban were to arise? And it appeared with us, and it was clearly voices against Polish agriculture. So I call for some sense and less demagogy, populism on the platform. And the second question about direct sales. Of course, this project is a project that goes straight to farmers' expectations, but the question is: may have even greater freedom to sell products produced on their own holding, and this really regulates the Freedom of Business Act, which says that farmers can, without tax, without doing any additional business, offer these products on the market. But there is also one processed product in the Freedom of Business Act, i.e. grape wine, and that's an exception. I wanted to ask you about the position of the Ministry of Agriculture: Is it envisaged - is there such a plan - to extend the catalogue of products produced on the farm to other products? For example, it is identical with cider fruit wine, which we produce from fruit, but not from grapes, which today has to go to the market with a little more problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If there is an idea for cider to be included in this catalogue, will it gain the support of the agricultural department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u265	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mrs Anna Paluch from the Law and Justice Club. You don't have an MP? [[There it is.]] [[I'm here.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, giving the Veterinary Inspection competence to supervise food safety in the control of retail establishments run by farmers, where, in addition to selling to final consumers, production is also carried out, including the processing of products of animal origin, that is to say, simplifying the procedure, which is, rather than with two inspections, a farmer working in this area works with one, which is a step in the right direction, of course. This is to make life easier for Polish farmers. However, the question needs to be asked to what extent these new obligations will affect the workload of the Veterinary Inspection. I remember the situation a few years ago. The situation in the inspection is that if the district veterinarian does not have the capacity to carry out all the tasks imposed on him, he shall designate veterinarians working as operators. I remember this situation when the Veterinary Chamber, the Medical Chamber of Veterinary Physicians, refused to carry out these tasks by appointment, because the administration could not pay decent money for these tasks, i.e. the financial problem in the Veterinary Inspection occurs. So I have a question. Are there any estimates of how these obligations would increase the inspection burden and whether there is any chance of a solution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this a financial problem? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u267	The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Polak, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u268	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland's village, Polish farmers need every possible support. This support, which gives Polish farmers the opportunity to sell directly, is of course very much needed and desirable. Polish farmers will certainly benefit from this support or already benefit from it. Nevertheless, High Izbo, what my previous speakers said is important. The budget for the Veterinary Inspection shall be determined and the tasks of the year shall arrive. At this point, it is important to mention, for example, the increasing scale of work for district veterinarians, for example in relation to ASF or other infectious diseases. Here I'd like to, I don't know, appeal, ask. Since we're all in agreement here, there's a consensus. whether or not we should consider, in the 2016 budget, some additional resources for the Veterinary Inspection, in order to be able to cope perfectly with this increase in the number of tasks to be carried out. Doesn't the Minister share the view that these measures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which are planned for the Veterinary Inspection this year, are they insufficient? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Through direct sales of processed products of plant and animal origin, we want to help farmers, especially in smaller farms, to market their production on the local market. We also want to provide an additional stream of money for these farms, as well as the opportunity to sell the work that farmers can do. This is an action that is needed as much as possible. Regardless of the fact that we have well-developed trade, wholesale trade, we have food processing in Poland at a high, European, global level, lacked this segment of direct sales. It's a good thing it's in this direction. actions shall be taken. Once again, I want to positively assess the direction of the proposed changes. I am also pleased that during the previous term of office of the Sejm I was involved in the work of the subcommittee which tried to solve this problem of a square wheel. I welcome the change in the approach of the Minister of Health, represented by Minister Posobkiewicz, because the barrier so far has often been to misunderstand these expectations of farmers from the health department. The question to the Minister is very simple: Once this law has been backed up by a government law, which has been dealt with together, we will carry out and these solutions will be found, they are needed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] large information campaigns for farmers, so that the benefits of this will be... [[They could've used it.]] ...they could use it so they could know how to use it. That's the question. Or a suggestion to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u271	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u272	A large information campaign should be prepared in this regard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u273	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We know very clearly that any change, amendment of the law, often forces those concerned to comply with new requirements and bear costs. I have a question about that. Will new conditions, rules, requirements for the production of food on the farm be established? Let's hope they're not too restrictive. Will the farmer be forced to adapt his farm again to the recommendations of the veterinarian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u275	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club. Is the Member here? [[It's, it's, it's coming.]] Oh, it is, actually. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, let me be honest, it is already going well, because just a year ago, Minister Sawicki and I were sitting on two different sides of the table, right now we are talking from one speaker. Were we even standing under the URM? The issue of farm processing is extremely important, especially for small farms. Of course, I wanted to ask you this. We have this maximum ability to sell about 600 thousand. Is it expected that there will be some differentiation between those who reach this upper limit of 600 000 on the holdings that will carry out this processing? zł, and those who are absolutely enough - and these are the limits of their capabilities - e.g. 6,000. zł. I come from the south of Poland, where very small farms prevail. It is virtually impossible to achieve such a high turnover. However, with a few thousand zlotys, if these checks were very restrictive, in practical terms, the processing in such a situation will be completely cost-effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u277	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Artur Dunin, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very glad that this project is back in the marshal's staff. We will be able to discuss it, because as I recall, it has already been, only not everyone was interested in bringing it to an end, making these changes to our legal order. I hope that now, after all the votes from right to left, everyone supports this direction. Although I hear they're already being reported by some parliamentarians, on the right-hand side of the political scene, that they are, but... I hope we can do this. I have one question for the Minister in the Ministry of Agriculture: Is it true that the Ministry is also in favour of changing in this direction in our Polish law so that farmers can actually sell their products directly in small quantities. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u279	Thank you very much. The next question, the last one, I ask Mr Marian Zembala from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very happy to accept this decision. Congratulations to the initiator, Minister Sawicki. I would like to thank all of you over the divisions that we see the farmer's problem this way, and each of you, each of you, is involved. Let me thank my colleague from this important House - when we have reached a decision - Minister Posobkiewicz, a very talented man. I also thank him for giving this very interesting guide to good practice for entrepreneurs. Perhaps you don't know that. It was a pleasure working with him. Such people should continue to work for the good of this country. It also has a significant role of the leader in taming, in the fight against boosters. I'm taking this opportunity to bow down to him, to my coworkers and to the entire team of people. It is in a compromise way that good solutions must be sought. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u281	Thank you very much. In this way, we have exhausted the list of Members who have been assigned to the question. So please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mrs Ewa Lech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On the part of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to express our support for the ideas proposed in the draft law. We agree with these proposals. In the same way, we agree with the justification that the State has submitted to this bill. We also support the comments made here in the Chamber. Of course, we want our farmers, as in all Western Europe, in EU countries, to be able to sell their processed products, except that there are some inaccuracies here, because we are talking strictly about retail sales, commonly referred to as direct sales, and retail sales are simply sales of processed or processed products to the final consumer at this point. In any case, we would also like to extend the possibilities for farmers to sell processed products, i.e. those which are derived from raw material of animal origin and raw material of plant origin. This is a bow towards farmers, i.e. broadening these possibilities. We would also like to complete the impact assessment, because unfortunately the introduction of these new obligations and the assignment of supervision to the Veterinary Inspection brings more work. We'd also like to apply for jobs. I don't think we'd like to cede this surveillance to official veterinarians in private practice. In any case, since we would like to think about many more of these issues, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development believes that these issues should be addressed in the government draft law. We therefore propose that the work on the parliamentary project should be suspended until these issues are settled in the government bill. Here I thank you for your opportunity to present your position, but I would like to address a few questions. With regard to the creation of a new inspection, of course, the intention of the Minister of Agriculture is to create a new inspection, which will bring together all the inspections. It is planned to create such an inspection, to establish such an inspection from January next year. By March, there will probably be a bill that will set up this new inspection. There was a question about the requirements, whether we would use any facilitations, grant facilitations. In general, general EU legislation contains general veterinary requirements, while a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture will be issued for the law, which will determine the requirements. Of course, we will be moving towards some facilitations, but we will not exceed a certain limit that protects product safety, product health safety. In the explanatory memorandum... I was talking about fitting the veterinary inspection. We expect jobs to be needed, so we will talk about it here at the stage of work on the bill. The work on the government bill also provides for time to agree, there will be some proposals, some proposals to be agreed. Therefore, we see the necessity to stop the work on the parliamentary bill. I don't know if there was another question... Oh, with regard to the frequency of official controls, I have to say that the rule is that we use a risk assessment. After all, veterinarians who are on farms know what they can expect on the holding, and on the basis of the volume of production they can assess whether they should be more frequent or less frequent on the holding. I think we can handle it. There's no threat here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u283	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Sawicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs, but also the various Members who attended this debate for their constructive approach to the problem. The problem is indeed very complex, and we have been trying to solve it for many years. In my club speech, I mentioned that there is, however, a question here, and the processing sector, and trade, and, as I say, the war on this cake in terms of food products and the division in particular segments, links from field to table. Action is very active here, very strong and salvaging anything for producers, farmers is very difficult. This task of increasing the profitability of farms, improving their position on the market is to serve and serve the production groups created - I will remind you that in 2007 there were less than 350 of them, at the moment there are more than 1.5 thousand of them. - but the level of organization is still very low. The number of farms that deal with direct sales, if we exclude beemaking from this, is less than 2 000, and thus, as on a scale of 1.5 million farms in Poland, this is actually a margin. Indeed, the major problem with direct sales and production is, on the one hand, the EU rules which determine which products can be directly sold - i.e. primary products, unprocessed - and, on the other hand, very restrictive food safety rules. Here many speakers paid attention to how to approach this problem. Of course, the restrictiveness of inspection services in this area must be differentiated. I have mentioned this many times - despite various discussions also when, as Mr Duda says, we were on different sides. No, we were on the same side in this case. I have repeatedly pointed out that the best purchasing controller for a farmer is the consumer himself. If he gives up on the product once, he won't go there again and pass that information on to ten others. Another is a fresh product, sold directly from the farm, and another is one that makes its way to the processing plant, to the wholesaler, to the sorting plant and returns to the consumer. [[Exactly.]] So here we are talking about a product sold directly, about a short storage period... [[There are other requirements.]] ...and durability. And it's like the first guarantee of quality security. I would also like to say that I wish you the success of the current United Rights coalition on the consolidation of food inspections. This idea of PiS was presented in 2005 and 2007 and I willingly took over it - we were already really at the stage of the project - but with one exception. All inspections can be combined, but I'm sure it's a health inspection, at least until now... [[Well, it's not sanitary. Sanitary surrenders.]] ...doesn't allow you to rip out the food parts for a uniform inspection of the production, sale and production of food. So if you can beat this, you have an ally in me and I'm gonna cheer you up so that you actually have such a uniform inspection that it can function. I would also like to ask Minister Lech not to hold off on this project for the entire term of office, but to make these government projects appear quickly enough and, since we are talking today with such great concern from all sides of the political scene about the need for a positive solution to this problem, we have solved this problem. Finally, I will return to Mr Kaczmarczyk's speech from the Kukiz club15. Mr President, careful with the boycott of German food products, because we sold food products to the German market in 2015 for about EUR 6 billion, we certainly bought less than EUR 2 billion from them, so we have a surplus of EUR 4 billion. If the Germans listen to you today and apply the same appeal to German consumers, Polish farmers will certainly not thank you for it. And second note and information. You've returned to 2008 and the proposal for $2,000. tobacco producers. We have more than 14 000 tobacco producers, not 2 000, and as far as the issue of these 800 million zlotys is concerned, about 200 million euro, and this proposal did not involve any additional money, it concerned measures which were in the Polish envelope and would have to be taken from other agricultural producers for tobacco producers. I would like to remind you that at that time the payment for tobacco production from national funds was 29 000. PLN per hectare - 29 thousand. PLN per hectare. So raising this subsidy to farmers from the Rural Development Programme 200 million euro and such funding for a group of tobacco producers in my opinion would, however, be quite awkward. So that once again I thank you for your support and believe that this time we will be able to resolve the direct sales and processing of food products on the farm positively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u285	If all discussions were so peaceful and positive, the Sejm would be a model of work and peace. The discussion is closed. Mr Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the Food Safety and Nutrition Act and certain other laws, contained in print No 170, to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions (Prints 169 and 173). I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I don't see any representatives of the Ministry of Finance, I don't know if we should proceed with this important bill. Maybe they're around and they could join us soon. [[Voice from the room: We are 6 minutes early.]] [[The Minister was here somewhere.]] But it's up to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u287	I am calming the Member, the representatives are on their way, so I think that before there are statements on behalf of the clubs, these people will arrive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u288	I understand, well, that is, as rapporteur, I can speak at the moment. I am doing this with great pleasure, acting on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance. Your marshal just said that the Sejm could be a model of peace and work, and such works were all the time when we were working on the Tax Act for some financial institutions. I would like to remind you that, at this moment, we are on the last straight, after the third reading, the document was sent to the Senate and returned with 15 amendments. The amendments were assessed by the Committee on Public Finance. The report of the Committee on Public Finance was submitted to the High House in print No 173. Allow me, in a few sentences, to refer to the area of change proposed by the Senate. Of the 15 amendments no. 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are of a substantive nature, the remaining amendments from 1 to 15 are editorial and have been assessed for the joint vote as such in the Sejm. Several amendments proposed by the Senate deserve attention, it can be said that they are quite important in substance. And so on. Amendment 3 defines more broadly the institutions subject to tax, including related entities, by creating a very broad and wise definition, so that, when this tax has already been addressed to a particular type of entity, there is no attempt and the need to avoid paying it. The definition of subsidiaries, linked to a group, linked by other entities has just been extended to seal the system. The following amendment, Substantive Amendment No 6, deletes the provision on separate rules for reducing the tax base of cooperative banks. Amendment 7, and this is the amendment, which is the only one of this 15 amendments, has not received a positive opinion from the Committee on Public Finance. It introduces an obligation for cooperative banks to take into account the value of assets that come from cooperative banks. In view of this amendment, which is widely discussed, the position of the committee is different from that of the Senate, here will be the proposal to reject this amendment. Amendment 8. specifies the possibility of deduction from the tax base of all assets purchased from the National Bank of Poland, which are the collateral for the refinancing credit. So far, it's only been 50% in the record. Amendment 9 leaves a reference directly to the provision on the granting of a refinancing loan by the NBP, which clarifies this previous amendment. And Amendment 10, the last of its substance, assumes that all taxpayers whose assets at the end of the month justify tax exemption are required to submit a tax return. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all those who have engaged actively and creatively in the work on this law - I would say - important from the point of view of the government's plans to increase the revenue of the state budget for 2016 and subsequent years. Thanks to your work and commitment, it turned out that it would be possible to enter into force in accordance with the intentions of the applicants - I will remind you that this is a parliamentary project - from the beginning of February. This deadline will not be affected, and I must also say that this revenue will certainly be very useful in the 2016 budget and will be consistently implemented in the following years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u289	Thank you very much. And in order to reassure the Member, I would like to inform you that we already have a representative of the Government in the Chamber, so that there will be no problem. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will therefore immediately ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u290	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to express the position of the club with regard to the report of the Committee on Public Finances in print No 173. I would like to say that the tax on certain financial institutions has, of course, aroused a lot of emotions, has been widely discussed in the press, in the media, but it is worth recalling that the very idea of this tax has found a very high social permission. The applicants in the project planned revenue from this tax at a level higher than the finance minister planned, preparing a draft budget law for the current year, because there we have an amount of 5.5 billion, and applicants wrote about an amount higher by 1 billion - 1.5 billion even. I think that working on this law allowed to a large extent bring the chance of obtaining revenue to the state budget at this level, which was enshrined in the explanatory memorandum of the parliamentary project. I think that's good news. The Finance Commission, but also the Senate, worked this document very carefully and clarified the field for the functioning of this tax in such a way that, firstly, this tax would function and give significant income items for the state budget, but taking into account such a basic criterion as not to distort the competitiveness of the operators operating in this area. It is interesting to note that, as a result of the initiative submitted by your Members, the parties who were to be excluded from this tax in the original version were also included here, but operate in the area of financial services, credit, loans and there was no reason why they would have a special privilege here and compete with the institutions that would be burdened with this tribute. In my mind, I think that I am not alone in this, it has just been a good thing that the direction of the work on this document has been set and completed in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote on the Senate amendments in line with the position of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Arndt will make a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! The examination of the Senate's amendments actually concludes Parliament's work on the Tax Act for certain financial institutions. The rapporteur said that the finance committee worked calmly and substantively on this tax. I confirm that it was, but that doesn't mean that we agreed with everything and we still agree. Well, our club still believes that the formula adopted by the applicants, the taxation of the assets of financial institutions, i.e. banks, insurance companies, loan companies, this is not the best solution. It seems that what is happening on the market confirms our observations. At least six banks today have already raised margins on mortgage loans, and the next ones are considering such a step. We have information that banks want to reduce the interest rate on deposits, some large banks, corporations, think about reaching for loans outside our country. It's not a good solution, we've signaled it before, and unfortunately that's what's happening. The amendments made by the Senate also show that the law was not well prepared. The Senate has prepared 15 amendments and, statistically speaking, one amendment falls into one article. We had 16 articles, including one article, about the date of entry into force of the law, which is actually for every article, statistically, one amendment was prepared. It was not a well-prepared law, and I think it is a lesson, especially for the ruling group, that such laws should rather prepare the government and have full legislative support, but not enough, to consult the many actors who are interested in this matter. As I said, 15 Senate amendments, most of them These are legislative amendments, clarifying, correcting misrepresentations, eliminating unnecessary provisions. In fact, as the rapporteur said, one substantive amendment has aroused some emotions. This is the amendment that we made at second reading, we thought that cooperative banks would not have to pay asset tax on those assets, on the funds that cooperative banks pay to them. Unfortunately, the Senate did not share this opinion, but I think the High House will restore this record that the Sejm has passed. I hope so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that this amendment will not be accepted, in any case our club will not support this amendment. All other amendments are acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski will make a statement on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to declare on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 that the Kukiz Club will support all the amendments of the Senate, because these amendments are mostly, as the predecessor mentioned, except in principle one amendment, which is strictly substantively, they are amendments aimed at improving the legislative quality of this law, they bring nothing new in substance to this law. I would like to point out that we continue to support the idea of introducing a bank tax. We believe that the so-called. the banking tax will contribute to the increase in the revenue of the state budget, to the abolition of the privileged position of the banking and financial sector as regards the creation of more than average income in the economy because of their privileged position, which is not apparent from their role in the economic sector of the country, but resulting from their privileged position, primarily legal position, with the creation of oligopolies, which aim to achieve more than average profits. As far as this amendment related to cooperative banks is concerned, we will also support this amendment, because we believe that this clarification in terms of capital groups is appropriate for holding companies. We would like this tax to be monitored for the future, so that we can see and see clearly whether it has an impact on credit reduction, whether it has an impact on the increase in bank margins and whether, in the future, if there is no such impact, it will be possible to raise this tax so that households and individuals, the citizens of whom we represent, can be further relieved. So that, in conclusion, the Kukiz Club supports the amendments sent by the Senate and, of course, will continue to support the above mentioned amendments. The bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u295	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the club, a modern statement will be presented by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we are slowly completing work on this tax, as my predecessors have said. The Modern Club still believes that this tax is not the best solution we could offer in this regard. We still believe that it will be passed on to customers, that customers will pay in the form of higher credit prices, less availability of these credits. Banks either transfer it to customers, or on the other hand start looking for costs by firing employees, or, for example, as the Member mentioned, a reduction in the price of deposits. We believe that this will give rise to various inappropriate, bad effects on the market and on customers. In fact, at the last sitting, the Senate introduced 15 amendments to this law. Most of them are tidy and two are questionable. The first one is Amendment 7. The proposed change was in order to weaken the position on the cooperative banks market, which are often difficult to recall, let's compete with large international banks and which are usually used by smaller towns and villages residents and small Polish entrepreneurs. Luckily, the committee had a negative opinion on the amendment. The Modern Club is also strongly in favour of rejecting this amendment. Moreover, we have the impression that this amendment was another attempt at better positioning in the financial market of SKOKs, which we know have a strong lobby in the Senate, which is often a direct competition of cooperative banks. We thank the PiS Members here for an objective assessment of the situation and a clear look at the problem. The major changes are also amendment 3, which assumes that the insurance tax will be charged jointly for the whole group. The initiators of this amendment indicate that it is necessary to prevent the division of insurers in order to avoid paying this tax. Let us remind you that in this group the tax is to be paid over PLN 2 billion of assets. It is worth noting here that the division of insurance companies into smaller entities in order to avoid paying this tax is not so simple as it requires the acceptance of the Financial Supervision Authority. On the other hand, the amended amendment could have far-reaching effects beyond the fact that it would prevent payment of this tax and artificial divisions. Moreover, it is imprecise, expanding bureaucracy and the tax system itself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] gives rise to a number of misunderstandings and ambiguities. Initiators didn't anticipate many issues there, such as the answer to the question of how...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u297	Member, finish your statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u298	...the tax is to be settled, who from the group is to be the payer, who is responsible for errors, what if one of the entities has less than 100% shares or principal, supervisor...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u299	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u300	...is outside the country. In this respect, we are really calling for this amendment to be rejected and, if necessary, to be prepared with a solid, precise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u301	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u302	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Senate resolution. The Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced 15 amendments to the law commonly called the Banking Tax Act. Many of these amendments abolish erroneous references to existing legislation. Some of the amendments are more precise in defining and harmonising the wording used, which will certainly result in a uniform interpretation of the law being introduced in the future. It should be recalled that the bill was a parliamentary project, as was the majority of which was examined by the High House, and which was proceded abruptly, in haste, without a calm assessment and consultation, even from the government and institutions that were entitled to do so at first. Although justified for social reasons, the draft Tax Act, which concerns sensitive matter and concerns about adverse economic impacts, would require a special, calm process. However, this is not the case, and certainly some of the mistakes are because of this. The Senate maintained that the tax base is assets, not any other parameters of financial institutions that would not bear the risk of a similar law in Hungary, so, as you can see, we do not even want to benefit from the experience of other countries. The PSL amendment concerning the economic monitoring caused by this tax did not receive support from the governing party and was not introduced by the Senate either. This is not a good solution for the law. By contrast, we call the misunderstanding Amendment 7, which states that the cooperative bank will only be able to reduce the tax base if these measures were previously taxed in a cooperative bank. After all, we know that at the threshold of 4 billion no Polish cooperative bank will be subject to such tax, and rightly so. The Polish People's Party voted in the Sejm in favour of the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions with the awareness that only large national and foreign banks will be taxed in the banking sphere, whereas this amendment of the Senate exposes small cooperative banks, which manage only national, Polish small capital, for security that form cooperative banks associations. We are strongly in favour of rejecting Amendment 7 [[♪ The bell ♪]] and we support the remaining 14 amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u303	Thank you very much. There are two members on the list. I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Arndt from the Civic Platform club for the first question. [[What time, Marshal?]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question I wanted to ask, actually, at first reading, concerns the possible notification of the law in the European Central Bank. Then the Minister replied that there was actually no need, because here the stability of financial institutions will not be affected. After these few weeks, after what is happening on the market, does the Minister continue to maintain his response and still think that there is no need to notify this law to the European Central Bank? And the second thing I wanted to ask, here my previous speakers have already said about monitoring the functioning of this law - does the government really have such plans? Isn't it worthwhile to lean on this bill in time and consider whether the income is really what it was planned and, above all, what is the market situation? Because what is happening on the market is bothering us, and it would be worth thinking about in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u305	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill is absolutely right. Taxes can pay and pay you what you can. However, it was with some concern that I accepted the information about Amendment 7 of the Senate and the added wording, if these assets were taxed in the cooperative bank. This is indeed worrying, because the sound so far met fully the expectations and not just the needs of the cooperative banking sector. The tax burden, given the specific nature of the operation of the association bank, will now deprive cooperative banks and local communities of their support in the framework of a strategy in which the association bank has a supporting role. Cooperative banks are based 100% on Polish capital and are not aimed at maximizing profits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the Minister whether he shares these concerns that the introduction of Amendment 7 will result in some sort of exclusion of the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u307	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question from the modern Paulina Hennig-Kloska club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, when we finish really work on this tax, just as it was already raining here from the podium, we have a very uncertain situation once again in the capital and finance market, a huge imbalance in international exchanges, which in the past led to the total closure of the inter-bank market, the freezing of capital of large banking institutions, and thus also resulted in considerable difficulties in lending Polish companies, Polish companies, who often received absolute decisions from banks to not extend credit agreements, to stop financing. And my question is this: Given that today, however, we already know that e.g. The NBP's profit will be higher than that set out in this year's Budget Act, but it would not be possible to introduce this tax for a moment, to see what the market would bring, what would it be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] will the effects of what the global capital markets bring and possibly take this decision in the following months of the year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u309	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Konrad Raczkowski to speak, because we have exhausted the list of Members who have been enrolled in the vote. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the parliamentary draft law concerning the so-called 'general'. tax on certain financial institutions, I will answer questions. The answer to Mr Paul Arndt - in terms of notification, whether the law should be notified, was addressed by the Sejm with such a request to the ECB and obtained by the Sejm. In general, the ECB submits that the tax is not linked to specific risks and the proposed tax structure may encourage financial institutions to change their risk profile by restructuring portfolios that promote more risky products. We can say that such a notification has been taken into account in some way because we have the ECB's position. Is that right? Perhaps the tax should better define risk profiles in its structure, although this does not change the form of the fact that the taxation of assets certainly reduces this risk by focusing on a party that is not subject to the form that it could otherwise be subject to. In other words, we have more protection of the State Treasury and budget revenue for this type of tax structure. With regard to the next question by the Member on Amendment 7, both the Sejm committee and the government's position... at the request of the government, this amendment was rejected, so it is irrelevant to consider it. Our position on Amendment 7 was also negative, although we are in favour of the other amendments, which is the same as in the resolution of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u311	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. That is where we concluded this item. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws (prints No 154 and 183). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Łapiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has examined a law amending the Police Act and several other laws, among others. Act on Internal Security Agency and Intelligence Agency, military services, Customs Service or Military Police. Our work was based on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which ordered several changes in July 2014 at the request of the Ombudsman and the Prosecutor General. It was a bill... The issue that we have debated is quite important, because on the one hand we are concerned with the security of citizens and the need to ensure that Poles, citizens of the Republic of Poland live safe lives in times which, as we know, are not the safest at the moment, and on the other hand there is a second value, which is also very important and which we must remember, that is the freedom of citizens, the right to privacy. The Constitutional Tribunal considered that the existing law had been incompatible with several articles of the Constitution for many years and ordered a change. That date was set by the Court for 6 February 2016 by the Court of First Instance. At that time, the Sejm could or should have changed it. In the previous term, this law was not changed, a subcommittee was set up for this purpose, but it did not complete its work. There was a senate project that could be worked on, but the committee did not complete the work on the project, so we had to lean on it, having of course less time and bearing in mind that if we did not adopt these changes in accordance with the ruling of the tribunal by 6 February, then the police would be helpless when it comes to certain important aspects in certain important areas. Maybe in a few sentences, which concerned the issues under appeal to the tribunal or what the judgment of the tribunal was about. First, the Court found that the provisions concerning the application of operational control by the ABW in the case of offences which undermine the economic basis of the State were incompatible with the Constitution. The Court considered that such a definition was too broad and should be clarified. The Court found it incompatible with the Constitution that the rules on the possibility for the services to collect data not requiring the consent of the court did not provide for an independent review of the availability of the data. That's another thing. The next thing that is not in accordance with the Constitution are provisions concerning the collection by the services of data which do not require the consent of the court in so far as they do not provide for the destruction of data which is not relevant to the conduct of the proceedings. Another thing - the provisions on operational control regarding the guarantee of immediate commission and protocol destruction of materials containing information covered by the prohibition of evidence on which the court has not repealed professional secrecy or the repeal was inadmissible are incompatible with the Constitution. Those are the main points. The Commission has appointed a subcommittee from its membership. Yesterday was the work of the subcommittee, and today was the work of the committee. What are the effects? The results are that in the Police Act and in those laws I mentioned, we execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. And so, first of all, the project introduces a follow-up control of the data collection process by the competent district court. This has not been the case so far, and this is what the tribunal has been commenting on, considering that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. Now this issue has been written down in this bill. Moreover, in the new law, this amendment states that the Head of Service is required to keep a record of the data collected and to provide the competent court with information on the information collected every 6 months. Another thing. The court shall carry out an inspection of the procedure for the collection of data by the services, may refer to the material of the proceedings. Next thing. The Minister of Justice shall report annually, on the basis of the data obtained from the courts, to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the data received by the data services. In the current law, it has not been clarified whether there are no regulations at all that would tell us what to do with telecommunication, postal and internet data that have been collected by services and which are not useful and have not been transferred to criminal proceedings. At the moment, in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, they must be destroyed. The Head of Service shall issue an order at the end of such proceedings, i.e. a description of the procedure which requires the protocolal, committee-based destruction of these data. We also introduce very important issues - the bill introduces a procedure for dealing with materials obtained during inspections, which may constitute evidence bans. This is primarily about the secret of confession and the defensive secret. Orders the heads of service immediately to destroy materials that may constitute an absolute ban on evidence. This was not the case in the existing law and the Constitutional Tribunal also ordered such provisions to be introduced. In the draft law adopted by the committee, there are also certain procedures for dealing with materials which may constitute a relative prohibition of evidence on which the court must give its consent in the proceedings. As I said earlier about these absolute bans of evidence which must be immediately destroyed, cannot be used at all, there is also a category of relative bans of evidence that can be used, but with the permission of the court. The Council of Ministers also presented its amendments to this project. Maybe I'll just mention the most important of these amendments. Here the government further clarified whether in its position the government clarified the provisions concerning the prohibition of evidence, which I had just mentioned, also narrowed down the grounds for obtaining data by the police, the Military Police, the Border Guard, the Customs Service, the records explaining the doubts that the collection of data by services which do not require the permission of the court cannot concern the control of the content of correspondence. There's been a big discussion here too, and there's been a lot of misrepresentations lately, and there's been some misconceptions. Telecommunications data that does not require court's consent, and the content of correspondence, whether online or postal or telecommunications, which was, is and will be able to be used... The services will have access to it, but only with the permission of the court. So please remember that these are two... that if the services want to get the content of someone's phone calls or text messages, the content of correspondence, whether it's mail or e-mail correspondence, they'll have to have the court's prior consent, not the subsequent one, but the preliminary consent of the court. And nothing changes here. Therefore, the fear that there will be some mass surveillance of Internet users is unfounded. As I said at the outset, this law is the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which imposed... In fact, that case should be dealt with by the previous Sejm, but he didn't make it. Surely the course of discussions on this law, and on the public, and on the committee, indicates that it is not an easy law, because, as I mentioned, we have issues of citizens' security, public security, and on the other we have issues of the right to privacy, the right to intimacy, human rights. And these two planes must meet. It's not like by increasing, I don't know, security, there won't be freedom. I agree here with what Minister Mariusz Kaminski said on the committee that in order to be a free man, one must also be a safe man. Examples of recent terrorist attacks in Paris show us that what if someone can go to a restaurant, go to the Champs Elysées, if they leave the house, is not sure if they will be safe there, whether there will be another assassination, because the services of his country, his country, do not have any instruments to ensure this safety. So, in my view, this law protects individuals' rights, citizens' rights, the right to privacy, and on the other hand it gives the services certain opportunities or certain competences primarily to - and this must also be made clear - the use of certain operational means not to all citizens, Mr X, Y, Z, but to those who committed the crime. So that this should also make it clear that it is not that this law is directed against all citizens, only these are certain mechanisms or powers that we give to the police or special services in their work to detect or prevent crimes. I want it to be clear. These are important things, because there was a message about Internet surveillance that suddenly the services would download some data that they hadn't done before. No, that's the fact that services have been allowed to download Internet data for many years, I'm just saying: Internet data, so as not to confuse it with the content of e-mails or other messages that we generate on the Internet. These records have existed for many years, and the service has been able to do so for the last eight years or even longer. On the other hand, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that there was no way to control whether the services needed these data, there was no control over what happens to them when they are useless. So we introduce in this law what the Constitutional Tribunal expected, first of all, if it turns out that the data collected by the services were unnecessary, they would be Commissionly destroyed, protocolally destroyed. Moreover, there is also judicial control over the data that the service was collecting. So that the court will have the right to see whether the services in question acted in accordance with the law. It's not like it's gonna disappear, because we're gonna make it, too, and there's laws that make the services register, create records of the data they've been downloading. So the court will then even be able to check how it was done, whether there were any violations of the law here. [[Mr President, are you an MEP or a committee rapporteur?]] Rapporteur. [[Then report to the committee. You talk like you're on behalf of the club all the time.]] Like I said... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But your marshal, or your Member, can you help me because...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u313	Mr President, please continue, bearing in mind that the Members wanted to... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u314	But if you'll excuse me if you're sitting upstairs on the stand, you'll be able to lecture me, okay? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You're still saying we're introducing. Then who's bringing it in?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u315	But, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u316	Good. I'm gonna... [[Please read in the Rules of Procedure what is your duty...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u318	But please calm down. Why are you so nervous? I can't even hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u319	But why don't you let me say something, okay? Mr President, Members are asking very much for a report from the committee meeting, and this stage of the procedure is foreseen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u320	But what's with the nerves? [[You have your opinion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u321	And we're already starting to move on. I ask you to complete your speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u322	Good. So I'm on my way to the end. The Member is very nervous and really... [[Don't give your opinion, just the committee.]] Okay, I'll wait till you calm down. You can count to 10, really, from 1 to 10, or from 10 to 1. [[And that was on the committee? That's on the committee from 1 to 10? How about one out of ten?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u323	Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u324	Good. To sum up, government amendments have been tabled during the work of the subcommittee and committee, which I have already discussed and adopted. Other amendments have also been tabled, which we have rejected, which the committee has rejected and which have been annexed as amendments of minorities, which we will be able to consider. Of course, the committee recommends adopting a draft law amending the Police Act and other laws in the wording it itself adopted and, of course, rejecting the amendments of minorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u325	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Bogdan Rzonca to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to comment on the draft Law No 154 on the amendment of the Police Act and some other laws. We do not want to live as citizens in a country that is badly protected against terrorism, rape, organized international crime which undermines the economic security of Poland, fraud mobs, corrupt officials. On the other hand, so that we can live in a country where the common criminal, the thief, the robber will be afraid to cheat, we must all, as government, Members of Parliament, opposition, take immediate work on the elimination of crime in Poland against Poles, Poland, honest companies, also citizens who come to Poland. In matters of security of Poland we must all be on the same side. And you can't play any political games here, because it's really serious. The bombings, acts of violence and terror are just outside our borders. Working together, we can protect Poles and citizens of other countries in Poland from these threats. Polish schools, streets, trains and public gatherings must be safe. Among the areas governed by this Act is the issue of operational control and access to personal data, among others. These regulations concern the Border Guard, the Police or the Internal Security Agency, where it is clarified that this concerns offences which undermine the economic basis of the Polish State. As far as types are concerned, other regulated areas... With regard to the means of secret information, there are also precise clarifications as discussed by the applicant's Member. As far as operating control is concerned, it is very clearly recorded, and never before has this operational control been possible for the longest 18 months. This is a very good and hard record. The project also includes rules and procedures concerning the verification and destruction of telecommunications, postal, online, unnecessary for the conduct of proceedings. It is very important today that criminals use the latest methods of communication. Therefore, the authorities should also use modern methods of security control. The Internet is a means of communicating criminals. It is therefore necessary to control this measure. Citizens' privacy is important, but citizens' safety is the goal of every democratic state, including the objective of the Government of Law and Justice. It should be noted that societies affected by violence and terror accept various forms of Internet control, because it is at stake to protect human life. Remember, for example. The representatives of the Islamic State contact each other mainly via the Internet. Please also note that the French Parliament has adopted a law that allows you to use information from emails and phones without the consent of the court. Those who confront privacy and security are wrong. Life is the most important thing, laments and cries after the bombings, memory marches don't bring life back, they just commemorate the crimes we want to protect ourselves from. Another area governed by the law is the issue of authorities and procedures for checking the collection of telecommunications, postal and online data. There is a great socialization of the news that will be received by the various services. At the same time, it is stated that the authorised formations after obtaining the data will be required to provide this information to a specific court and that reports will be made of this data every 6 months. The Act also regulates the handling of materials which may contain information covered by professional or notarial, solicitor or legal adviser, tax advisor, doctor, journalist. Here we have very rigid and clear records that this will all be under the supervision of the prosecutor's office, the court, also regarding the destruction of unnecessary, undesirable, sensitive data. So, ladies and gentlemen, under global crime, crossing the borders of states, terrorism or organised crime, violating the good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] citizens and the Polish people, in the face of these threats, which can unfortunately also be ours, we are asking for this project to be adopted...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u327	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u328	...because global terrorism is now easily crossing national borders. The safety of Poland and Poles is a common matter. So let's put it aside...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u329	Mr President, finish your statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u330	So let's put our own business aside. Let's put it down. Let's give this a lot of attention. I hope that everyone will understand the proposal submitted, which is intended to safeguard the interests of Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u331	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Krzysztof Breja to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u332	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let's put the business down. Let us not be interested in what Poles do on the Internet. This law seeks to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. A skeleton, such a basis is a project developed in the previous term, subject to many consultations, but it is a project that resembles a project from the previous term only in the graphics layout itself. You've put extremely dangerous solutions into it. This is especially about the possibility of wide surveillance of Polish Internet users and processing by Polish special services of Internet data. [[Oh, my God.]] Only if it wasn't, because you're saying, "Oh, my God..." [[You mislead people consciously, for the fifth time.]] ...so you wouldn't make an amendment trying to change something about this Internet data. Only under the pressure of the opposition and the Civic Platform alarm expressed at the previous session of the Sejm are you trying to powder this surveillance, by changing this project a little bit, I am about to show why it is also quite inefficient. But contrary to previous information - there have also been rumors that you want to withdraw - you do not delete the processing of Internet data by police services and authorities. Contrary to the recommendations of the Court, you also introduce functional judicial review, such follow-up control, only statistical, carried out by the District Court in Warsaw, because in addition to getting acquainted with this statistics, the court will not have any effective instruments to control the activities related to the processing of these data by the Polish services. The Civic Platform has tabled amendments - let me pass them on to your marshals - who block the idea of this surveillance. We propose, first of all, to delete what was not in the previous project, to process Internet data and to introduce a very important principle, in line with operational control, the principle of subsidiarity. We want the processing of telecommunication data, which will remain after the deletion of these unfortunate Internet data, the processing of telecommunication data, i.e. billings, BTSs, to be possible only if other means have proved ineffective or may not be useful. We do not want the first movement of an official of any service, an institution after coming to work to reach out to the phone records of the citizens of this country. The concept of Internet data is foreign to the Polish legal order. During your work at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, you were unable to explain what this Internet data is, and it gives us great concern because it is a real threat to Internet freedom. The Minister was hiding that it was no longer possible to amend the Act on the provision of services by electronic means, because it would allegedly not be the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It would, of course, be the execution of the judgment of the Court, because the Court found that the protection against interference of power was to be covered not only by the content but also by the circumstances of the merger. The one in your project, the law and justice project, is gone. There is no de facto protection of the circumstances of the merger and there is no protection of content. What's the matter? You want to connect the Polish Internet by a rigid link to the headquarters of the special forces, the police. Thousands of officers in a comfortable, comfortable way, from behind the desk, without the permission of the court, any actual control will have access to the data packages. Because the real danger, but also a bit of a testimony - a little bit very - the misunderstanding of the Internet by you is that you are trying to copy the concept of content from the Telecommunications Law, this content within the meaning of this law into the concept of Internet data. You have investigated this online data in such a way that we have not been able to investigate this subject, but it is enough to ask the first better computer scientist that there is no such a simple, physical possibility of separation, as in the Telecommunications Law, the very content from the data source, the separation of it without accessing the technical data from the data source transmitted on the Internet. You are providing surveillance on a large scale, because this rigid link to hundreds of institutions in which officers sit will flow information about all activity of Polish Internet users, not only information about the browser, operating system, but full data packages will flow. I mean, if it's like... I don't know, Minister, if you know, but most of the mail servers keep the data in one directory, they don't extract the header and the message. The same is true of the Facebook portal. There's no way to extract any content. It's one data source, what he was looking at. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Internet user on Facebook, which profiles he searched, what and in which mode he published. The same is true of Google's search history. You want to provide such a fast, up-to-date vending machine for service officers to read this data.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u333	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u334	I'm almost done, two sentences. One of the netizens asked me if we would now use Neostrada or Pisostrada. I reassured him because I assured him that the amendments of the Civic Platform would certainly be supported by Members of Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, speaking on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on amending the Police Act and some other laws. The project mentioned ultimately changes the provisions of several laws concerning different services. The need for its adoption, as has already been said here, stems from the future requirements laid down in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, almost 1.5 years ago in its ruling, criticised the entire set of provisions of the Act in force so far, indicating a number of non-compliances with the Constitution and shortcomings resulting either in the lack of adequate protection of our confidential data, or in the possibility of obtaining the data, including the so-called "unacceptable, excessive and uncontrolled" data, duly obtained. operational objectives which could lead to abuse by different services. The first-reading version of the amendment was, in fact, largely a reproduction of a draft of Senators of the Civic Platform, which, in the opinion of some politicians, lawyers, industry organisations, analysts and NGOs, did not meet the requirements of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling in principle. Thus, unfortunately, through this duplication of some of the solutions also based on it, the current government submission raised a number of doubts about the implementation of the constitutionalisation recommendations of the law. All of these shortcomings and shortcomings were pointed out by us and by the various Members of this tribune at the occasion of the presentation of our club or the positions of other clubs at the first reading of this project. In addition, the proposed project raised a number of controversy among organisations, associations and institutions dealing with civil rights, constitutional rights, protection of personal data, etc. As a result of this criticism, the government decided to make significant adjustments following public consultation, which brought this proposal closer to the principle of feasibility of recommendations in terms of its constitutionality. This item should mention, for example, the definition and clarification of certain concepts, the obligation of the Chief of Police to keep a register of central applications and regulations concerning the operational control of police authorities, the need to destroy the data collected and, in my view, the clear indication that, in the case of data obtained, their use cannot concern the content of correspondence. As far as possible with Internet data, there are some doubts here, and we could really think about it. These changes, contained in the five packages notified by the government and adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, indicated, on the one hand, that in the first version of the draft law we actually dealt with a number of flawed provisions, possibly indefinables, which could have had various adverse consequences, and, on the other hand, by taking into account some of the requests made, some of these shortcomings have been eliminated, leading the revision towards the implementation of the Court's recommendations. Unfortunately, the pace of work - which is also the result, it must be made clear here, from the very important omissions that have taken place in this area in the previous Parliament - as well as the different position of the government party - that is quite important - on most of the amendments or requests made at the subcommittee meeting did not allow for the full repair of this amendment, so as to undisputedly eliminate the deficiencies previously identified and the gaps that may raise doubts. on the security and security of our online data. Here we can mention various things, some of which have been mentioned, but for example to maintain an optional way of judicial review of the provision of these data in the context of a follow-up check - the court may, but it does not have to - not to eliminate, for example, the prosecutor from access to the data to be verified in our opinion by the court on the validity of their use in a procedural aspect. Also, it was not possible to clearly define this constantly improved wording of Internet data. It has not been reduced and still remains in its extended format a catalogue of situations where individual services can reach for telecommunications and internet data. It was also not decided to inform those who were subject to data collection activities as soon as these operational activities were completed and often before they were cleared of suspicion. In this situation, despite the fact that we recognise that the adjustments made by the government are going in the right direction, the final draft in the version that we are dealing with, although to a lesser extent, still raises some reservations about the elements that can be used in a way that violates privacy. Consequently, we cannot support it in its present form, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because this would be contrary to our vision of a balance between security and freedom. However, we hope that the government will, perhaps without time pressure, recognise the need for further amendment, which will make the bill satisfactory for all parties except criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are well aware of the need to adopt this law. There's a clear verdict. The Constitutional Tribunal. If you don't take her in, the servants will have their hands tied. Nor do we envy the situation, for one and a half years of omissions make it necessary for us to proceed at such a rate over this law. As I said at my first reading, we believe that this project does not meet our expectations. He is bad, although the changes proposed by the ministers improve this project are going in a better direction. We are proposing three more amendments to this project, which we believe will come up against these protests and the judgment of the Constitutional Court. The first amendment amends the Article. 8 of this law, and he refers to the article. 18 Act on the provision of services by electronic means. It aims to clarify the concept of what Internet data can be downloaded by the services. I understand that the state's position is clear when it comes to online data. We are opposed to this, but it is crucial in this case to clarify what data is involved and what is the scope of the control carried out by the services. The facts are now that the services have access to Internet data. The point is to clarify this very precisely and put it under control. The second block of amendments, which we want to propose to this law and to the successive laws which involve it, concerns the extension of judicial control over the collection of telecommunications and postal data by introducing a parallel control by district courts. The audit proposed by the applicants is to consist in a follow-up inspection after half a year. We propose that the services keep the court informed of the collection, of the initiation of such a procedure. The court would be able to address this on an ongoing basis, not only after six months. It is extremely important, and this is not in this draft law, that our amendment introduces an obligation to destroy the telecommunications and postal data which the court has questioned. The third block of amendments that we are proposing is to increase the fuller protection of the professional secrecy of a journalist, a mediator. Our amendment imposes an obligation on the police and other services to destroy operational control materials that contain the secrets set out in Article. 178a and Art. 180 § 3 Code of Criminal Procedure. We also want to remove the mediation of the prosecutor between the court and the chief of staff from the proposed bill. We believe that, in particular, in the context of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, this mediation gives the services, and the Public Prosecutor's Office too much opportunity. We believe that these amendments should be accepted. The laws in this form, which is proposed now, unfortunately, cannot be supported. We believe that it is incompatible with the public interest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u339	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You have one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Indeed, it is not unfortunate to proceed on this bill because it is under pressure of time, and we already know from experience that haste does not serve a good law, but this is the situation, we can do nothing. We are also aware that if this law does not function, we will not fulfil the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, but will also lead to the situation in which the current rules are in place, which allow for much further surveillance. I think that the social expectation is that, of course, we are aware of what some police and services are supposed to do, because there is a threat of terrorism, there is, of course, crime, that we must take care of it - and the voices that we are now conveying are the voices of people who are concerned - that this control should not go too far. Therefore, as Modern, we are trying to make such amendments that precisely specify what kind of information should be provided, in what form, and indeed expand the scope of judicial review a little bit, because I believe that there are emergency situations, kidnapping cases, terrorist threats when the services cannot wait for a court order. But it may be that, in parallel with such an action, i.e. data collection, the service may go to court, and then, after some time, after two or three days, the court may refer whether it was justified or not. That's why we're in this direction. They're on their way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll make an additional amendment that we agreed on in committee. She's from another block, which is why I'm making her separate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u341	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u342	As Mr Szłapka said, unfortunately we are not fully satisfied, so we will not support this draft law at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! As he approached the submitted matter, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party carefully and diligently examined both the draft by Members of the Law and Justice and the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Already from the preliminary analysis of the submission, it appears that, yes, amendments to the Police Act should be made. This was expressed both by the Senate in its previous term of office and by the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. However, it must not be forgotten that the date of the expiry of the current rules, which are being amended, was known both to the parliament of the past term and to the then opposition which formed the parliamentary majority in the 8th term of the Sejm and, above all, to the government. I do not say these words in any way malicious or pinchy, but simply recall the dry facts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We touch particularly important and extremely sensitive matter. Draft amendments to the so-called laws Circuit police require particular care in terms of clarity and legislative correctness. The extraordinary subcommittee, which was called upon to consider the parliamentary project for several hours, and the committee sitting today did not explain a whole range of doubts about the essential nature of the project. We have not heard the position of the heads of special services on the need and substance of the proposed changes or finally the justification for which the services and to what extent the powers to use the law are to be useful. A reasonable legislator cannot merely rely on the oral assurances of a government party that a normative act needs to be amended without in-depth knowledge, analysis or, finally, conviction of the need and necessity to make such a change. High Seym! On 13 January 2016, i.e. on the day of the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the Marshal of the Sejm provided the position of the Council of Ministers concerning printing No 154, together with the opinions and positions of other authorities of the State, which I will not exchange due to lack of time. This is a very strange and extremely disturbing procedure, because, alongside many other works at the present meeting of the Sejm, they simply could not be absorbed, not to mention the assessment of the content of the material. If I were to refer here to the substantive assessment of the committee's report and the position of the Council of Ministers, I would deny myself what I will not do. The Member who raises his hand in favour of adopting or rejecting any draft normative act should have the knowledge he is voting on, but above all, be absolutely convinced of it. The Polish People's Party will be a constructive but intelligent opposition. We regret that it has been so long since the constitution of the current government that, knowing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and its deadlines, it is urgent that it is one of the first to submit a draft amending the Police Act and some other laws, realizing the consequences of the lack of amendment. Above all, however, the government should give parliamentarians time to work fairly, albeit calmly. However, this was not the case, and this was the basis for the fact that my club, the club of the Polish People's Party, as responsible for the quality of the law, would vote against the committee's report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. 35 Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. One minute, please. Time discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members! Too often I have accompanied a man in a total fall in the most tragic experiences of life being procurated or coerced by evil people, organized crime, whether in prostitution, trafficking in another man, or forcing him to behave as a suicidal person. Therefore, Minister, my question is in this direction. Is it really justified to deprive the services of the tools referred to in the proposed law when there is trafficking in human beings when there is a situation in which a girl or a boy is forced or encouraged to commit suicide by excessive presence on the Internet? Are we in this situation completely vulnerable to the hat, to stalking, to everything that also, dear Members and Members, can touch you in everyday life? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u348	High Izbo! It is difficult to agree with the solutions proposed by applicants, Members of the Law and Justice, and even more difficult to agree with your concern for the security of Poles, which is only an excuse to limit privacy, freedom, the right to intimacy, which is protected by the Constitution. You provide services with all tools of direct access to data acquisition and processing, our data, data of Poles, including information about private correspondence or online activity. In the project, you assume a review of the court after the fact, and six months after obtaining all the data, it may also be optional. Why does Law and Justice assume such a low level of control of whether Poles will be controlled legally and legally? What's that supposed to do? Humility and, above all, listening to citizens are the principles that we will follow - said Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the exposé. It's nice-sounding words, just thrown into the ether, because it's definitely not real. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project directly affects citizens' rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u350	Why, then? , within the framework of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u351	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u352	...your good change will not be consulted...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u353	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u354	...with non-governmental organizations? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u355	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law will not increase the safety of Poles, but will increase the reluctance to a oppressive state gagging the lips of citizens. First of all, because the project extends its ability to access Internet data through services in a very imprecise way. Moreover, the provision of free data may lead to a negative revolution in the online services market. In the case of micro and small businesses, it will be a considerable expense. The consequence may be a lack of willingness to take business initiatives on the Internet. So the question arises as to whether the costs of developing and providing services with widely understood Internet data are to be transferred to Internet service providers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If it is accepted that one of the main objectives of the Act is to increase the security of citizens, why it mainly includes surveillance and control of people using traditional networks, rather than ensuring proper control of the TOR network in which their actions hide the criminal environment, which prevents the analysis of network traffic by so-called. Onion routing? Where does the Act standardise the prevention of threats in the TOR network? Are applicants aware that it is not the ordinary people who use the Internet that are a threat, but most often those who want to hide their identity in it? Do applicants know that wanting to buy weapons, drugs, harmful software or stolen card data, the easiest and safest thing for criminals is to do it on the TOR network, which the law does not mention? Why is the law not exhaustively standardizing these issues? Are these shortcomings the result of a haste in creating it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question in principle to Minister Wąsik, who at first reading informed us that in principle this law on police does not introduce any new regulations, that Internet surveillance is already permitted under current regulations. You pointed out an art here. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Act on the provision of services by electronic means, indicating that it is so-called. dispersal rating. Minister! Nothing more vicious. This is an obligation introduced by the law for the service provider, an obligation to make these data available. And what provisions of the pragmatic laws on services standard the powers of these services to apply for this data? Because it's not the same. If this is just a basis for accessing Internet data, then I have another question for the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In that case, Internet surveillance has already been in place since 2002. And if so, please tell me how much of this data has been downloaded every year...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u362	...and by what service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u363	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! On December 16th, I asked Prime Minister Szydło if Internet censorship, Internet surveillance, was foreseen. Well, today we have this situation when we learn that it will be. I would like to ask again: Are the Polish parliamentarians who are in opposition under surveillance? Please answer this question in writing. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that your thinking about safety involves some horrible corrupt society, which is helpless, is some sort of infantile one, and that the state that you want to control us is some kind of generous, wise and foresightful one. The difference between security and freedom is that we need freedom in a democratic country first and foremost. Security is the result of freedom, not the other way around. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Nowak, Kowalski, Wiśniewski - each of us has a face and a resume. Each of us likes and values our freedom online. The rights of Nowak, Wiśniewski and Kowalski are defended by the General Data Protection Officer, as well as by the Ombudsman. Tell me, Minister, what do they think of this law, these two authorities of the state? Kowalski, Nowak and Wiśniewski are also defending the European Union with their standards of freedom, which you are so eager to pursue. You want to dialogue with the Commissioners of the European Union on this issue. Please state whether the BAS position stresses that the contested law is incompatible with European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The major disadvantage of this project is the low level of control of what we allow the services. And the question is, how can the service be in violation of... Is it legal and necessary for them to violate our citizens' freedom? These actions should, as a rule, be subject to judicial review. That's what I was talking about here at second reading. Unfortunately, judicial review, as has been said here, can only be post factum. Knowing the number of cases, these cases, as well as the budget of the court, we can assume that she will, if she is at all, because this is optional... Will it be reliable and will the service be supervised at all? I ask you, Minister, how will the services be controlled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicant: Why does the designer in the framework of operational control allow the acquisition without the permission of the court by the police and other services of content of conversations and correspondence or other data contained in computer data carriers? The designer provides that the activities of obtaining data under Article are to be carried out. 20c, i.e. e.g. by means of a telecommunications network based on agreements concluded with an operator or an electronic service provider, they will not require the consent of the court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform. [[He'll be right there.]] There's no envoy. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform. We will reverse the order because the Member is already on the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister during the tour during the election campaign, but also during the exposé, repeatedly stressed that she would listen to Poles. After reading the provisions of this law, it seems that it was not about listening, it was about listening to Poles. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Bullshit.]] And it is this law that is intended to ensure additional impunity, as well as the lack of knowledge of the persons concerned. So I have two questions: Why didn't the projector foresee any legal consequences for officers who were unduly seeking telecommunications data? Second question: Why didn't you take into account in the draft procedure requiring people to be informed after the end of the operational control that their data had been collected? While the draft provides that the court's consent will still be required to carry out operational operations, the person to whom these actions will be taken may never know. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u373	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u374	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! The proposal of this law significantly restricts the rights of Poles to privacy, opens the door to surveillance, tracking and peeping of Poles on the Internet, and this is all because, as the Member of Law and Justice said, the Internet is a place of communication of criminals. It happens that there are criminals on the streets, too, but that's no reason to stop and search every honest citizen. [[You didn't understand.]] In this project You have pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, that the services can reach for data to prevent, combat, detect or obtain and consolidate evidence of crimes either to save lives or human health or to support search or rescue activities, but these criteria are very broad, because the analysis of traffic on social networks that allow file sharing can, after all, be regarded as crime prevention and verification of user identity [[♪ The bell ♪]] Social networks...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u375	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u376	...for caring for their health, because maybe they've been in it too long. Therefore, the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u377	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u378	...do you not think that it would be appropriate to specify exactly in which cases the service can reach for such data? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u379	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to address my question to the Members of the applicants. Don't you think that the law should clarify the term "Internet data"? Unfortunately, there are legitimate concerns that Internet data can be associated with e-mails, for example. There would then be a legitimate concern that the services would require the online content of Internet communications from operators on the pretext of obtaining Internet data. This would be a ruthless breach that the police and the services, in order to be able to read private correspondence, must obtain the court's consent. I ask you very warmly to answer this important question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u382	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It was supposed to be a good change, it was supposed to be fair, according to the law, but it comes out that according to the law of law and justice. [[But it's on the carguel.]] The draft states that, in the context of the review, the court may read the material justifying the access to the police and other services of telecommunications, postal and online data - and well, very well - but why cannot the court read the results with regard to this check? I therefore ask the applicants: Why did you prohibit the court from reaching out to the information which has been collected in the course of the actions undertaken? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u384	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Ministry of Digitalization plans to build an e-state, information society, IT. How are you gonna do that? The solutions adopted in the Act will lead to a total loss of confidence for citizens and will result in a complete suspension of the development of state information. Your proposals violate the constitution, EU law, judgments of the Court of Justice, the right to privacy, the secrecy of correspondence, the right to defence. Moreover, I ask you, almost all the environments that could have commented on this issue have been negative: the Office for Sejm Analysis, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, the Centre for Research and Studies of Legislative Lawyers of the National Council of Legal Counsels, the Supreme Bar Council, the Council for Digitisation. You held a debate on Monday and, of course, the entire Digital Council has been negative, and I don't understand why you want to hold any debates, since you don't even have one in advance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna make that argument...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u385	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u386	...in consideration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u387	Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u388	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Court of First Instance will only be able to inform the audited service of the results of the checks, but will not be able to order the destruction of the data collected. Question to the Members of the applicant: Why does the project not provide for an obligation to destroy data collected illegally in the case of a negative assessment of the activity of the authorised authority? And the next question. With regard to CBA, ABW and SKW, the provisions provide that the court may, even after the expiry of the specified periods, issue further provisions for the extension of operational control for successive periods, none of which may last for more than 12 months. Therefore, the designer has not established a maximum period of operational control carried out by the services mentioned above. Question to the Members of the applicant: Why the project does not specify the maximum period of operational control by [[♪ The bell ♪]] CBA, ABW and SKW? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The low level of control over the use of operational techniques is actually the main theme of the proposed amendment. This amendment should exhaust the content of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment and regulate the use of increasingly modern operational techniques. I want to ask you about the regulations, and basically the lack of them, regarding the use of spyware services in operational operations by installing a trojan in the surveillance computer system, which is kind of enslaved, transforms this computer into an operating tool for observing, eavesdropping and recording the observed man. After the installation, that's what it looks like. I want to ask... Of course, it is undoubtedly beneficial software, it is modern and should be used. Why can't it be used without court supervision? 'Cause of course, I can't imagine, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that such techniques can be applied without the supervision of the court. Are you even going to use this technique? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u391	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Do you not think that the cost of sharing data should rest on the authorities asking for this information? The project provides that the cost of sharing data will rest on companies, i.e. de facto on customers. Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u393	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed rules do not guarantee that the collection and processing of online data will be a subsidiary means of obtaining information or evidence. This creates the possibility to use this data not only in situations where other measures prove ineffective, but also when it is simply the easiest solution, which really means the freedom to use them - without legitimate grounds, without restrictions. So I have a question: are these proposals not contrary to the principle of proportionality that the Constitution is talking about? Will there not be abuses in their application and therefore violations of human rights and freedoms? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u395	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u396	Dear Marshal, Minister! I have a question about the defense secret, which is, to put it simply, the mystery of conversation between the citizen and his defender. In the proposed bill, it is significantly weakened. It is a principle that both the prosecutor and the defender concerned are entitled to a complaint against the decision of the court authorising the release from defence secrecy. Law and Justice proposes that, at the stage of operations and discernment, the defender be deprived of such powers. In fact, such a right is lost by the citizen whom the defender represents. I would stress that this proposal is contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014. So what is the justification for such strong interference in the mystery and privacy of the conversations between the citizen and the defender, during which, as we know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] are often sensitive and personal information transmitted? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u397	Thank you, sir. Mr Adam Karol... No, I'm sorry, Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u398	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A large part of the Polish society remembers the years 2005 and 2007 and the temptation of PiS for the sovereignty of special services, the consent to illegal activities, the far-reaching interference in civil liberties and the approval of the so-called. leaks of operational material to the media. Therefore, Poles, we here today, in this Chamber, have great doubts about the intention of amending the law, especially those concerning Internet surveillance, or the lack of record regarding the supervision of the information obtained, personal data. The CBA is the only service, Minister, who has a statutory proxy. control of the processing of personal data. It is - and I hope, Minister, that it will continue to be - independent in its activities, verifying that this process is in accordance with the provisions of the CBA Act. I would add that he reports annually to the Prime Minister or to the Prime Minister, to the Chief Data Protection Officer and to the Parliamentary Committees. I have a question for applicants: Why doesn't the project provide for the creation, at internal level, of the police and other services they run [[♪ The bell ♪]] operational controls and obtaining data, the positions of an independent agent for the operation. Personal data protection? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u399	Thank you, sir. And now Mr Adam Karol, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u400	Adam Korol, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that instead of the existing written route, online data can be made available electronically without the participation of employees of companies providing Internet services? It is sufficient that this possibility is provided for in the agreement, e.g. With the police chief. Aren't you afraid that the creation of constant links to the transmission of Internet data will lead to the general acquisition of information about the activities and interests of Polish Internet users? The number of questions will certainly increase sharply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u401	Thank you very much. It was Mr Adam Korol. I'm so sorry. Now Mrs Margaret Janyska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rapporteur, who was here today actually as a representative of the applicants or making a statement on behalf of the club, said that you were carrying out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, so I think that both the club and the government and the rapporteur. I have a question: What is the reason for this project to go beyond the judgment and beyond the orders of the Constitutional Tribunal? Because what else is the mandate in the project to undefined collection and processing of Internet data, and thus the introduction of automation... Automatism similar to phone records, except that phone records don't get content. Of course, proceedings are needed to obtain content. Expanding this to the prevention stage will make it absolutely arbitrary. With this discretion, with such an assessment of the situation, we had a bit to do today in committee, because when we asked the Minister what is different from prevention and what is a broader concept and what is a narrower concept, the Minister said that prevention is a narrower concept. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't know if that's true, but it indicates that the evaluation can be individual and depends not on the substantive preparation and will of the rule of law, but on personality...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u403	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u404	...and personal preferences in the proceedings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u405	Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I even assume good faith that the purpose of this regulation is to ensure the safety of Poles, but it seems to me and I express my concerns that this project in fact reduces safety and does not increase, because let's imagine that it opens up thousands of officers, employees of companies operating on the Internet to this. In the absence of pre-control and only statistical follow-up, it opens the way to data, and this sensitive data, which at the moment have the highest value, also commercial. It is no secret that at the moment information is the most valuable good that you trade legally and illegally. You have to have a strong faith in the crystal integrity of those thousands of people who will have access to believe that they will not be tempted to trade these data, whether for purely commercial purposes, or [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even criminals. Who's gonna follow...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u407	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u408	...trackers, eavesdroppers? [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki turns off the microphone by Gabriela Lenartowicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u409	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The longer this solution consults on Internet data, it really does become oak hair. I think all I'm going to say right now is, Minister, please, because you don't know what you're doing, and I'm begging you to support the Civic Platform's amendments. Questions. For the fifth time in the previous sitting we asked - also Minister Wąsik, say: How will you technically decode content from the data package? Who's gonna do it? In the optimistic variant, the employee of the company that provides the service. In a realistic way, that's for sure, you'll get a package - ABW, CBA, police authorities - and you'll force officers to dig into this online data package, and you'll read it. How do you technically want to solve this? What is content to you? Will you also apply for such packages abroad? If such questions are sent to Facebook by other operators, it will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] one great embarrassment of Poland. This is amazing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's a serious subject, there's nothing to laugh about all the time. They laugh all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u411	Thank you. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question asked by my previous speaker is, in fact, fundamental because in a situation where, under the pressure of the opposition, the pressure of the public, however, have decided to introduce a certain amendment to the bill, a correction which, I will remind you, is to consist in the fact that the Internet data will not contain the content of the message, there is a really valid question: At what stage will this content be separated from the other data? Will the content be separated from the trader, or will it be separated from the special service? [[Who's gonna decide? Yes, sir.]] We are very afraid that the way in which the data is provided, i.e. The development of telecommunications infrastructure, the creation of fixed links between services and telecommunications companies, will lead to a flood of services with these data. We are wondering who will actually unpack these Internet packages. We're asking for an answer. Second thing. You're bragging about the bill introducing judicial review of online data. I would like to ask: Are the courts [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are you prepared for this check? Why doesn't the bill provide for additional staff resources and additional solutions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u413	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u414	...in the preparation of the courts? [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal Ryszard Terlecki shuts down Mr Mark Wójcik's microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u415	Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the draft law on Police, the amendment of the law on Police, arouses great interest in a large part of Polish society, especially Internet users. These records, which appeared in this project, which was not in the project examined in the previous term of the Sejm, are of great surprise and concern. The concept of Internet data to which this draft law operates is a completely unsharp concept. This is pointed out not only by the Members of the opposition, Minister, but also by IT experts whose opinions have been received by the committee. It is a pity that these opinions have not been heard and have not been taken into account in the work at first reading. I hope that perhaps now the Members of the applicant would like to reach out to them, and this is very important, because this draft law is about to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It should therefore be constitutionally compatible after its adoption. Meanwhile, in an opinion sent to the committee, to the marshal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who went to the committee, writes that the bill in this form...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u417	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u418	...is incompatible with Article. 30, 47, 49, 51 of the Constitution of the Republic of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u419	Thank you very much, sir. [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki shuts down Mr Jan Grabc's microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u420	... The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Janek, like a pharmacy, like a pharmacy...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u421	Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Democracy is fine. Really? Let me remind you: the Constitutional Tribunal, the Human Resources Act in the media, and now, under the pretext of protecting our security, you want to totally monitor citizens... [[No!]] ...to obtain in any way data that you do not know for what purpose you will use. Internet surveillance through the service, the police, and fictitious court custody... [[That's not true.]] ...it must cause concern for our citizens and wake them up. But you don't accept that and you're joking about it, it looks really bad. [[That's not true.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, this is a sad picture of your understanding of democracy. Do you really still think democracy in Poland is okay? Let me tell you this: I am touched by your concern for me to be safe, but I prefer to be free. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased with the concern of the Members of the Civic Platform for civil liberties, although I doubt that it is sincere, because you have just revealed the issue of surveillance, listening to journalists, politicians, even the families of these journalists. [[There's no I.D. yet, and nothing's happened to the D.A. yet, I guess.]] And if, ladies and gentlemen, with such concern you lean on it, first hit your breasts, because you under ACTA's coat wanted to put a muzzle on the citizens, but it didn't work. [[It's gonna be formalized.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, as I have heard about Mr Krzysztof Brejza's appeal to support the amendments tabled by the Platform, I also have a question: are these amendments tabled by the Platform or by the Special Services? [[Really, that's a question for the Chief of Special Forces.]] Because we just found out that Mr. Brejza was making interpellations written by counterintelligence officers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] That's not bullshit. That's what's been revealed on the service committee. [[Voice from the room: Councilman PiS Councillor of Special Forces.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u425	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u426	I have a question: are these the amendments of the Civic Platform, or are these amendments written by the special forces that control you? Thank you very much. [[This is the method of discussion. The gomula would love that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u427	Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to ask you, ministers: If, after 6 February this year, the new law had not entered into force, would the police and special forces' work be paralyzed? In view of the fact that this year we have two important events in Poland of a European or global scale, the NATO Summit and the World Youth Day, would we give a guarantee during the organisation of these two important events of full security for all of their participants if this law did not enter into force? And finally famous Internet data. High Izbo, how have other countries in the European Union or even the United States dealt with this topic of Internet data? How these issues have been addressed in countries where concern for the level of security of citizens is very high and should be a model for others [[♪ The bell ♪]] To be followed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u429	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister will now speak... [[Ad vocem to Mr Suski. There was a very serious breach...]] Did he change his name? [[He mentioned the name of the Member.]] Please, in corrigendum mode. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u430	Mr. Suski mentioned my name by accusing me of something that before, also by accident, the media of PiS-ovsky tried to accuse me of some negative behavior. [[Voice from the room: What are the PiS media?]] I will say this: there is no more transparent means of parliamentary work, which is the parliamentary interpellation, and every Member himself in the electronic system creates such interpellation, and you, as a Member, should know that. If there are leaks fired today e.g. On my subject, it's probably a coincidence that the head of the Counterintelligence Service is a Councilman of Law and Justice, an ex-publicist of the Independent... [[Ooh!]] ...and it also goes towards those media. These are your fights. This is your fight, this is the first step in making throwbacks during the debate to compromise with the politicized services of Members of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u431	Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the positions of the clubs that have been presented here. Thank you so much for the questions. I would very much like to thank those Members who wanted to read the bill and understand its content. It's very valuable. From what you have said, you can conclude that you are familiar with this problem. But part of the state, I get the impression, either she didn't read the bill, or she just read the bill that the Civil Platform in the Senate proposed in the last term, and I'm very concerned about it. Well, I would like to stress to those of you who asked why this law was intended to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Court which came in 2014. This is an important sentence which ordered the government to verify certain competences of the services. It's been 18 months. Some of you from the Civic Platform knew this very well. There was time, there were possibilities. I have here a letter, which Mr Biernacki, concerned about the poor progress of his work on the bill, addresses to Mr Wójcik, who was the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Home Affairs, and was also the head of the subcommittee... [[Voice from the room: On Facebook still let him answer...]] ...who was supposed to take care of it. I'm going to quote here a piece of this magazine. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Are we discussing a letter or a bill? What are we working on? Mr. Marshal...]] I would like to ask the President to express his concern about not calling an emergency subcommittee meeting to consider the Senate draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws which entered the Sejm on 29 July. The fact that you say that this is a project written on your knee, that it is being processed too quickly, that it is perhaps too narrowly consulted socially, is the fault of the fact that in the last term of office, among others. by Mr Wójcik, the Sejm did not deal with this because the subcommittee was not called once. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Answer the questions.]] I answer the questions about what this project is for and why we're running it so fast, and that's the answer to the question. [[I wonder why those questions were even...]] In your questions there was still concern about the so-called. Internet data. I would like to stress that Internet data is data which at the moment services collect under another law, the Act on the provision of services by electronic means. [[There's no such thing as Internet data.]] [[Don't tell me it's not true.]] This law was adopted in 2002. Since 2002, it has been in operation and is the legal basis, specifically Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of this law, for the collection of all necessary data services for the purposes of proceedings, various procedures - preparatory, operational, control, verification e.g. admission to state secrecy, review proceedings. There are currently no restrictions on access to online data. None. [[That's not true.]] There's no court control, no social control over it. I'll tell you what. You ask what scale it is. I'll tell you, today I got word that the police spend 60,000 a year on average. That kind of question, just the police. For the last eight years, she's been asking about the so-called. Internet data, because we give the definition of Internet data. [[There's no such thing as Internet data.]] Internet data... [[It's all about electronics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u433	Don't disturb me, sir. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Internet data is very precise in our bill. These are data from the Act on the provision of services by electronic means contained in the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1.5. We say the same thing about telecommunications data, and we refer to telecom law. That's what we say about postal data, and we refer to Postal Law. This is a very precise definition of online data. We stress that there is no doubt that Internet data can never be the content of correspondence. The content of correspondence is operational control and only with the consent of the court. In order to ensure that there is no doubt, this record was written to calm certain emotions caused by irresponsible statements. [[Applause]] Let me put it this way, you have tabled an amendment that will make Internet data fall out of service laws. What will the consequences be? The services will still be able to download the same data. [[No, that's not true.]] Don't disturb me, sir. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: However, these data will not be controlled... [[He's not telling the truth.]] ...the kind that the Constitutional Tribunal has ordered to introduce against data that are taken from the service without the consent of the court. The Court has ordered the establishment of an inspection body. Now yes, if we accept the amendment tabled by Mr Brieza, then it will not be necessary to keep a record of the data collected, it will not be necessary to transfer this register to the court. [[There will be no data.]] There will be no review by the district court of the correctness of the collection of these data and of the validity. There's not gonna be another thing, two actually. There will be no social control, because the bill says that information about data... [[There will be no data.]] ...which takes up the service, then the Minister of Justice will have to present to the Sejm what data has been collected from the service and for what. If we delete, we will accept the amendment by Mr Breiza, then there will be no such obligation. And one more thing. The Court has ordered the legislators to introduce a provision which requires the destruction of data which are not useful for preparatory proceedings to criminal proceedings if there is no evidence of criminal offences. If we accept Mr Breja's amendment, then there will be no need for destruction. [[Because there will be no data.]] And so we're going to destroy the same way that we're going to destroy phone records and other data that aren't going to be used... [[But it also excludes data creation.]] ...through the services for criminal proceedings. [[You're abusing words.]] I would like to tell you that there are people in the Civic Platform who understand this. I would very much like to thank you from the Modern and Kukiz Club for really understanding the contents of these laws. [[Please do not judge the level of conscience of Members.]] I agree that you may have different opinions that you may think differently, that you may say that the control is too small or that it should be conducted differently, but I understand that you have read it and you know what you're talking about. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: But we encourage you to answer questions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't disturb the Minister. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: ...most of your questions... You don't have a voice right now. [[Because he doesn't provide information, he judges Members.]] Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: ...doesn't refer to the substance of things. I wanted to say yes. [[Which one?]] Mrs Wielichowska... [[It's jammed.]] ...she said it's not good that the court's review takes place after the fact. It's exactly the same as the Senate project that called in the PO. [[Well, that's good.]] I would like to say that this solution is being copied. I think... So it was good then, and now it's bad, I get it. [[And where did you hear...]] I would like to say that we have consulted NGOs. The government's position, which was adopted, was precisely the result of this public consultation. Let me put it this way, all the sensible remarks and the ones we could accept, we accepted. We will lean on the amendments you have tabled today. From what I've heard, of course I'd like to see it, read it carefully, it seems there's a room for discussion here. Some of them are valuable and we will be able to talk about them, perhaps accept them. But I cannot agree to such arguments that result from ignorance, from not reading the contents of the bill. I would like to stress: this law in no way entitles anyone to obtain the content of correspondence without the consent of the court. That needs to be said clearly and clearly. Mr Brejza... [[Then how do you want to decode the data package?]] ...talking about some stream that's going to flow. I would like to say that there is not a single new provision in this respect, and there is not a single new word in this provision that differs from those of the Civic Platform project from the previous term. [[But we didn't have Internet data.]] Here's what I'm gonna say. Don't disturb me, sir. Minister, are you done? Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: No, no. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I've suspended my voice, Marshal. I'll tell you what, of course, you can talk about some kind of decoding of data, some kind of stream that was flowing, but let's not make the services count on the counts. We're in the 21st century. There must be some technical solutions... [[So who's gonna choose the technical data from the package?]] ...because we're in the 21st century. On the other hand, the project envisages that absolutely all of these solutions will be accountable. It's settled. Countable in the register. [[We don't believe in accounting, you know what I mean.]] And you'll be able to find out what data they've been taking from the service for and for what purpose. I would like to tell the person, I think it was Mr Myrch... [[Yes?]] ...who asked how the defense attorney's secret would be lifted, that it would not be repealed. The proposal does not provide for such a situation to be lifted. [[What if it isn't?]] This is an absolute prohibition of evidence. If such information is obtained in the course of the operational control of the service, it is to be destroyed immediately. There is no legal possibility of abdicating confessional and defence secrets. [[Applause]] [[That's what art is about. 15?]] Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude - because I have tried to write down most of your questions, unfortunately some of them were just manifestos, there were no questions - I will say yes. [[Voice from the room: There was a letter from Minister Biernacki.]] We've got two weeks to do this project. [[Voice from the room: Only at night...]] One of your fellow Members in the committee said: This is not a race against time. And I will say this: This is a race against time, because if we do not accept this project, then on February 7th, our services, the police and our services, will have neither eyes nor ears. [[Accept the amendments. It's gonna be okay.]] I ask you to accept this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Mr... [[Ad vocem, I've been mentioned several times.]] No, no, Mr Marek Wójcik, as corrected. The Member has already taken advantage of the opportunity to straighten up the debate from the jury. [[No, but I was in my second speech again!]] No, but you've already said everything you had to say. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You gotta be kidding me, Marshal.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u434	Minister, in the previous term of office, we prepared a project that was socially consulted, not on Internet data, was the work of the previous parliament. You could have taken over this project in November and sent it to the High House, but you preferred to prepare your own, so you could dig into the privacy of the citizens' personal data, to interfere with the freedom of Internet users. [[Voice from the room: How many times are we going to listen to this?]] Minister, you've been running through the High House for two days, and you're showing a document that's supposed to be some sort of receipt on me, right? If an adult man does something like this, it's scary to think what he's gonna do when he gets the toys under that bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u435	Thank you very much. [[May I, Marshal?]] [[But the name of the person who asked the question.]] And the Minister? Please, but briefly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u436	Here's what I'm gonna say. I have indeed looked at the Seym documents, how you have tried, and I will say this: I have read it and the Panoptykon Foundation stated in the work of the Senate committee that it is very desirable to include data so-called. Internet, data about which the Act on the provision of services by electronic means, as these data should be treated as telecommunication data and postal data. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Brejza, as corrected, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u438	Thank you very much, Marshal, for maintaining this good habit. Minister, you have left out our very important amendment, precisely to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 the Act on the provision of services by electronic means, which this 2002 relic, this crevice, is to clog. You guys are gonna make a flow out of this rift. Besides, you were suggesting that we were introducing Internet data as a platform. Dear God, we haven't entered any Internet data, and I'm asking you to answer me. I'm on your profile, I've turned on flight mode just in case I do: I like it! Or he sent you a message, a data package is being sent. Answer me, for the sixth time, how and who physically - will the service providers, in the ABW, in the CBA, on the police station - decode, put their hand in such a package and dig into this package to separate technical data from content? [[Applause]] [[Answer me!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u439	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, as corrected, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u440	Thank you. Minister, at the time of your speech, you're either wiretapping, or you're deliberately manipulating our statements, aren't you? It is clearly indicated in Article. 15i: At the order of the court to allow the materials referred to in paragraph 1 to be used in criminal proceedings. 15g point 2, the prosecutor shall be entitled to a complaint. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15g (2) provides for the authorisation for use in criminal proceedings of materials containing information constituting secrets related to the pursuit of the profession or functions referred to in Article. 180 § 2 K.p.k., a defense secret. [[Voice from the room: Bollocks.]] It's mentioned directly in the bill. And please do not tell millions of Poles who listen to such discussions that we do not understand the text they read. That is absolutely not true, and I ask you to apologize. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u441	Mr Marek Opioła, representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for answering these questions, which have also been addressed to me. But I would like to say one very fundamental thing, which here should be remembered, that in fact the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which we are talking about on this project, which we are proceeding today, was on the side of the Civic Platform. For 16 months it was the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party that did nothing about it. And now you're attacking us for leaving us a cuckoo egg so we can quickly... [[The bill was good.]] We had to do it, we took the glove, so that the special forces, and above all the police, could keep the security of Poles safe. [[You shouldn't have gone beyond the record.]] I am surprised at the Civic Platform and, above all, Members who are familiar with the special services, that they say such nonsense. Secondly, I regret that unfortunately, as Marek Suski said, projects have been found to interpel Members of the Civic Platform at the headquarters of the NATO Expert Counterintelligence Centre. So...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u443	Please don't mention names, sir, because we will be listening to corrections by morning. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u444	I don't mention any names, Mr. Marshal, to avoid any correction. Moreover, some Members have confessed to this... [[I don't know...]] ...that it was written, consulted... [[Who was that?]] I don't name names. Written, consulted with the former Head of the Military Counterintelligence Service, interpellations on important matters such as the security of the Polish state. So are you really saying that we have your amendments to support? In fact, I'm asking you to support our project, because this is a really good change in what you didn't do and what you were afraid to do. And today, talking about the fact that Internet users are at risk is, unfortunately, bullshit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u445	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur of the committee want to speak? No. Thank you very much. [[But the Minister's answer maybe? One question?]] The discussion is closed. [[There's no discussion.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 January. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join this list? No one's checking in. A list of MPs... One more Member reporting. Mr Sławomir... I now consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Rado! The Rzeszów-Dworszko Science and Technology Park is an investment carried out by the district of Rzeszów, which is the only one in Poland, with its own large investment area, over 83 ha, decided to fully arm it. In September 2014, the first phase of the construction of the park was completed. At that time 45 hectares of land were armed within the administrative borders of Rzeszów, and a year later another, full weaponization of 28 hectares was put into service in the area of Głogów Małopolski. Areas made available to future investors are equipped with a network of access roads with pavements, bike paths and LED lighting. Each investment parcel shall be equipped with technical infrastructure. In addition, a photovoltaic cell farm with a total capacity of 0,63 MW was built in the area of almost 1 ha. The district of Rzeszow also decided to build a district heating network, 2.6 km, thanks to which entrepreneurs can benefit from the system heat supplied by the Municipal Heat Energy Company - Rzeszów. The protection of investment areas is provided by a comprehensive monitoring system equipped with 14 cameras. The innovativeness of the offered terrain is demonstrated by the presence of an active lightning protection system which protects the site from atmospheric discharges. The Rzeszów-Dworszko Park is currently the largest and most attractive, comprehensively armed investment area within the administrative borders of the city of Rzeszów and the entire Podkarpacie. For the entire area there is a local spatial planning plan for industrial and service activities. It is a place with great investment opportunities and great human potential. The park's mission is to create and develop a major economic centre based on industry and modern technologies, where entrepreneurs will find convenient business conditions. The district of Rzeszow has a convenient communication location. Near the Rzeszów-Dworszko Science and Technology Park there is a thriving international airport Rzeszów-Jasionka, near the A4 motorway and the S19 expressway. The whole area is adjacent to the railway bus E30 Germany - Poland - Ukraine. The district of Rzeszow is not only a place to live, it is an ideal place for the development of investment projects, conducting innovative business activity, it is an excellent location for the development of modern business. The Rzeszów-Dworszko Science and Technology Park is a key investment project for the development of Podkarpacie, thanks to which the district of Rzeszow created an economic heart for the city and the whole region. Investors can count on significant tax reliefs as Rzeszów-Dworzno Park was incorporated into the Euro-Park Mielec Special Economic Zone, which offers public aid to entrepreneurs in the form of income tax exemptions. The basis for the use of tax exemptions in the zone is to obtain permission to operate in the Special Economic Zone Euro-Park Mielec. Authorisations are granted by the Industrial Development Agency SA on behalf of the Minister of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u447	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. Mr President, can you put it in writing? No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are still in the atmosphere of the debate about the Police Act and I am of course aware that we can see the contemporary man in accordance with the concept of Feliks Koneczny, who says that modern man has special axiological pressure. However, I have the impression that the idea of Koneczny, which speaks of the fact that a contemporary European has been a little lost in terms of good and evil, is that by the fact that he has bulwarkly embed into a concept of being, sometimes in the arbiterium he seeks too many temptations that embrace him in its entirety. As a result, it becomes an excessive risk. On the other hand, there are those who take advantage of this naivety of man. Continuing with the Koneczny thought, I would like to contrast it with what Philip Zimbardo said in his, however well-known trial, the Lucifer Effect, i.e. that man has not only good nature, but also has a tendency to be bad. In this context, it seems that eyebrows and police ears are the wrong step. I would also like to draw attention to what has been happening in Europe in recent days, especially in the context of events taking place on New Year's Eve in many European metropolitan areas related to the unusual, shameful sexual harassment of women. Another theme is the wave of migrants flooding Europe and the absolute lack of response skills not only from specialised services, but also from ordinary citizens who are not accustomed to confronting such behaviours. I live on Lubuskie soil, I come from the border of Krosno district. Who, then, is the earliest to know, like us, what is happening just abroad, in Germany? So three examples. [[Oh, Jesus.]] The pharmacy in a small German city, comes the Muslim family, there are five, seven, many, sneak around the shelves, mark that they want to buy something, do nothing, women, the elderly go out, take what goes in the bags, little children leave it in the pharmacy and go out, repeat, children stay, no one knows why, for how long, they absorb staff, scare other customers, it's weird. The second example is: immigrants receive from the German service vouchers for 100 and 150 euros, go to shops, load the goods for 200 and 300, much more than they are paying, cashiers do not know how to behave, try to organize purchases, separate one item from another, as a result buyers do rewetes, shout, lament, raise their hands to Allah for injustice, children weep, dogs bark, real pandemonium, no one knows how to react. Workshops producing metal gates, fences and fences in Gubin, Kostrzyn, Rich people make money. German jobs are growing. The Berlin Wall has collapsed, home fortifications, chains and barriers are being built in its place. The political correctness of the multiculti is stuck on the doorstep of the house, a frightened German house. I'm describing these events of a kind, but I'm not talking about something dangerous. Let's break down the door of uncertainty, and we'll be flooded with violence and uncontrollable violence. So let us not take away our eyes, let us not clog their ears, for it will be the same for us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u449	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Gawron. Mr President, I encourage you to leave the manuscript. [[...a serious matter for the local community...]] It's necessary to read... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the ongoing discussion on changes in the boundaries of local self-government units and the establishment of new voivodships, acting on behalf of their own territorial structures of Law and Justice and on behalf of the inhabitants of the Lublin district, I would like to make a clear position on this matter. Lublin has been associated with Silesia since its uprising in the 13th century. On Lublin soil there were such singers of Silesia as Józef Lompa, Julius Ligon, Jan Nicodemus Jaron or Konstanty Damrot. It was here after World War I that the Silesian insurgents were active. The Śląsk Song and Dance Team, which is an ambassador of Silesian tradition and culture, is located in the district of Lublin Koscin. The identification of inhabitants of Lublin and Silesia is expressed in local names, guar, traditions and customs. Therefore, the membership of our county to the Silesian Voivodeship is a fundamental issue. This is a confirmation of his identity and 800-year history related to Upper Silesia. In 1976, as a result of the administrative reform carried out by the communist authorities, the district of Lublin was incorporated into the newly established Częstochowa voivodeship. This decision met with widespread disapproval, which was clearly expressed by the referendum held by the NSZZ.Solidarity in 1981, in which it was more than 90% voters voted in favour of returning to the Katowice voivodship. Only in 1998 did Lublin land return to the administrative borders of Upper Silesia. 17 years after those events plans for the return of the Częstochowa voivodship to the administrative map of the country appear. We do not deny such aspirations to the inhabitants of Częstochowa and culturally and historically connected with the spiritual capital of Poland, but we stand in the position that any administrative changes that might be made must take into account the will of the interested parties. No binding decisions can take place without the consent of the residents expressed through a wide public consultation, the opinions of local authorities, or the consent expressed through a referendum. Once again, I would like to stress that we are in favour of the further belonging of the Lublin district to the structures of the Śląskie voivodship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u451	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Starzycki, club Law and Justice. It says you, too, as I see it, can hand it over in writing. [[Next.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Directorate of the Jaworzno Multispecialist Hospital has asked me on a matter of key importance for the future and the proper functioning of this unit. The case concerns the need to announce an offer contest and contract the benefits in the field of magnetic resonance imaging. The hospital has made great efforts to obtain funds for the purchase of an MRI, bearing in mind the well-being of the inhabitants of the city of Jaworzna and providing access to such research in the area of the commune and neighbouring towns. The Silesian Regional Branch of the NFZ has also repeatedly informed about these intentions and concrete actions. The assurance of funding of the research was submitted in this respect during the ceremony of opening the resonance studio of the then director of the Silesian institution. Unfortunately, after the MRI was launched - despite repeated attempts to communicate with the authorities of the Silesian Voivodeship Branch of the NFZ in writing and personally by the hospital directorate - no action has been taken by the fund to contract the above mentioned. benefits. Therefore, the inhabitants of Jaworzna are forced to use outpatient research in other voivodship centers, thus exposed to difficulties in the form of long commuting and long waiting time for such important research in order to establish a correct diagnosis and further treatment. This state of affairs is also so incomprehensible that recently the Silesian Regional Branch of the NFZ announces competitions dedicated to specific types of benefits or even specific benefits. The tender procedure for the purchase of medical equipment for SP ZOZ Multi-specialist Hospital in Jaworzno in order to improve the quality of highly specialised medicine - magnetic resonance was carried out within the framework of the RPO project of the Silesian Voivodeship for the years 2007 and 2013, priority IX: Health and recreation, announced and completed in 2011. The amount that was allocated to finance this task is almost PLN 5.5 million. It was financed in a proportion of 85% up to 15% Of which 15% were funds transferred from the grant of the town of Jaworzna. The hospital completed the reconstruction of the MRI building with its delivery on 31 December 2011. Unfortunately, since then, the NFZ has not announced a contest procedure for the MRI test, despite the fact that before the procedure for the purchase of the MRI, the hospital received an assurance from the NFZ that this procedure will be announced. High Izbo! In my opinion, it is unacceptable that residents of a 100-thousand city in which a public hospital, properly equipped, must travel to other cities of the voivodship to carry out such research. In this regard, I also referred in previous years to the NFZ as deputy president of the city and chairman of the social council of this hospital. I believe that the obvious pathology associated with the conduct of the Silesian Provincial Division of the NFZ in this area should be eliminated as soon as possible. I hope that the services referred to above will finally be contracted in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u453	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice now have a voice. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. I'm sure you're writing it in writing. [[I'll be brief.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement concerns a worrying change of connections from 1 February 2016 to 28 March from Katowice Airport in Pyrzowice to Warsaw-Okęcie Airport. This line is supported by Polish Airlines LOT and I am full of concerns that the scheduled connections will remain permanent for this time. Moreover, after the social and business talks, we came to the conclusion that it was pointless to cancel morning flights at hours. 9.05 from Katowice in months: February and March. The arguments in favour of leaving the morning flights at hours. 8.50 p.m. or 8.00 p.m. 9.05, depending on how the supporter of this line will want to plan, are the following. First of all, commercial arguments. For business, administration or politicians alike, leave at hours. 9 guarantees the possibility of dealing with all matters in the capital on one day and ensures the return to home on the same day. Commercial arguments are also related to the use of the current high attendance on this flight and the possibility of arriving at the airport from home at hours. 8.15, not hours. 5. Another commercial argument is also - with the departure option at hours. 5.45 - pushing and worsening the comfort of connections with the capital of existing passengers from hours. 9.05. The operational argument in turn is the much greater predictability of planned departures from Katowice in the morning with deep weather disturbances in the mornings at the airport in Krakow, especially during the autumn-winter period, as we observe on an ongoing basis. Departures, on the other hand, at hours. 5.45 from Katowice to Warsaw require that people arriving in Warsaw expect a minimum of 2, 3 hours. to open state institutions or business. According to the users of these connections, these are key arguments for leaving departures from Katowice to Warsaw around hours. 9, because it is the most favourable, and it is one of the largest regions in Poland. The connection to the capital is very desirable and checked so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u455	It was supposed to be short. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted my statement today... I would like to present a situation that in many people arouses a lot of emotions, controversy, about the equivalent of money or the equivalent, of coal, which concerns miners. Here, in this Chamber, many times on this subject. Yeah, we did. Poland looking at Silesia and today, not even Silesia, but also other regions in the country where coal is extracted, has many reservations and comments about this. Let's take a look at the situation today. Well, we have, like, three groups of retirees and miners who, to varying degrees and under different conditions, benefit from the equivalent. First of all, we have the first group whose equivalent was secured by two laws. There is the Mining Act of 7 September 2007, which has been amended several times, which is actually applicable to liquidated mines. Both those miners and those who benefit from the Law on Money Equivalence for the right to free coal for persons entitled from mining companies - this is the Act of 6 July 2007 - benefit from the State budget allocated to the Social Security Office. More than PLN 180 million were saved for this purpose in the financial year 2016. We have a second group of mining pensioners who have so far benefited from the payment of this equivalent by coal companies. How's it looking today? Since 1 January 2015, these pensioners have been deprived of this equivalent by the Coal Company, by Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and... and not here. Katowice Holding Węglowy suspended from 1 January 2015 for 3 years payment of this equivalent. In turn we have three mining entities, which continue to pay this equivalent - Tauron Extraction, which pays for 3 tons of coal per year, Bogdanka mine and the Company for Restructuring of Mines. These are entities which in some way or directly 100% belong to the State Treasury or participate in capital also in the structures of the State. As of 1 January 2015, the group of 200, more than 220 thousand. persons, i.e. pensioners and miners, have been effectively deprived of the right to equivalent by the boards of coal companies and trade union boards. Of course, this was done for reasons related to the economic existence of these entities. But going back to the first point - some of these people benefit from a grant, from funding for this equivalent from the state budget. There is a third group of people who have not yet been secured have been deprived of this equivalent. These were workers of mining companies, who, also for economic reasons of their economic operators, gave up effectively, on the basis of decisions of management and trade unions, on this equivalent. All three groups, people worked hard underground, risking their lives, health and life at the same time under conditions of risk of methane explosion, carbon dust, dripping, mountaineer movement. All three groups worked in state-owned enterprises. Is it fair and fair to these people that some today enjoy this right and do not exercise it? Is this the fault of those who were deprived of it? I don't think so. Retirists and miners from Silesia and not only do they expect anything special, something extraordinary. They expect power not to divide them. They expect mining equivalent issues to be sorted out. Today, in thousands of pieces, they sue the regional courts, appeal to the boards of coal companies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From this point on, I would like to appeal to the government, Prime Minister Szydło, for the government to take care of this matter as soon as possible and put it in order. It can't go on like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u457	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth recalling that on 22 December 2015 the High Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the year 2016 as the Year of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. Like the Sejm of the Republic of Poland very similar positions, similar resolutions are taken by local governments. And I would like to present here the position of the Lublin City Council, which on 23 December 2015 adopted the relevant text, the relevant document, the appropriate position. I would like to thank the councillors who initiated this project, Councillor of Law and Justice. I would like to thank all Alderman Lublin for supporting this position and adopting this document. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2016 is a memory of the fundamental event, which is the baptism of Poland, for the whole of our Homeland. The adoption by the Home I Christianity in 966 introduced the country of Polan into Christian Europe, Western civilization and for over 1000 years shaped our national identity. From the beginning of its existence Lublin has been firmly rooted in the Christian tradition, thus becoming a place of co-existence between different cultures and nationalities. Our city has witnessed and witnessed important events of European rank in history. This is undoubtedly the Lublin Union of 1569 which created the Republic of both Nations. This event has not only influenced the shape of Europe at that time, but it is also a reference point today for concerted cooperation between nations. Our city was connected by the Bishop of Lublin, and later the Primate of Poland Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. This great Pole and honorary citizen of Lublin organized a wonderful celebration of the millennium of Poland's baptism, which became a symbolic date of the defeat of communist ideology in our Homeland. Taking from the heritage of the Primate of the Millennium, we have a moral duty to remind him of his legacy, entering into the national celebrations of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. This Christian dimension of our national and local life deserves respect and modern promotion, especially aimed at young generations of lylanin. The Lublin City Council asks the President of Lublin and Lublin educational and cultural institutions to take action and initiatives in 2016 to commemorate the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. The Lublin City Council also believes that the 1050-year-old Christian tradition in Poland should find a proper and worthy place at the 700th anniversary of Lublin's granting of urban rights in 2017. So much for the Lublin City Council. Once again, I would like to thank those who initiated this project, this idea. I also encourage other local authorities to take such similar positions. Thank you to the city council for taking this position. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u459	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u460	Thank you, Marshal. With great pleasure and pride as a Member of the Western Pomerania, I would like to make a statement on a special day for the Szczecin 13th High School. Today, after 5 years, our school has returned to the first place in the ranking of all general education schools in Poland organized by the monthly "Perspectives" and the journal "Rzeczpospolita." XIII General Education High School in Szczecin was established in 1991. This prestigious award has been awarded for the eighth time in the last 18 years. This is undoubtedly the honor and crowning of the joint work of the authors of this success, all teachers and school employees. You should be replaced first, Mr. Director. Caesar Urban, once a Member of the Polish Parliament. Mr Maciej Kopciu, the current Deputy Minister of National Education, should be mentioned immediately after that. I can't forget about the students and the parents, of course. I must also mention the name of Vice President Szczecin Elizabeth Masojć. Madam President, we all remember the role you played. I would also like to mention Dr. Basil Baran. Ladies and gentlemen! I pay my respects to all of you from this place and thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u461	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u462	Statement on the 111th anniversary of Czesław Szczubałek's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! January 7th this year We celebrated the 111th anniversary of Czesław Szczubałek's birth. I would therefore like to approximate the figure of the deceased during the uprising of the Warsaw lieutenant of the Polish Army, an officer of the Home Army, a doctor of medicine. Czesław Szczubałek was born on 7 January 1905 as the son of Stanisław and Agnieszka from the house of Rocławska. He attended high school in Lipna. During the Polish-Bolshevik War he volunteered to join the Polish Army, but because of his young age he was admitted only for a few weeks to serve in the field hospital. He was a member of the Polish Scouts Association. After completing the appropriate courses he conducted a sanitary course for scouts in Lipno. The high school prom exam passed. Stanisław Wyspiański in Mława. He was in charge of the platoon at the Military Adoption School Hufcu, studying there. After his graduation he started medical studies at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Warsaw. He graduated from a medical doctor at the age of 28. In the meantime, he has received compulsory military training, receiving the rank of lieutenant of the reserve. Even before the outbreak of the war, he obtained a PhD in medical science. In August 1939, Czesław Szczubałek volunteered for military service. He was assigned to the bathroom in Powązki. After the war, this battalion was destroyed by the Germans. The puppet and some of the soldiers broke out of the lap, but soon he was captured by the Soviets. During his export to the USSR, he managed to escape from transport. Then he returned to the capital. Then he began working in a conspiracy. Czesław Szczubałek was part of the group of Warsaw women. In Sadyba he co-organized the group of the Polish Union troops. In 1942, this formation was merged with the National Army, acting from now on as 5. Division V of the Mokotów District of the Warsaw District of the National Army - battalion of the Oaza. The commandant of District 5 was Czesław Szczubałek ps. A lizard. After the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, he commanded the defense of Fort Czerniaków im. Jan Henryk Dąbrowski. On September 1, 1944, a bomb struck the corner chamber of the fort. Sadyba's insurgent command was killed then. Among the 24 officers and soldiers there were also Czesław Szubelek. Czesław Szczubelek was buried in Czerniakowski Cemetery, and then his remains were transferred to the Wilanów Cemetery, to the Oaza group headquarters. His name was the park around the street. Morszyńska and the moat of Fort Czerniakowski. Among the awards given to him are the Order of Virtuti Militari, the Cross of Valiant and the Golden Cross of Merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-14-sejm-08-2.u463	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 15 January this year, until 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 30]]
