ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u1	Please take your seats. Resume session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. The text of the information is provided in print No 265. The Senate Marshal addressed the information received to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 20 September this year, and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on 28 September this year, at their meetings, took note of the information presented and informed the Senate Marshal. Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Bartosz Marczuk Hello, Minister. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information. And I'm gonna be so informed that after this point, I'm gonna announce a break by 10:30 tomorrow. We're not expecting votes today. [[See you tomorrow, huh?]] [[I'll see you by 10:30 tomorrow.]] After this point, I'll announce a recess by 10:30 tomorrow. We're not expecting any votes today. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! First of all, thank you so much for wanting to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...in plenary to deal with this issue, and for us also very important. Both the Social Policy Committee and the Local Government Committee have come to the conclusion to address these issues in plenary. I will make the most of what we have in the report. Of course, you have read this report in writing... It seems that we all want you to get a direct response from me as a representative of the government, what our plans are in this area, and it is also a debate. As far as fundamental issues are concerned, the ones we consider to be fundamental in this matter, one at a time... Let's go through the institutions involved in the implementation of this law. We have a pretty good situation when it comes to family assistants. Their numbers are approaching 4,000. For us the fundamental element of the whole family support system is indeed the family assistant, because it is the family assistant who carries out the tasks that, in our sense, are extremely important, that is to say, prevents the crisis in the family and causes fewer children to be placed in foster care from this family. Of course, we still have some quality problems, after these quantitative problems, which seem to be getting smaller and smaller. This is a question of the form of employment of these assistants, of their remuneration. We've already made a decision this year, when we're doing a contest, that we award those municipalities that hire them for employment contracts, and they don't take breaks. I'm sure you senators know that when the money comes out of the budget, it often happens that assistants are fired at a time when there's no money. There is also a clear improvement in participation in the costs borne by municipalities due to the recruitment of assistants. That's over half the cost. As far as municipal day support is concerned, it is not bad either. We have over one and a half thousand of these facilities. They, of course, serve the support of the family. It's worse, and it's really a problem with supporting families. There are only 82 such families. Of course, we can say that there is some progress here, because in 2014 they were 44 families, but it actually seems that this is an institution that should be used more widely. The co-ordinators of foster care aren't too bad either. There's about 1,600 of them. They are well paid, they are well prepared to pursue their profession, and it seems that the case is in quite good condition. As far as foster care is concerned, this is really the case here. And that's certainly not a satisfactory result. That there are still about 19,000 children in institutional foster care. There are 58,000 children in foster care in family forms. The process of deinstitutionalisation does not take place in our sense at the rate and as smoothly as it should be. Our goal is to... Of course, we are maintaining these limit dates on 2020, 2021. As regards both the age-related issue of children and the fact that there is a small number of children in institutional foster care. However, this process is not yet underway At least as far as the 2015 report is concerned. It's the way it's supposed to be. Although it must be noted here that the Prime Minister's decision and the decision of Minister Rafalska... Well, something really unusual happened after 1989 when it comes to the family form of foster care. I mean, for children who are in the family form of foster care, there is a 500+ benefit paid. At the moment, 50,000 such benefits are paid. This action, apart from supporting these families and children, who are in family forms of foster care, also gives a clear signal as to what government policy is in this case. So we say that we would really like to support these family forms of foster care, and we would really like institutional institutions, children's homes just to disappear from the landscape that we are watching. Funding issues are also important. Please note that the cost of keeping the child in the family form of foster care is either PLN 1 000 or PLN 2 000, depending on the form, and as far as institutional foster care is concerned, it is a cost of PLN 4 000. Finally, the word about the next element of the system, which is adoption centers. We have this conviction and the impression that when it comes to the policy of the marshals involved in the adoption centers... well, it doesn't seem that this policy is exactly what we want it to be. We want to see diversity in adoption centers, which means that there are both non-public and public centres. Well, it seems that this marshal policy goes a little in the way that they prefer these own public centres. I meet with representatives of non-public centres and it seems that there is indeed such a situation that these non-public adoption centres are, well, you can say that in quotes It's a little discriminated against. And we're thinking about how to deal with this situation. Above all, we care about, as I said, but diversity, both because of the efficiency of the system Because these non-public centers work very well, in our sense, As well as because of the values. Often people who choose to become adoptive parents prefer to go to a center, say, Catholic, where they feel that the same values... in which they feel that people are close, have experience... They'd rather go to a facility like this than to centres that they think are more office-like. Of course, this is not a direct allegation that there are public adoption centres. But you have to remember that there should be balance here. That, in short, is all. And, of course, I serve the ladies and gentlemen of the senators with answers to questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question about this information? Senator Rulewski came in first. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u4	Minister, there's something surprising about your information that hasn't happened so far. In general, all whistleblowers Sorry, that's what I'm saying in quotes. Honourable ministers or representatives of other institutions were not limited only to obvious information, which may be available at the CSO or in various studies, they always added information about their purposes. I'm asking what the government's intentions are. 'Cause it doesn't seem like we've heard it. It's specific. Especially since you have also done some criticism of the solutions that have been made so far, which I think is even appropriate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u5	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u6	Thank you so much for asking. I seem to have said a little bit about what direction we're going to want to go. Of course, I leave the senators more time to debate and discuss, and I also serve information. As far as assistants are concerned, we would like to strengthen these assistants as possible. Like I said, in the program that we announced this year, we preferred employment on the board, plus employment all year round. In our sense of assistant they are a very important element of the system, because, as I said, they prevent crisis situations in the family and are also working to ensure that children are taken into foster care They may have returned to their family. We're thinking about... I mean, right now, among other things. Professor Krasiejko or through her... We've funded a manual for family assistants, the first such manual. And we sent him to all universities in Poland. We were also with Minister Elżbieta Rafalska at the annual meeting of assistants, where we talked about the problems of this professional group, in the direction I was talking about. As far as intentions are concerned, we would like to see more supportive families, i.e. a more common institution. This is an issue that at the level of such a real life... If the family has a problem and there is a family in its local environment that is such a supportive family, this seems to be a good solution. Here's another thing. We would like to speed up the process of deinstitutionalisation as regards foster care. This is a very important matter for us. We are thinking about how to do this both from the institutional side, i.e. from the possible legal intervention and from the educational side. I have many meetings mainly with the elders and explain to them, I tell them that there is no such thing as a nice, good, well-equipped baby home. The problem is that there is often such a mental blockade. Local authorities seem to think that if they actually provide it very well, that if it is a nice building, it is a good solution. But, as I say, there is a fundamental difference between the family form of foster care and institutional care, because there are educators who exchange, and here we have some emotional contact, we have the possibility that those children who are already hurt by fate are better taken care of. I was in Frogs on May 30th with Mrs. Edyta Wojtasińska on Replacement Parenting Day. We also meet often and think about how these forms of family... We are, of course, maintaining the dates that are included in the Act, which is the years 2020 and 2021, although we would like to That's our dream. However, for this process to take place more quickly with regard to changes in the institutional form of foster care. Another thing is, like I said, adoption centers. There seems to be a need for some kind of legal intervention on this issue. Even yesterday I met with Senator Szymanski with the representatives of the adoption centre. It seems that this policy, as I said, of the marshals, that we are commissioning this task and we are paying for it... If there is, let's say, a tendency to give little money to non-public adoption centres, then this issue seems, too, to require reflection. At the moment, we have asked all marshals, through the voivodships, to report to us on how these individual adoption centres function and how effective their work is. Although it is well known that this is very difficult to do, we intend to keep in mind that next year's money distribution will be taken into account when it comes to the quality of the money. We would also like better cooperation between co-ordinators of foster care and assistants. Because it's often the case that they're acting in two vectors, i.e. The assistant tries and tries to get this child back into the environment, that is, the family, and the coordinator is determined to have this child adopted. I'm not saying it's a rule, but it seems like there's a need to reflect on it. We would also like to do this, and that is the intention, because there are good practices, e.g. in Gdynia In order for the family assistant to fit into the whole family support system in a fairly clear way when it comes to functioning. They usually operate in social assistance centres, and that's why sometimes cooperation at local level is rough. Gdynia dealt with it. We have downloaded these good practices from Gdynia and we are wondering how to popularize these good practices. So that's probably all the issues that are on the agenda. Of course, she was a senator, and we talked about it. Also, statutory intervention to avoid such a slightly artificial division or the artificial combination of childcare facilities. We see, of course, that institutional foster care is arriving because this requirement of 14 children is often artificially fulfilled by dividing a regular facility, which is simply a large facility being divided by a wall. We would like to control or we would like to monitor the process of these transformations. So that these are the main issues that are currently on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Łyczak. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am determined against the existence of children's homes. For several years, I've been doing everything in my region, where I live, so that these disgraceful relics of the past will disappear from the map. I've adopted children myself. I have a specific question for the Minister. Does this government make it a noble task to eliminate the homes of a child and replace them with any other form of care? Because all other forms, whether foster families or adoptions, are desirable in every way, economically, but primarily educational. Or are we simply planning that in this term these shameful relics of the past will disappear from the map of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u10	Thank you for asking, Senator. As far as plans are concerned, for now, the agenda is what is in the Act, which is 2021. Absolutely agree with the senator that we should do everything to ensure, in principle, that the institutional foster care disappears from the map of Poland. It's a huge job, because it's not just a question of economic incentives, it's also a question of education. As we meet with the old-timers, as I said, it is clear that they often do not know that this is something not particularly desirable, and they think that if they finance these houses, they do well. I agree with the senator. Back in 2006, when I was a co-creator of the government's family policy programme, for the first government of law and justice, we even entered on the agenda, even then, the liquidation of the institutional homes of the child. Like you, Senator, you are well aware, there are also issues. And let's say it brutally. Just work in children's homes. It's a matter of the fact that the old folks often have jobs there, that these are buildings... So when it comes to possible legislative changes, we are thinking in terms of how to help them make this decision so that it is really easier for them to put away their children's homes. There's one important thing that's been done, that's what I just said. Please note that, for the first time after 1989, huge support was so clearly addressed to family forms of foster care. The introduction of the 500+ programme, as I said, without an income criterion for the first child, and at the moment there are 50,000 benefits in this system, is an unambiguous, very clear signal, an indication of what the government cares about. What does it matter? In order for family forms of foster care to develop so that family forms of foster care are the standard in force, with, say, a margin of institutional forms that would have to exist because of emergencies, crises, intervention. But the rule should be family form.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we can read in the information that in 2015. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy agreed in 252 cases involving 371 children, and the family court ruled in 2015 that people living abroad were adopted in 199 cases against 279 children. I have a question: have any research or analysis been carried out on whether any of these children have been admitted to homosexual families?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u13	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u14	Before I answer the question specifically, I'm going to point out that when it comes to foreign adoption, you have to remember: that this is indeed a very delicate matter. As a rule, it should be so that if Poland agrees to foreign adoption, it is actually an extreme case, a situation where the child no longer has any possibility of adopting in the country, it does not function in any way in a foster family, in such a way that there really are these bonds... We as a central body, because every foreign adoption, you can say, goes through our Department of Family Policy, we have feedback from these 3 adoption centers that deal with foreign adoptions, and you can see that this system works pretty well, it is not easy to go through it, and at the same time we are strengthening interventions when it comes to foreign adoption. She's been coming to us lately. And in this case, I asked for an intervention. The issue of foreign adoption of three siblings, in which the three siblings cannot find their adoptive parents in Poland, was given atopic dermatitis. So I just had them investigate the situation, see if everything was done and what could be done so that these children wouldn't be sent abroad. But I've also recently intervened in the case of a six-month-old girl who's in the home of a little child. Well, let's just say she was a little bit sluggish about her going to the United States where Polka was... Her brother was also in the United States, and he was adopted earlier. As far as foreign adoption is concerned, it must also be pointed out that actually most Western countries do not foresee foreign adoption in their systems at all. They don't want their citizens specially... They don't want their citizens to leave. But let's remember that the other side of the medal is that it can happen that a child who just absolutely doesn't have the chance to find adoptive parents because of the damage due to the fact that he is very disabled or seriously ill... When she leaves, it's the child's business that she can function in the family... You have to weigh these values. I remind and emphasize that the scale of foreign adoptions in Poland is not very great, it is around 350 a year, but we are of course examining and checking these documents that reach us. We even ask, if we are dealing with, I do not know, with another religious rite, if someone is not Catholic, but in some other Christian rite... We ask him if he guarantees that he will raise a child in the faith that this child has grown up in. I didn't, and I don't have any indication that the kids are going to gay families. Let us remember that these adoption centers, which are involved in foreign adoption, are quite important and have a lot of experience in this area and X-ray these families; they are also X-rayed by foreign institutions. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u15	Yes, please, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u16	Minister, I would also like to ask you about the problem of separation of siblings in the case of foreign adoption. This is an outrageous situation when siblings are separated, one of the children is transferred to a foreign family. How often does that happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u17	These are cases that arouse emotions, but it is absolutely neither a rule nor a common practice. You do everything you can to keep these siblings together. Like I said, even the last decision to speed up the adoption process of this six-month-old girl was related to her brother... She was or was adopted by a Texas family, mom's Polish... Her brother's in Memphis. This is one of the reasons why some intervention took place: it was to make sure that the siblings had, so to speak, a contact. It's not a rule, but I agree, Senator, that it's... It is also a lesson for us that we still need to check these procedures and analyse all documents very carefully so that these situations do not occur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u19	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask about the 500+ solution, which is also addressed to foster families. Do you think this needs to be verified? Because I think it's counterproductive if we're going to get the kids back to their biological families. The point is that this witnessing is embedded in children who are related in a family, namely their grandparents or other relatives. The benefit of 500+, which they receive in addition to the money to support this child or those children, if there are more of them, is not encouraged by natural parents to take care of these children. Are you expecting some sort of correction here? Are there any thoughts in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u20	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u21	As I said, this is a very clear strengthening of the family form of foster care and I think we need to look at this from a wide perspective of deinstitutionalisation of the whole process. We've talked to the senator on this subject many times, and I have a different opinion here. I do not think that this situation is actually so petrified by the fact that the foster family does not want to give the child to the natural family in any way because it receives 500+. Let us remember that the natural family also has the right to this witness when the child returns to her. We were checking what it looked like, because at some point there was quite alarming information about the fact that after starting the program 500+ parents are going to court massly so that the children would return to their families because of the money, because they would receive support. Well, first of all, let us remember that it is the family court that makes the decision. Secondly, statistics do not see such a mass phenomenon, it is even marginal. Such cases were 3700 in 2015, in the first half of the year, and in the second half of 2016, there were probably 30 more of them. But it's okay to think about what the senator said. I am putting this as an open and probably for debate. Or possibly As I say, I reserve that possibly, but there must be some reflection on the head. Some of the money from the 500+ program, if they go to a foster family, and this foster family, of course, also receives aid from the county in the form of buildings, etc., do not spend on what is also a problem, and it is not so that we do not see it, namely emancipation? So, in other words, the question is, does the part of the money that comes from the 500+ program have to be converted into savings so that the ward gets out of care and self-reliantly has some start-up capital? This is, of course, an open question, this is a reflection that is now coming to mind. It is not a plan and purpose, but it seems that one could probably think of such a solution, so as not to cause the phenomenon that the senator was talking about. But also the work and this strengthening of family assistants, which is so much in our heart, is about to serve this And it's also, you can say, my idée fixe to actually, when it comes to those families where the children are being taken away, to greatly strengthen this element of the system that makes these children come back to their families.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u23	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. Very... quite detailed here you described the situation of the whole foster care system. I have this question: which of the important objectives, of course, in your assessment, of the foster care system have not been implemented or have been implemented, so to speak, to an inappropriate extent? What are the biggest problems? I ask this in the context of family foster care. I'd like you to say a few words about what you think has not been sufficiently achieved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u24	The problems are, of course, a few. The first problem is the process of deinstitutionalization, which somewhere at this point started to bump. The second problem, however, is still a high proportion of children who are in this foster care and are in this foster care. And here's the prospect of a really important work with the family. There is also a problem of functioning, as I mentioned, or financing of adoption centres. There are problems with the institutional intervention or the legal intervention of this institutional division in order only to make amends to the bill, but in fact not to make a great deal of difference. There is also a problem, it seems, educational, of a mental nature, in terms of the way in which the services of the old-fashioned and the old-fashioned function. The question is whether to step up educational efforts to explain this process of deinstitutionalisation to them. And that's probably the main problems we have right now. Well, of course, family assistants who... Even in 2014 it was clear that there was a very, very big problem in this area, in 2015 it was already a slightly smaller problem, but we need to work on actually this element of the system to strengthen and regulate competence issues at the level of the municipality, how to They're supposed to function. So, in short, these are the issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Mikołajczyk. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question like this. How is monitoring the work of assistant foster families, centers? If so, how is the evaluation of the work of assistant centres and foster families carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u27	With regard to evaluation and monitoring of the whole system, of course They're here to assist us with the service of the voivodship. They were reinforced this year by additional posts, supported by additional money. We also commissioned, as I mentioned earlier, a number of audits related to the financing of adoption centres, and earlier on to issues relating to the work of assistants. So that it's all monitored by us. Of course, it is also monitored in such a way, let's say, common sense, through meetings with the people mentioned here, trips to such people, conversations with such people. As I mentioned, Minister Rafalska and I were at a family assistant reunion. We're dating... I mean, I often meet with everyone, so to speak, actors of this whole system, just to have direct information. There seems to be a very good team in the ministry that deals with these issues. There is a very good warden, Mrs. Kasia Napiórkowska, who is directly responsible for... And she is really very committed, she has important and deep contacts with the people who are in this system. So much for the surveillance issue. And the question of evaluation... When I was answering to the senator, I told him about those issues that... What does not work very well in this system. And I'm sure there'll be some changes to be made here. Either statutory, or possibly in the system itself, if not necessary... But there is also the issue of education. [[Can I have another one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u28	Yes, of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you very much. However, I would point out another fact, namely to increase the role of the school in communicating with, for example, foster families. I'm gonna bring up the situation from my town when I was principal of the school. For really four years, we've reported some irregularities that we've seen in one of the foster families. Public prosecutorial charges were filed in 2014 and continued between 2009 and 2013. Except the children mentioned here were only two years old at my school, because the moment my parents noticed that we were uncomfortable with them and we reported many very disturbing situations, they took the children from the school I was a principal and moved them to another school. The management there, after our intel, also kept an eye on the case, has been reporting... And so, in 2014, the family was charged with prosecutorial charges. However, I believe that this has been going on for too long. I mean, if we didn't transmit some signals to the county family care center, then... There wasn't one of the county's help centers for the family of interest. Or it was an interest to a very small extent. With regard to feedback from school. I think that something like this should happen to a much wider extent. Because often they are teachers, educators, psychologists from schools or school heads who notice certain problems. And that led to my question of monitoring and evaluation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u30	Yes, this case you're discussing is very important. I'll remind you that... because the senator was talking about the 2014 case. In 2015, in July, there was an amendment to the Act. This amendment gave the county And we remind you of that, too. In a situation where control takes place, it is possible to talk directly to pupils. On the occasion of recent media reports related to the situation in Pomorskie voivodship we also sent to the Old Town... we have repeatedly informed that they have the right to such control and should do so. And that these checks should be deepened. It's not just a question of checking if everything's okay in the papers, it's also about actually going deeper and seeing what's going on inside. There was also a situation recently in Lublin voivodship that PCPR employees came to us asking what to do in the event that one of the carers was restored to work and were suspected of inappropriate behaviour, and it was our suggestion that a notice was made to the prosecution about the possibility of committing a crime. So that, of course, we have a great deal of heart. Because let's remember that this system is very delicate matter. That is, when there are media reports that this system is malfunctioning and that there is abuse in these institutions, especially in the family form of aid, there is some irregularities, then we see later in the statistics that candidates for these forms are less willing to report. It's a connected vessel system. So that here really is important work on our part and it was, as I said, both statutory intervention and such daily work In order to actually monitor and keep up to date these cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Major. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would briefly like to return to the issue of foreign adoption. Please tell me. You said that these adoptions are within 300 per year, which is a few hundred. What's the trend? Is their number decreasing or rising over the past few years? And does this legal status regarding foreign adoption in our country consider the ministry to be what it should be? Are there any changes planned in this regard in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u33	Thank you for asking. Mr. Senator, I'm already looking for an exact number... I think there were more of those adoptions in 2014. In 2014, there were 247 approvals, which concerned 352 children. In 2015 there were 252 consents I mean, it was practically a small increase. Which were 371 children, so here we have an increase, let's say, 20 children. So it's about the same level. But like I said, my concern is And I've also made my employees feel that way. In a situation where we issue this final recommendation, the opinion will examine very carefully whether everything has been done to possibly find adoptive parents in the country. I was actually meeting after a series of meetings even this week, because we have three adoption centers that deal with foreign adoptions and I talked about our way of thinking, and I called for them to actually do everything they could to keep these families in the country. As I said before, it seems that it is necessary to weigh these values very carefully so as not to lead to such a situation that a child who practically has no chance of finding a family, let's say, because of his disability, was not sentenced to institutional foster care.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u35	Minister, I think you're familiar with an extra for Britain, where you know very many Polish families, including those who don't cope with fate. And this statistics show that Polish families, not necessarily with English citizenship, gave up raising their children and passed on their children to the English families, because no Polish families living there took up foster care, being foster families. This number is 100, but it's probably bigger, because we're dealing with it in other countries too. Here's the question: Is this the case? It's not a big number, but it's a matter of honor, because the issue of foreign adoption is raised here, because somewhere Jugendamt has kidnapped our child, and here 100 children have been, in my opinion, a nationalized government has some proposals, is trying to find solutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u36	If I understand your senator correctly, you're asking your parents' decisions to waive their parental rights and hand their children over for adoption... [[No, for foster care.]] Is the foster care... [[English foster care.]] Yeah, for English foster care. I mean, you know, Mr. Senator, this is a case. Extremely delicate from the point of view... How are you supposed to intervene in such a case if a parent who is born with a child renounces parental rights... The question is whether there is even any possibility of intervention and whether the State is entitled to intervene in such a case. On the other hand, a completely different issue that you have also raised, Senator, is the question of helping fellow countrymen abroad. They often fall prey, let us be frank and sincere, overly careless, if not a certain overzealousness of foreign services. This applies primarily to Germany, but also to Norway, where children are simply taken away from Poles, and it is not always because of such a title that we believe it should be so. And that's actually the problem. Mrs. Anna Andrzejewska from the Ministry of Justice is here with us. I asked myself representatives of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, some meetings took place and we initiated a process, some activities in which Polish citizens... Now mostly the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with us, is working on this, so that Polish citizens are not left to themselves in situations in which in the territory of a foreign country the official machine moves and takes away their children. Because then these citizens are left to themselves. I believe that the Polish state should insist on them. And it should provide such citizens with a minimum of two things. One is that these citizens know who to turn to, where to turn to. And the second thing. At least in some cases legal aid should be provided so that foreign institutions do not feel completely unpunished, do not feel that they can do what they want with our citizens abroad. The point is to make them know that behind the back of those citizens who are possibly harmed, there is a decent lawyer, paid for, not difficult from public money, from the budget. Well, well, well, that's not an extreme expense. It's just that the next time the court makes that decision, it's not like he's gonna make that decision, and no one's gonna ask for it. And such a Pole is sometimes forced to simply make that, so to speak, to kidnap a parent and then to protect himself in the territory of our country so that his children are not taken away from him. So that this is indeed the subject of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u37	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u38	Thank you for this strong declaration in the second part of the speech, but I asked about a simpler phenomenon. As I remind you again, I asked if the government intends to do something in a situation where Polish parents, not necessarily with Polish citizenship, who are in exile, transfer their children to English foster families, and as you know, passing children to foster families does not mean losing their parental rights. It is simply a temporary transfer of children, due to various difficulties, to English foster care or foster families. There's 100 of them, that's the number...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u39	Mr. Senator, like I said... The first thing is this. I'm sure you know the statistics, too. That Polish women in Great Britain have about 23 000 children a year, we are the first national minority here. They've already outrun Pakistanis, the Bangladeshi and Indian ladies. That twenty-two thousand a year is a very large number. 100 cases is not a big phenomenon. And you also need to know the context. This is an extremely difficult situation, because... The same thing happens in Poland. There are times when a woman who gives birth to a child renounces her parental rights. There may also be a situation, that the result of the work, among others. The adoption centre is gonna be that she's not gonna get rid of this pregnancy before she gets rid of it, she's not gonna kill that baby. And it may be so, it may turn out that giving up this child is not really just a negative. The fact that she ever had a baby, decided to have that baby, didn't kill him before... So what must be done, and what is also the subject of reflection at the level at which the Ministry of Justice works in cooperation with us, is the question of whether these children, if they go to foster care, because they are either received, or possibly... for this system to function better and so that they can go to this foster care in Poland. Yes? 'Cause they're here, for example. Grandparents, there's family. So these children do not need to be placed in foster care abroad. And the point is, it's really easier for them to go to... [[Now we understand each other.]] ...Polish, when they're out there, let's say, some family contacts, which means they're just easier to get here. So that it is a matter of such an improvement of this process, possibly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u40	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would ask the Minister to detail the information I have found in writing about the European funds for the development of sheltered housing, among others. also for people leaving various educational institutions. Was there money like that in the previous programming period? And what were the tangible effects of their use and how much were used? And as for this programming period, I'm sure that's the way it is, because there's information. So how much is there, and how much are we going to build for it? I'd just ask for something more about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u42	Mr. Senator, allow me to answer in writing because I don't know the exact statistics right now. I know that there's money being mobilised from the fund for broad stock, for educational actions, but also housing issues, but since these are such detailed questions, I wouldn't want to mislead you. So that you may allow me, Senator, to answer in writing. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u43	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyla. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to get some information. If you've got one. How many of these 300 or 300 foreign adoptions concerned chronically ill, disabled or with other defects. I am a pediatrician, I have been observing this phenomenon for many years and in my opinion adoption law is so restrictive that actually foreign adoption even for families with Polish roots Insofar as a child's chronic illness is not involved, disability is virtually impossible. That's my experience. And when it comes to the United States in particular, the opinions that come about families who want to adopt such children are very professional and very deep. I would like our administration to analyze these problems so reliably. And in my experience, we're kind of fighting the consequences, going into in vitro funding. I think we'd have to loosen up a little adoption policy because she doesn't live up to it. I'm a pediatrician and I can see it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u45	Mr. Senator, here's the issue I've mentioned, a very sensitive matter of weighing values: on the one hand, that these children should stay in the country. 'Cause that's what we care about. On the other hand, if they really are chronically ill, disabled, it is to give them a chance to function in the family rather than in the institution. Okay, here it is agreed that it is actually used here, so to speak, a highly meticulous sieve. Because it's not like ad hoc decisions are made in these cases. I would like to remind you that the system is so designed that only three adoption centres are involved in foreign adoptions, which have a really big regard for this issue. We're still investigating this as a central authority, so we're investigating these cases. Like I said before, if there's any doubt, we're sending it back... I don't have precise statistics on which group of these 370 or 350 children who go into foreign adoption... to what extent is really the issue of disability and disability involved. I dare say, however, that this is the vast majority of cases, probably approaching 100% or more than 90%. And at the moment, such systemic solutions to this problem as they are seem quite rational and, if I may say so, even optimal in this respect. I'm also responding to the senator's suggestion that we should be more open. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that most European countries do not have an institution such as foreign adoptions at all, because they simply believe that their citizens should not be sent abroad. However, the countries that deliver In quotes, because it's an ugly word. Children, these are rather poor countries and rather countries, let's say that they are not in the first league when it comes to protecting the internal rights of their citizens. So that these two extreme values that we have, and this system that is, seem to be such a reasonable compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u46	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u47	Minister, I think from all the counties there is such information that the desire to take up the role of a foster family, unfortunately, is decreasing slightly. Somewhere in the statistics, you say there's a 1% drop, but 1% drop. It's over 350 families less a year. So you're seeing this. You can see it. The report states that there is a need for a very intensive effort to recruit candidates. Would you mind telling me what's underneath that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u48	That's what we talked about... [[And another... yeah?]] Mr. Senator. [[I haven't been from the beginning.]] But if there's anything else to complete, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u49	Yes, of course, that's what we're concerned about. The basic thing that needs to be done seems to be, above all, educational activities, encouraging measures. The 500+ program also allows you to hope that actually these candidates can be a little more. It is also planned This is very important, because it also comes from these environments. It's an information campaign about the fact that it's worth being a foster parent at all, it's worth it. Of course, we react very quickly and monitor all cases that are related to abuse in this system, because it is a very spoiling environment around foster parenting. But on the other hand, we are trying, as much as we can, of course, to support foster parenting very much. And this is not only, as I said before, by appreciating these people by the 500+ programme, but also by such soft actions, i.e. emphasising the importance of this task, which families undertake. But also in the context of the reflection on the law, because there is a time to look at the bill. We're going to think about what we're going to do to make these candidates more. And there's, for example, here. the question of zoning, the question of the fact that there is not at the moment For me, this is an amazing central system of places in foster care. It's often like this. At the national level, we have a thousand places at the moment, but the counties keep them to themselves, and the children go into institutional form. So that it is necessary to build such an IT tool. The point is, the judge doesn't call his county and ask where he is. And then a representative of this county says, "We have a place in this orphanage." The point is, he can find out for himself where these places are and send a kid like that out there. So that's also the subject of analysis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u50	Senator Ambrosik. I'm asking you a question... [[I just, Mr. Marshal... I would like to remind you, Minister, that at the committee meeting I received such a promise that you will give in writing information about the possibilities of adopting orphan children in wars in the Middle East.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: Yes, yes.]] [[And I didn't get it, unfortunately.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: Sorry, we will complete this.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u51	Mr. Marshal, I just have a question for you to ask a representative of the Ministry of Justice, or... [[No.]] No? I'll be the one who's gonna address that question to the Minister. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 72 of the Constitution is said: "In the process of establishing the rights of the child, public authorities and persons responsible for the child shall be required to hear and, where possible, take into account the opinion of the child. I have a question: how often do Polish courts personally listen to the child in court proceedings concerning children? I think it should be a rule, not an exception.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u52	Of course, I don't have statistics, it's a question indeed, as the senator rightly pointed out, to the Ministry of Justice. However, I have my own experience, because as a journalist I conducted several such cases, among others. a loud case of the Bajkowskis from Krakow, who were taken away three children on the basis of a properly arbitrary decision of the court. And in fact, despite the fact that these boys were 10, 12 and 8 years old, the court did not listen to these children at all. In my mind, it really should be that their opinion is taken into account, especially when children are a little bigger. I'll probably ask the Ministry of Justice to answer the senator's question of statistics. [[There you go.]] And what I can say on my part is that, in fact, in a situation where I dealt with such cases, I also noticed that this is a shortcoming.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u53	Thank you very much. I inform you that Minister Bartosz Marczuk has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski and Senator Ambrozik. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister for this very professional speech, as well as for the good document that we received from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and which is characterised by what is happening in the foster care system, which is the present state, but also by certain purposes. This document was discussed during the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and was positively assessed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a very important segment of family policy, which tends to have some stability, which should be wondering and what I would like to say a few words about. There is no modern society, modern society in our cultural circle, in which the family would not be experiencing certain crises, certain problems. This is what countries respond to in different ways. Today, as part of our discussion in the Senate, we are considering this part of the crises and family problems that are included in the Act on foster care. First of all, I would like to point out very clearly that the number of families and the number of children using this system is very high in Poland. In Poland almost 1% children are currently in foster care, that is 0.94% , i.e. incomplete 1% , i.e. about 70,000 Polish children. This is a very high percentage, and compared to Western European societies it is generally higher. There are countries where it is slightly higher than ours, but in general we are here in such a position that children in foster care are very much. Note, too, that the number of Polish children has decreased by approximately 40% since 1989. From 11 million 200 thousand to about 7 million. And in 1989, the number of children in foster care Whether in care facilities that were then dominant, or in foster families, it was much smaller than at the moment. Therefore, it is worth noting and it is worth wondering how to make the number of children in foster care in Poland less than 0.94% which translates into the number of almost 70,000 children in foster care. What's bothering me is that we don't see any change in the direction of reducing the number of these children. The service is expanding considerably, the money that is spent from the state budget is growing from year to year. This year's figure is about 2.5 billion, as presented in the Ministry's report, but this is almost 170 million more compared to last year's figure. Every year we spend more money on foster care. The number of these children in the year was slightly reduced, by several hundred children, but this is not a very clear trend. At least you have to notice it too. Therefore, the basis of my statement is to stress that a very large number of children are in foster care in Poland and that in my opinion we do not do everything And we should do everything possible. To reduce this number of children. Moreover, this number of children currently in foster care does not reflect the whole problem. We must be aware that children often stay for a short period of several months, in various forms of care, and then return home. So the flow through these forms of care and the experience of being outside the family concerns a group much larger than those of 70,000 children. Therefore, the problem is indeed powerful and it is necessary to wonder whether all services work well, so that the number of children placed in foster care is lower. I would like to note here a recent amendment which should encourage this number of children to decrease. But of course this amendment will not radically change the situation. I am thinking here of this amendment, which aimed to ensure that children living in families with a difficult material situation could not be placed in foster care because of this difficult material situation, only that then state aid, aid from local authorities, aid from various institutions should be sufficient to prevent these children from being placed in foster care. But it's just one element that's important to keep the kids out of this foster care. The Minister rightly pointed out the new services that have evolved or shaped in recent years in the field of foster care, i.e. the co-ordinators of foster care, which are still few But this is a new service that is actually just forming As well as family assistants, whose number is increasing significantly, because we have about 4,000 of them. Surely the well - arranged work of these services can cause And the experience that the Minister has referred to several times shows that this is the case. A reduction in the number of children in foster care. But in this case, I will allow myself to make a few comments. First of all, in order for these services to function well, family assistants must be well educated. They can't be random people. They should be the best social workers. And it's different. That's why I'm pointing to it. Secondly, it should be those who have job security and are not employed for short periods, because the lack of certainty will result in the fluctuations of these staff. Thirdly, we also have an element here, which is worth noting, an element of the Ministry of Poland. We are talking about family assistants, coordinators, but we forget that the same families are also engaged in other services that are subject to other departments. As far as the resort of justice is concerned, they will be guardians of the court, professional and social, as far as the resort of education is concerned, there will be educators, school psychologists, teachers in general. The number of these probation officers, as well as educators and psychologists, is increasing as the number of assistants increases. They often go into the same families, take the same action. Sometimes these actions are... their recommendations may differ. Sometimes they don't consult each other at all. Well, I would call for work to be done in this area. I know that some work on the ground of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Family has been undertaken to speed up and to include also education workers, i.e. psychologists and educators, because it is inappropriate when the same problem of the problem family solves several employees of various services, often proposing the same or not consulting with each other. This is mostly inappropriate from the point of view of working with the family, because entering a variety of employees or entering almost an intimate family sphere is a disadvantage for families when they have to explain their situation when they have to be subject to various instructions. And so it often happens that families are closed to work with various employees. Some families even say that they have to open the doors of their home every day to a representative of another service. Because it could be a representative of a non-governmental organization, it could be Caritas, it could be a school counselor, it could be a psychologist, it could be a family assistant, and then their situation would be checked by a social worker, a probation officer. With this situation... This should change because of the proper work with the family. So it should be that one employee who is competent, as if entering the family, into the situation of the family, helps. There is no reason for this family, when it is intensively working with the family's assistant, also a probation officer and a school counselor. So that I am signaling the need to step up work in this area and I would ask you not to actually treat this issue in a sort of way. Moreover, it is undoubtedly the case that this brings about costs. As I said, the number of different employees is increasing, the number of children is decreasing, and the number of problems we have in families is not decreasing. So that, because of the costs, it is also necessary to take account of the fact that this work is effective and that there is no excessive number of workers entering families. What are my specific remarks about reducing the number of children in different forms of care? I'd like to point out something that we sometimes forget. Generally speaking, we believe that it is necessary, necessary and we try to finance this area as much as possible, but we forget that there are children there whose parents live They're not orphans, they're very rare natural orphans, they're social orphans. For which parents have certain obligations, including maintenance obligations. Plenty of institutions release or determine very low amounts of parental participation in the cost of living children, which is not only material from the point of view of the state budget, but also important due to the bonding of parents with these children. If many parents react this way: if I have no obligation to contribute, then neither am I interested... This is a bad situation. I think it needs to be verified. I believe that parents should carry out this maintenance obligation on their children to the greatest extent possible, which will also mobilise them to contact their children. I also mentioned the 500+ issue, and I would just like to extend it to how it works, especially in the situation of relatives. Well, when relatives receive 500+, biological parents see this situation, there is no particular incentive for them to try to get the child back to them, and in my opinion it should be one of the elements encouraging them to fight for the baby. Of course, it's not like they're gonna take the baby because they're gonna get the money, but in the whole system, it's supposed to work well. After all, the family court will always check whether to make such a decision, whether it is in harmony with the child's welfare or not, but it is the parent who should fight for his child, so that the child is with him, and the various incentives in this direction, including 500+, are appropriate. Of course, when considering such a case, the court will wonder whether the parents have taken treatment, whether the treatment has been effective in certain situations, whether they have taken up work or whether they have improved housing conditions. But any encouragement is good here. I would therefore ask you to consider whether 500+ should also go to foster families. Because in my opinion this is the wrong solution, this money should go to biological families, when the child returns to such a family. Let me go back to some threads in a five-minute speech, because now my time has been exceeded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u55	Almost five minutes out. Please take the floor of Senator Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, we are talking about a very delicate sphere, a very subtle sphere, shed light on areas that are not always the subject of public discussion. They usually become one when there's something bad going on in there. Because foster care is undoubtedly such a very delicate, very sensitive area and appears in the media when children in this care, in institutions, are injured. Some of the things I wanted to talk to you about were Senator Szymanski. I'm just saying thank you to the previous speaker. But I will repeat, because good words can never be too much: thank you very much, Minister, for the quality of the document, thank you very much to the department, the ministry, for preparing comprehensive information, very specific, very reliable, which brings us closer to the reality of the development of the quality of foster care. We talked about it during the discussion and my previous speaker also discussed it. . about the quality of the assistant's work. This quality is varied, as it is true that very different people have come to the profession, often without proper substantive preparation, often without proper education. And that, I think, needs to be corrected. The work of a family assistant is really nothing but social work. With us, the role of a social worker is very often left, so to speak, covered, brought to the role of an official who goes, makes an environmental interview and pays the benefit. Well, ladies and gentlemen, social work is an area that, as Helena Radlińska said, teaches life, wakes up vital forces, awakens life force. And, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, family assistants carry out in the purest form this postulate of Helena Radlińska, nestorka and teacher of Polish social work. They teach families how to function correctly. Therefore, when we talk about the education of employees, the profession of family assistant, it's... In my opinion, they should have a social worker's education as first and primary. However, they must not be forgotten about their systematic improvement. I already talked about it in our committee meeting. It is so that social workers, family assistants, are really deprived of methodical and programmed professional improvement. I am aware that it costs money, I am aware that local authorities have limited resources, but we need to think about this process. If we fail to ensure the quality of education, the process of improvement, this quality of work will not be as it should be. If an employee has been educated, works for 5 or 6 years and can't afford it... you don't send him to any courses, to any improvement processes, then he can automatically go back in this job, so to speak. And this, Dear Sire, will affect the quality of his work and the work of the family itself. The great task, Dear State, in the development of family support, in the field of foster care development lies before local authorities. And local authorities are preparing for this work. According to the statutory records, we have three-year family support programmes at the municipal level, three-year foster care development programmes at the county level. Programming, planning of political processes at local government level is a very important process, but also a complex process. The legislator took care to oblige local authorities to plan, but forgot what was the key to the whole process. He forgot that any program that is not properly monitored or evaluated in such a higher form becomes merely a shelf, a program that is behind the shelves. If the Ministry of the Family is preparing another amendment to the Act, I propose that we introduce provisions which will oblige programme developers to monitor them every 2 years or every 3 years. Let this program be monitored. The Supreme Audit Chamber draws attention to the fact that these programmes are not monitored and that local authorities, the aid centres that implement these programmes, say that there is no such statutory obligation. This can, of course, be derived from the philosophy of programming, programming processes, but the absence of such a record leads to the fact that these programs are reminiscent every 3 years. If we do not monitor this systematically, it is not really possible to talk about obliging individual actors to take certain measures. I'm not talking, I'm not talking about indexing these programs, because that would be, dear lady, a lot. This lack of evaluation of programmes is also really the reason why there is no proper cooperation between the various actors in the local government. Senator Mikołajczyk discussed this subject in his questions. It is also, Dear State, that there is no need to unite certain entities around the family. I believe that the introduction of an obligation to monitor programmes would also have a positive effect, because all policy-makers would have to meet and discuss the problems that arise from time to time. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, speaking of foster care, we must not forget the process of emancipating pupils. This is an element that is very clearly flawed. We are talking about deinstitutionalisation processes, we are talking about the process of increasing the participation of small actors in care, and just as important is the moment when a child leaves foster care, leaves a family establishment, ceases to be a subject of various forms of care. He has to start a new life then, but there's a problem because he has nowhere to go. Local government representatives keep saying that they don't have money for sheltered housing, they don't have the money to provide these young people with life. And when they return to their homes, Dear Lords, for a reason they have stayed outside their homes, they may be subjected to processes of far-reaching demoralization, processes of the wrong... They go to foster care because the house is unfortunately a pathological environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to think about how effectively we can build the process of emancipating these pupils so that they can have a start in life. Unfortunately, it also costs and we need to talk about these costs, we need to remember these costs. Ladies and gentlemen, final sequence. Talking about foster care in the Senate is also a good time to thank all those who put their hearts and their whole self into taking care of their children every day without care. These are foster parents, these are people working in NGOs who run foster care institutions. To them, Dear Lords, for their great heart belongs to us, from the senators of the Republic of Poland a great thanks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u57	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Literally in two points, because it could be a short statement. The first issue will be to guarantee the contacts of parents with children who are placed in foster care, and the second is to join the thanks that Senator Mejer has submitted because they are very important. First line. Children have the right to contact their biological parents unless parents are deprived of parental authority and it is clear from the court's order that such contact should be deprived. What is the situation in practice? As far as institutional custody is concerned, the value of which has been questioned many times today... But we need to be aware that a certain category of children is needed, e.g. children who will be in institutions for a short period of time and are children of such age that they are not fit to be placed in an adoptive family or in a foster family are the teenage children who stay there for a short period of time. So deinstitutionalization does, but everything has its limits and we need to be aware of it. In general, in institutional care, institutions make sure that children are in contact with their biological parents, making efforts to do so, even encouraging them to do so. Unfortunately, I observe that this situation, when it comes to children placed in family care facilities, in foster families not related... The contact of a child with biological parents is often very difficult here, is sporadic. Very often parents from non-related foster families think that this contact is wrong and try to make it very rare, it only happened once a month. Since some children are to have a chance to return to the biological family in some time, being in close contact to maintain a relationship with their natural parents should be a goal and a task. I would ask the Ministry to examine this issue, because from various places of Poland there are very disturbing signals in terms of the realization of the possibility of contact between parents and children placed in foster care. As I said, from the perspective of the future of these children, in the context of the return of these children to the natural family, separating them or very serious limitation of this contact is very bad. This is the first case. Second thing. I'd like to join you in this thanks you gave the senator. In my previous speech, I was talking about how we should do everything to make foster families, foster families, foster homes as little as possible, but because they exist and because we are aware that they must exist, because there is a problem to be solved, that is, the care of children, which biological parents do wrongly... I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to foster parents, relatives, unrelateds, family workers, care workers and various other forms of care, including institutional ones, who put their heart, time and initiative into providing children with the best possible care, the best upbringing, the best possible introduction to mature adult life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-senat-28-2.u59	Thank you very much. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Bartosz Marczuk: No.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Mr Bartosz Marczuk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, for presenting information to the Senate. The discussion is closed. I'm calling for a recess by 10:30 tomorrow. Tomorrow's proceedings are resumed from the examination of point 12, that is, the law on the amendment of the Road Transport Act. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 10 minutes 28]]
