ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u1	Resume session. Ladies and gentlemen of the senators, please take your seats. I'm asking you to stop talking. Welcome to the Senate meeting, President of the South African National Provincial Council, Mrs. Thandi Modise. I welcome you very cordially and have arrived with your delegation. [[Applause]] We proceed to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on support for citizens' initiatives to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. Welcome to the party. I'm very happy to welcome you. The draft resolution under consideration was submitted by a group of senators and is included in print No 271 and the committee report In print No 271 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear South African Parliamentaries! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour of the Legislative Commission, but also as a representative of the applicants, recommend that the High House adopt a resolution on supporting citizens' initiatives to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. It is not necessary to convince anyone in this House that half of August 1920 was a time of great glory and victory of Polish weapons in a fight that seemed doomed to failure. We are talking about the Battle of Warsaw, between the Polish army and the Red Army, the Bolsheviks, 96 years ago. This battle was so humanly difficult to win because it seemed that there was no chance to defend Warsaw from the Soviet upheaval, but thanks to excellent command, thanks to the skilled intelligence work, thanks to the enormous determination and heroism of the Polish soldier, and mobilization of the whole nation, which supported as well as the help of friends Because we need to mention Hungary, which sent us ammunition, because our potential coalitioners then, well, did not pass the exam, was achieved unprecedented success. The Battle of Warsaw, also referred to as the miracle of the Vistula River, was the main moment of this battle on August 15th, i.e. on the day of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, was included in the most important battles in the history of the world. This battle in a sense also resembled the Viennese Victoria, because, as it was then, in September 1683 allied troops led by King John III Sobieski, so now troops led by Marshal Józef Piłsudski and Chief of Staff, General Rozwadowski led to the victory and defence of Europe. This battle has not only a great dimension on the Polish scale, it is also important for the history of the whole of Europe, if not wider, because the Bolshevik attack, which was headed towards Germany, was stopped over the Vistula. Let us remind you that all of this was done under very difficult conditions. The brightest Republic was barely reborn. After 123 years of partitioning, the state was in the organization, and yet the strength of the spirit, determination, heroism, wisdom of the then leadership elites, political, and military, and heroism of the Polish soldier and volunteers. In this battle, volunteers were also involved, who were almost part of the march. They led to this unparalleled victory. It so happens that in 2020 we will celebrate an even hundredth anniversary of this huge victory, victory not only for Poland, but also for the whole of Europe. In the community of self-government, in the social community And welcome to our discussions today: Mrs Olga Johann and Mr Jan Pietrzak A few years ago, the idea emerged to prepare for this huge victory and to permanently commemorate it in the form of a proper monument is an unprecedented event. There was the idea of a triumphal arch, which Mr.John Pietrzak spoke about, but also representatives of other environments, and as far as I know, there were even quite advanced talks with the capital authorities in the previous term, with the vice presidents of the capital city of Warsaw. There were even preliminary locations for the implementation of this project. Unfortunately, somehow this case is stuck at a dead end in the sense that time is running. There is a limited amount of time left, less than four years to implement this idea, which is the idea of the most worth supporting. I think there is no doubt in this House that this historic victory must be celebrated with dignity. That's why the idea was that in the form of a resolution of the Supreme Senate, which would remind us of this great anniversary... to adopt such a resolution. The resolution, which does not prejudge the way in which this idea is implemented, but is an expression of intention and indicates that the Senate of the Republic of Poland is in favour of a worthy celebration of this great anniversary. The draft was submitted, a meeting of the Legislative Commission took place on Tuesday, a discussion was held. Small amendments of a linguistic, editorial nature were made to the project, which did not affect the content of the draft resolution. In addition, the discussion began, because part of the senators felt that this should not be done in the form of a resolution, but in the form of an appeal, a document or an expression of the intention of the Senate, but a lower rank. I'm not gonna summarize this discussion. I suppose today these arguments will be repeated in the High House. I would just like to stress that this is not a special resolution concerning the event taken 4 years before this event, but it is only to draw the attention of the public and the authorities on which it depends that it is necessary to prepare for this event in a dignified manner. I will also remind you that this 100th anniversary will take place on 15 August 2020, after the next general elections after the next parliamentary elections. Since it is known that the preparation process is quite long, the Senate is already dealing with this issue. After the discussion, a vote was held: 9 senators supported this draft resolution, and 4 or 5 This resolution is therefore under discussion by the High House. At the end of my speech, let me read the text of this draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on supporting citizens' initiatives to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. In four years, the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, called the Miracle of the Vistula River One of the most important battles in our history, which also decided the fate of Europe. In August 1920, soldiers of a young independent Poland marched into the conquest of the world of the Soviet army on the outskirts of Warsaw and in many other places. It was thanks to their unparalleled bravery and heroism and thanks to the strategic genius of Marshal Józef Piłsudski that communism did not take over our country. This is what we want to remind Poland and the world of. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites all political and social circles to celebrate this anniversary which is so important for all compatriots. The Senate of the Republic of Poland supports all civic preparations aimed at reminding this historic event. In particular, it supports the construction initiative in Warsaw monument The monument commemorates the Battle of 1920 and asks the capital authorities to make every effort to make this historic and patriotic undertaking possible. The Senate of the Republic of Poland hopes that thanks to the joint social commitment and effort in August 2020, on the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, in the capital before the monument of the Battle, we will commemorate our heroes and pay tribute to them. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I see you're reporting to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u4	This resolution is generally correct, but I believe that the justification is not entirely complete. I mean the justification that we heard from the senator's mouth. Because not only did the Hungarians support us, but France also supported us very much. In addition, unlike other anniversary resolutions, we support the construction of the monument. Therefore, I have a question for the senator: will the Senate transfer any money to build this monument? If so, in what mode? [[Voice from the room: How much?]] [[Mr. Marshal, there was no mention of...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u5	Excuse me, just a minute. [[I'm sorry.]] Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u6	I very much like the content of this resolution, and above all I like the idea of commemorating our national successes in battlefields. I would like to ask if you would be able to count on the support of the senator for similar initiatives concerning the round anniversary of the Battle of Kuszyn on 1610, the Battle of Kircholm on 1605, the Battle of Chocimi on 1673 and the regaining independence in 1918. [[Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u7	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In answer to Marshal Borusewicz, I would like to say that there was no mention of this at the committee meeting. I confess to you that I am not competent to answer whether the Senate from its budget can support such an initiative. I think this is a question for the Senate Bureau and later, if any budgetary decisions are made, for the whole House. I answer to Senator Klich. I, too, am in favour of celebrating these important battles that the senator mentioned, and I also think we should remember these excellent events in our history, because, as we know, there have been disasters in it, but there have also been wonderful, unprecedented victories. And I am convinced that 2018 will be the year of the century of regaining independence It will have a very suitable frame. As far as I know. Here I go beyond the role of committee rapporteur, this is my opinion and my knowledge It is at the moment that very advanced preparations are underway. I think we should be satisfied with the course of these celebrations that we will be witnessing if, of course, we live to see it by 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you also represent the applicants. The content of this resolution is very correct and very important, but if this support from the Senate is not to be financial support or if you do not know anything about it... What kind of support is it supposed to be if it's not financial? We don't know if it's financial support or not... What kind of form is that? The word "support" appears twice in the text of the resolution. The point is to know how we are supposed to support these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Wind, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u12	Mr. Senator, because Marshal Borusewicz mentioned that in addition to Hungary there was also France... I understand that this does not concern the text of this resolution, but this is my question. After all, there was aid from the United States coordinated by Senator Hoover. That was very important, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u13	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In answer to Senator Bear, I would like to say that before calculating the costs of carrying out such an undertaking... it is important that the preparation be made first. I imagine it that way. This is my opinion; there was no discussion on this at the meeting of the Legislative Commission that there would be a social committee or any other committee, in any case an honorary committee, which would hold talks with the city about the location. From the information I have, it appears that in 2014, but even before the November elections, there were advanced talks with the city, with the then vice-president Mr Jack Wojciechowicz, who was responsible for this area of functioning of the Warsaw government at the level of the city board. These conversations pointed to a possibility... There have been talk of two locations for this project. First location On the Saxon Axis; second location On the Vistula River. Unfortunately, at that time, for reasons beyond the control of the social and local communities, it was not done to formalise these arrangements in the form of a resolution of the city council or any other document which would ultimately determine the location or cause this location to be possible. This resolution supports the idea, but perhaps, as the Senate Bureau and the High House will consider it appropriate, it will be possible to provide material support. I don't know whether symbolically or otherwise... We as representatives of the nation, as representatives of our constituents, support a certain idea, while the costs of implementing this... Well, that's a general social goal. Since the city has such opportunities and carries out various forms of commemoration of various important events, it seems to be able to bear the costs of implementing such a project with its own resources, with a budget of 12 billion. I'm talking about the annual budget. It seems that the capital city of Warsaw has a budget of 12 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u16	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have doubts that this should be a resolution. Maybe it should be an appeal. It's about this one sentence, and it's about supporting the initiative to erect a monument. Since we support the initiative to erect a monument, we should know what this monument will look like, what shape it will be like and so on. In the meantime, we support an initiative that we know nothing about. [[Oh, no, Mr. Marshal...]] We don't know who the organizational committee is, we don't know... It seems to me, therefore, that the adoption of resolutions on this matter, instead of making an appeal, is definitely premature. Thank you. [[Don't answer that. Let's vote, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u17	Senator, don't pay any attention to the other senators, because anyone can ask the question they want. Please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we're different here. I don't feel competent at the moment to determine what the monument should be, what shape it should be in, what space it should be in. That's what specialists are for. Let us give free access to specialists who will determine this in the course of the established procedures. At the same time, I would appeal to the High House not to switch roles so that we do not take on the role of designers of the Senate collective project on the realization of such a monument. [[Let's not play...]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u19	You're welcome, Senator Grubski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u20	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One form of funding will definitely be a public fundraiser. What kind of cost are we talking about when it comes to such a monumental structure? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]] [[This was not discussed at the committee meeting.]] [[But we're talking about support.]] [[There was a question. Adam, do you want me to answer or not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u22	Mr. Senator, I can't tell you this, there was no talking about it. I also believe that it is not the Senate's role to discuss this issue. If the Senate were an investor or a gestor of such an undertaking, then probably the relevant committee would analyze the financial documentation, determine the level of expenditure, it would have to be included in the budget of the Senate Chancellery. We didn't deal with such things at the committee meeting. Let us leave this to professionals who have more knowledge than we do and will be able to carry out such a project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u23	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u24	I would like to appeal to my colleagues on the Platform: finish off, gentlemen, spare the shame because the guests sit and listen. You've got some problems on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u25	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u26	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Senator. I'm talking to the senator, who spoke out of the blue. It is precisely so that there are no such problems as the construction of various monuments in different cities. That's why you need a precise definition. [[But in what way...]] Especially since I'm having this resolution... [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much, but this, I understand, is not a question...]] That's the question. [[There you go.]] You returned to me, Mr. Marshal, despite my sympathy for you... [[It's true, but I don't want to...]] ...offensive speech of one of the speakers. Probably from the Platform. Now, let me get to the question. In my statement... Maybe. I like this initiative because it ends in some concrete way, and in the final part is the statement that in particular supports the initiative of erecting a monument in Warsaw. I conclude that this initiative is already in place, so I would like to ask the rapporteur. [[It wasn't at the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u27	Of course the idea is. I said this clearly during the presentation of the justification, at the time of the presentation, when I presented the draft resolution. This idea was born in social and local environments, it exists. [[But there's a resolution...]] We support this initiative, but also other initiatives that may arise, so here is the form of plural: we support... Although, in particular, we support this because it specifically concerns... [[So what's the initiative? The question is, who and by whom...]] It is an initiative to build a monument in Warsaw commemorating this event, a permanent monument, permanently connected with the ground, built in accordance with building law, approved and realized after a competition decided by a competent authority, financed in part by the local government of the capital city of Warsaw. [[I'm sorry, it's not exactly specific. Can you read about this on the website?]] [[Not yet.]] [[The resolution is, yes. The draft resolution is there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u28	Are there any more questions? If not, thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Żaryn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Nice guests! I would like to address the questions of the honourable Senators of the Civic Platform only in one sentence. Please and I appeal that you do not obstruct all matters that the Law and Justice raises, because there is a line behind which there is self-discredit. [[Applause]] The Battle of Warsaw is really not a coincidence... [[And we're not questioning that.]] You'll have a senator... [[But we're not questioning that. Nobody's questioning that the Battle of Warsaw...]] No, except for Mr. Klich... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] One second, now I've got a voice. Apart from Senator Klich, who has spoken, I hope, on behalf of the Civic Platform, the rest of you from the Civic Platform have spoken, I hope, not on behalf of this party. Period. [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] And now ad rem. It is a resolution that supports citizens' initiatives to commemorate this anniversary. Why today, why in 2016? I would like to be well understood, which does not mean that what I say in a moment must be accepted by all senators sitting on the left, on the right and inside. The first reason from my perspective... I'll talk to you about the next reasons, don't be afraid. There'll be a dozen, but the first reason is the most important. Namely, they did not exist in this resolution... We're after the election. In November 2015, power in Poland democratically obtained a formation which had on its banners a slogan that historical policy is one of the most important elements of what will be implemented during its reign. Ladies and gentlemen, after this. At least that's what I think. There is also a danger. It is a danger that paradoxically during the Civic Platform there were a lot of patriotic environments which, in contrast to your governments, decided to take certain initiatives, carrying out the Polish state. One such initiative It was not the only initiative in Poland, because there were hundreds of them, thousands of them were what Katarzyna and Jan Pietrzak started, representatives and founders of the Patriotic Society present here. I am now responding to the gentlemen of the Platform who seem to be pretending not to know that there is such a Patriotic Society, and they are asking whose initiative is supported by the Senate. Yes, it is primarily the initiative of the Patriotic Society, which is not by chance represented here by Mr.John Pietrzak. But you know that. [[Okay, okay.]] [[No. How do we know that?]] [[We don't know.]] How? So where do you live? In America? Africa? [[Don't interrupt.]] [[It wasn't a dot, it was a comma.]] No, period. Well, some things are obvious to people who are active in public, and the senators are active. Come on, gentlemen? Okay, period. I'm sorry about the emotional speech, but there's really a point where you might want to think about it. Mr. Klich thought about it. Why couldn't the others? I'll answer if I'm attacked. Okay, I'm warning you. Because this is a very important issue in the history of Poland. [[We're very scared.]] Yeah, I can see that, 'cause you're interrupting. Okay, now it's really a dot. Well, the Patriotic Society, headed by Catherine and Jan Pietrzaki, is one of those civil initiatives that were created in the past. And one of the reasons for supporting this initiative is that from my point of view it will be a very important signal that the Polish state, despite a very radical change in the formation which started ruling in Poland, does not receive, and supports Polish self-government in matters concerning Polish patriotism concerning the certificate. And one of the most important reasons for this resolution, in my opinion, is this support. The expression'support', which concerns citizens' initiatives, self-government initiatives where society, or at least the party that appears to be e.g. my electorate may suspect that the Polish state today is interested in taking patriotic initiatives and dissuading society from expressing its patriotism. And the word'support' is a very important word in this context. That's the first reason. The second reason, ladies and gentlemen: 2020 appears to some countries, judging by the comments, as such a far-reaching future that it is not worth taking care of today's date and interest. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what kind of project to win. It's a Patriotic Society project or something. This may not have been clarified, but there are some suggestions for building this triumphal arch. One of the proposals It doesn't matter to me personally, but of course it doesn't matter that it's the closest one to me, it's the creation of a triumphal arch over the Vistula. What does that mean? This means a triumphal arch that will bind two banks of the Vistula. Now start your imagination and think about what an organizational and financial effort it is. I repeat: I am not saying that this one must win, I am just saying that there are several concepts drawn so far in the form of civic, spontaneous works that have been created on this subject. Now there's no place to present them, because it doesn't matter much to you, to us. And the important thing is that the preparation of this monument is not a matter of a year, 2 years, but it is a really serious effort. And I want you to be aware of that, too. Another reason why this support needs to be emphasized very clearly today is that the authorities of the city of Warsaw behaved ambiguously, to put it mildly. I mean, it's either rachitic or because they didn't want to compromise themselves, they supported each other, but they supported the whole thing to build up in place. And therefore this support is needed because, as you know perfectly well, without the goodwill of the authorities of Warsaw this monument will not be. How is the Senate supposed to press the authorities of Warsaw? I understand that the Platform has its ways, because Mrs. Gronkiewicz-Waltz is a member of this party, but we as Senate don't have them. Therefore, support it is also the emphasis on the authorities of Warsaw not to build in place on this matter, but to definitely say: yes, we are on the side of citizens' initiatives, we are in favour of this monument to stand. How else are we supposed to reach the Warsaw authorities? The best I can do is appeal to Mr. Klich. 'Cause it's not for the rest of the country so far. In order to really support us and go to the authorities of Warsaw with such an appeal, it is worth that, apart from the monument in Kałuszyn, there should be a triumphal arch commemorating the Battle of Warsaw. And another case. Namely, without a doubt, this support is extremely needed because it will be an element of. I repeat: the element of the ceremony which is not in our competence today, nor in our capacity to implement it, because we do not know who will rule Poland in 2020. But we can get that crew ready to run today. Whatever her name is. For some of the things that they will have to say either for or against. I am undoubtedly one of the people 'Cause I'm a historian and I'm being asked by today's authorities. I hope you will be able to answer that question. And I say this publicly because I was already publicly attacked by a newspaper that has the word "paper" in the title. Namely, I was attacked, that I supposedly ordered I don't know what form this was supposed to be in. The prime ministers and presidents of Western countries and the United States to kneel before us today for the victory of 1920. And besides, the paranoia that apparently embraced the author of such a text... I want to tell you that there's something going on. It means: the leaders of Western countries, Western Europe, the United States, and at this triumphal arch, but also in Radzymin, Ossów, should undoubtedly come to Poland for the 2020 celebrations... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. They should kneel in these places, but not to bow down and pray, but to kneel before the Polish people for what was done by us in 1920. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u30	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as international delegations are concerned, the delegation of the president of Thandi Modise must leave us, which is why... [[Applause]] Thank you. [[Let me use the next five minutes in the next round.]] Good. I'd like to inform you that at 12:00, we'll have a break for two and a half hours. If we don't make it by 12:00, we'll have to continue this debate after 2:30. Please consider that. Thank you very much, Senator Żaryn. Now, Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! This resolution shows that we are thinking about the future. The 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw is only due in 4 years, but the Senate thinks of a worthy celebration of this event today. The most worthy of this great historical event called the miracle of the Vistula would be the elevation in Warsaw of a monument, a triumphal arch, which would commemorate this battle, and especially its heroic participants, forever. Why is this battle called a miracle on the Vistula? That's what I'd like to devote my reflection to. When our state regained its sovereign state after nearly 150 years of captivity in 1918, it was common to speak of the resurrection of Poland, the gift of freedom, the gift of God's providence, but, most importantly, the freedom regained by the intercession of the Queen of the Crown of the Polish Mother of Czestochowa. It was then at the request of the Polish bishops that the Holy See, although not immediately, introduced the call of the Queen of the Polish Crown into the litany of Loreta, and also approved the form of the Holy Mass about Our Lady of the Queen of Poland. The first feast of May 3 celebrated in the reborn homeland as a central national holiday gathered thousands of pilgrims on Jasna Góra. General Józef Haller, creator of the Blue Army, welcomed on Jasna Góra as a national hero, said in his speech to soldiers: at the foot of Jasna Góra all Poles' aspirations should be united, who will lead other nations in freedom. When in 1920 Polce threatened to attack Bolsheviks, there was a call from Jasna Góra calling for all Poles to defend their homeland. Thousands of leaflets were printed, which through the pilgrims reached all corners of the country. The Polish bishops gathered at the Jasna Góra monastery at the Polish Episcopate Plenary Conference at the end of July 1920 re-elected Mary to the Queen of Poland, at the same time calling on everyone to trust in her care and to engage in the defence of the endangered country. Seeing this, Chief of State Józef Piłsudski, convinced of the universal recognition of the authority of Jasna Góra, made a suggestion that the government and the Supreme Command of the Polish Army should move to Częstochowa. The marshal assumed that such a decision, made public, would increase the morale of society. Unfortunately, however, his argument was not understood and supported by ministers. On the other hand, social appeals from Jasna Góra resulted. Thousands of volunteers who volunteered for the Polish army, mainly for General Haller's army, came earlier to Jasna Góra to recommend the care of the Queen of Poland and ask for victory and a happy return home. On August 7th, the novenna began on Jasna Góra begging and penitent in the intention of saving Poland. The number of faithful was so large that all the services were transferred from the basilica to the Square before the Summit. Tens of thousands of people lay cross for nine days before Jasna Góra, begging Our Lady for intercession and the rescue of her homeland. On 13 August, after the Red Radzymin Army had captured them, the Bolsheviks stood at the gates of Warsaw. They were only 14 km from the center of the capital. There's already a euphoria in Tuchaczewski's staff. The Red Army were sure that entering the city was a matter of hours. One last bullet and the end of the Polish fight, Tuchaczewski reported to Moscow. The Bolsheviks were so sure of victory that the newspapers that appeared in Vilnius on August 15 included the titles: "Warsaw's taken!', "Red flags over Warsaw!', "After Warsaw' the whole red Europe!'. Without, of course, going into the details of the military operation, I will remind you that on August 15th, the celebration of the Assumption of Our Lady became an extraordinary thing: the winning march of the Bolsheviks was stopped, the Poles took the initiative. The commanders on both sides were astonished by this unexpected change. Tuchaczewski explained his defeat with the words: "The Poles were lucky. And the Poles for their answer had the words: "It was a miracle which Our Lady made. And then everyone's eyes went back to Jasna Góra, where the novenna had lasted since 7 August. On the day of the victory, Archbishop Theodorovich of Lviv said with all conviction that Mary used to do all her affections for the nation in her great festivals. When at the end of the novenna, on 16 August, Prior of Jasna Góra Piotr Markiewicz informed the praying pilgrims about the victory, everyone was very enthusiastic. They cried with joy, they threw themselves into each other's arms, they cried out, "A miracle has happened! ' On 15 August at Warsaw, the victory was described as a miracle on the Vistula River, linking it to the intercession of the Queen of Poland of Jasna Góra. In fact, it was a breakthrough victory for the war, saving the young Polish state, as well as Europe from the communist revolution. But to confirm that it was a miracle, there were also extraordinary signs, you can say: signs from Heaven. Namely, during the fights at Radzymin soldiers experienced such miraculous signs. In the records obtained from Soviet prisoners there is information that soldiers of the Red Army saw on 15 August Our Lady over Polish troops. They were to cry out: "We are not afraid of you, but we will not fight it. But What must be surprising? Polish commanders didn't listen to these explanations, rather they just claimed victory. Marshal Piłsudski, generals Rozwadowski, Sikorski, Żeligowski or General Weygand argued about the authorship of the battle plan and concept. Only General Haller spoke about the intercession of Our Lady of Częstochowa in the tilting of the victories on the Polish side. He personally confirmed it after the battle, praying and lying cross in the church of the Most Holy Savior in Warsaw. Adam Grzymała-Siedlecki, then a war correspondent, a book about the year 1920, titled the Miracle of the Vistula. He pointed to the complexity of the miracle. Namely, he miraculously called the union of the government, consolidation of society and awakening the spirit of bravery and fighting among soldiers. As he wrote, the believing Polish society experienced the presence of Mary Queen in the history of Poland in a new way. In a letter addressed to Polish bishops on September 8, 1920, Pope Benedict XV emphasized the importance of the Battle of Warsaw not only for Poles, but for all the nations of Christian Europe, writing that the victory obtained through prayer was the blessing of God the Helper, and it was strange for good not only to your people, but also to other peoples. Who does it not know that the insane pressure of the enemy was intended to destroy Poland, this premier of Europe, and then to undermine and destroy all Christianity and the culture based on it, using to promote this crazy and morbid doctrine? According to these words and from the experiences of defenders, not only soldiers, but also volunteers, they not only defended their homeland, but also Our Lady herself defended the endangered Church and Christianity in Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u32	Thank you very much, Senator. One correction for the break. It turns out that we can continue the proceedings between 12:30 and 13:00, which means we will have one break for the exhibition, from 12:00 to 12:30, and then a second break, at the request of the PiS Parliamentary Club, between 1:00 and 2:30 p.m. This means that if no one else comes forward for discussion and all the senators follow the time limit, we will be able to vote on this resolution just before 1 p.m. You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know how important the date of the Warsaw Battle, a miracle on the Vistula River. My predecessors have told this story here, so I will not repeat it again, but I have a request for you to listen to what others are saying, with a little more understanding. I said one thing at first. I wonder if it should be a resolution or if it should be an appeal. Mr. Żaryn just spoke to Senator Klich, using a return to appeal to the President of Warsaw, using a return... [[Senator Żaryn.]] Mr. Senator. I said, Senator, that's exactly what I'm thinking, because if the initiative has the form of a resolution... And there were all kinds of anniversary initiatives. I performed with one myself when it comes to June 1956 or the Greater Poland Uprising. Although in Poznań we celebrate these anniversaries, every year we are here in Warsaw, we come from Poznań. Historical policy may have been conducted differently, but I don't want to go back to that. Please note one thing It is about what should be included in the resolution and what should be included in the appeal. If we have a specific initiative that we can support, of course it should be a resolution, but in this case I was wondering... I don't know if I'm right, maybe I'm wrong, maybe there might be a resolution. In any case, my question was whether it should be a resolution or whether it should actually just appeal at this point, at this stage, when it is not yet specifically defined, what it is to be, what it is to be, because I do not know what it is to be... It's possible that we should... I understand that there will be a competition, and it will all take place in such a way that we will have no doubt, but it would be good if we could see in the resolution what we support. That's all I said, that's all. And since it was so taken that we're against it, me and Senator Klich... Well, I'm sorry. We've all known since we were kids. And every senator should know What was the significance of the Battle of Warsaw for the whole of Europe? Of course, this is an important date, and it is good that we are getting ready in advance, because the idea is that the celebrations of the 100th anniversary have a really big dimension. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn. This is the second performance, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, senator. I clapped, I hope, also with great understanding, that I would say so, not only by showing support for the words you said. But I'm gonna cut to the chase because I'd like to say two more things to you. First thing. I think the resolution is more valid, no doubt, and that's for two reasons. On the one hand, there is also an appeal in its content, and therefore it has this substantive message, which would also be in its appeal. But on the other hand, it also has a much more serious dimension, not just a more serious dimension. Although it should be important. Our senators, because we have taken care of a stage of preparation and we have been actively involved in this phase. It seems to me that we should often look in the mirror and be aware that it is good when there is a fair face in this mirror, so we should make such resolutions. But of course, our comfort is not the most important. It is more important that this resolution, as a document of the higher legislative chamber, will undoubtedly force the reaction. And that, of course, is the point. The point is to be heard, but not to be heard by the Senate, but to be heard by those bottom-up initiatives that are today and encounter various problems. What's more I am not a futurologist, and none of us, so we do not know the future, that at a certain stage due to the multitude of initiatives we will, also thanks to this resolution, be a party that will be asked for advice. We can be a party to be asked for an opinion on how to address these various initiatives in substance. Let us not shirk such future responsibility. ♪ 'Cause in turn ♪ And I'm saying what I said once again. The self-governing, civic, bottom-up initiatives have this to do with the fact that the initiators determine the conditions. We have no obligation for them to know what this future monument will look like. That's not our role. That's what this is about, if we want to answer all the questions and think that we're the decision makers. Well, we're not, we're supporting. In this connection, I repeat once again that the most important point of this resolution is to support, not to occupy, to embezzle. Therefore, it is very possible that we will be in such a situation that those directly involved in the implementation of this beautiful idea will be looking for an authority to turn to to support this authority of the state. I would very much like the creators of these citizens' initiatives, after our adoption, when they seek such support, to come to us, to the Senate. And we wish for it because that's what we're here for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rulewski is next up for the vote. But the question is, is it enough for you to have seven minutes left until recess. [[Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome. 'Cause we really have to stop at 12:00.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The history of the adoption of resolutions, appeals in the Senate is that it is rare that in such an important, great case of which there is full compatibility, both as regards the evaluation and the need to adopt a resolution, especially since it concerns the 100th anniversary... Well, it has not happened that in such a situation the professor's instruction has been completed with a dot. That's what the discussion's about. So it's just a comma. In order for what was, I hope, the intention of the authors of this resolution to be as perfect as possible, to be done as possible. And second note. It's the first time in my practice, maybe I don't know everyone. The resolution, the end of which is not only an appeal, but instructions of execution, in quotes, because it says straight: Mr. President of Warsaw, do both. In general, resolutions are open. Now, about this dot of yours, don't discuss the Pietrzak family. Well, I have to tell you, that remark was addressed to me, I'm talking about my personal feelings. That whatever you say, I support the Pietrzak countries for two reasons. I support them because Mr. Pietrzak is a man of our generation. And apparently a few more generations, I won't judge. And above all, his wife, whose name you named, comes from Bydgoszcz. So this will be Bydgoszcz's contribution to building this... Yeah, what? [[Applause]] Then I have no intention of... Of course, I would have brought something to that resolution, too. Because the Battle of Warsaw entered into the blood of Poles and lives, even in the distant Bydgoszcz, which barely regained, after almost 200 years, independence, became part of the Polish state... I also remember talking to my uncles, my parents, who said that it was not only soldiers who fought near Warsaw, but also railwaymen who brought soldiers to... So that this resolution is not just a resolution about armed combat, the front or the battle. She's about a national break. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u38	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wind is next up for the vote. But there's four minutes left. Is that enough for you, Senator? You're welcome. [[Maybe a short time.]] [[Let's vote it out. Maybe after a minute...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There is no doubt that this is a very important event, a very important date in the history not only of our country and nation, an event that has changed the fate of the world. We know many facts, in part they were quoted today. But I've been mobilized here with an expression... Because first there was a speech about Hungary, then Marshal Borusewicz spoke about France. I have said a few words about helping the United States, but it is worth saying more about this, because then Senator Hoover organized a great deal of financial assistance. There was no time to send weapons here, money was sent. It was a very big help. Besides, Mr. Hoover was the President of the United States from 1929 to 1933, which means he was Roosevelt's predecessor. His great merits were honoured with honorary doctorates of the Jagiellonian University, Warsaw University and Jan Kazimierz University in Lviv. In 1919 his name was given to the street in Warsaw. Piłsudski sent a message to Senator Hoover, and in 1922 a monument of gratitude was erected in Warsaw for the United States of North America, a monument to Xawery Dunikowski's chisel. This monument no longer exists, so maybe it's worth talking about here. Hoover was an honorary citizen of Warsaw and Lviv. Then he organized great humanitarian aid for Poland. I had the chance to be at Hoover Dam in Colorado, Nevada, but it's not important. It is also worth mentioning the airmen, the Squadron of Kościuszko from the United States. So that there are many, many things that show that we still don't know much. And that's why this accent in the resolution, about the many initiatives, but also about the triumphal arch or monument, is extremely important. For example, the role of Polish decryptors... We know the Enigma case. And it was already then, after all, only thanks to our intelligence did everything work out. So that I fully support the resolution, and the broad one, and the detailed one. The Battle of Warsaw, called the Miracle of the Vistula And here the character of Our Lady, Mr. Senator Ryszka beautifully quoted here... The Battle of Warsaw, the Victoria of Vienna These are the moments when Poland entered the fate of the world. Oh, and I'd like to end by quoting... In July we had World Youth Days and Pope Francis said such a sentence about good memory: that good memory is the memory that builds. Therefore, I think it is worthwhile that the resolution discussed here needs to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bear signaled he had a brief appearance, right? [[Maybe after the break, 'cause it's almost 12:00.]] I was going to close the discussion, and after the break, I would just move on to the vote. But it's okay if you... [[Let's vote.]] [[Okay, let's do this in three minutes.]] [[How to vote? We're not voting.]] So do you want to speak now or... [[After the break. We're not voting now.]] [[Voice from the room: No quorum.]] Well, I'm afraid the discussion will be extended. But okay. I'm declaring a recess from 12:00 to 12:30, subject to another recess from 1:00 p.m. So if we don't have time to pass the resolution by 1 p.m., we'll vote at 2.30 p.m. Thank you very much. Aha, and also information: At 12.00 the exhibition will be officially opened. The defense of Grodna 1939. The exhibition is located on the ground floor. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 00 to 12 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u41	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on support for citizens' initiatives commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! My speech was kind of provoked by Senator Zarin's statement. The resolution adopted here is extremely important. I did not hear from the Senators of the Civic Platform that this resolution was irrelevant to us, irrelevant. And the fact that we're asking questions... We just want to clarify some things. I asked Senator Jackowski a question about this support. I asked how these activities were to be supported. Why? Well, if we were to reach out to the dictionary of the Polish language, we would notice that in this dictionary we have the following 2 definitions. First of all, help is given to someone, especially material aid. Secondly, combat activities aimed at strengthening the main attack or combat troops leading to such action. That means the word "support." That's why I asked if there was any financial support behind it. I don't know why Senator Żaryn read my question as a sign of lack of patriotism on my part. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is rare in this House that one of the senators should make speeches in the form of a plaza. [[Happens more and more often.]] I felt... well, uncomfortable. If Senator Żaryn says there are frictions in the Warsaw authorities, there is an attempt to delay such an initiative... After all, all of us senators have a tool in the form of a senator's statement. There is no problem to make a statement to the President of Warsaw and ask at what stage it is, what steps are planned, etc. I've never seen Senator Żaryn make such a statement. If he'd put it together... In response to this statement, all this information would be included and we would be clear. It's all available to the public, it's on the Senate website and you can read it. That's all this is about. I will personally, of course, vote in favour of this resolution. And I never thought otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u43	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that this citizens' initiative has been discussed here in the High House today. I am convinced that a unanimous decision will be taken to adopt this resolution. I wouldn't have forgiven myself if I hadn't spoken during this important debate, this important discussion and recalled my grandfather, Charles Golby, who took part in the Battle of Warsaw in 1920, was wounded with a bullet and pierced with a Bolshevik bayonet. He came back from this war, but he only survived three months. He died in November 1920. He was buried in our family cemetery in the Elm. I wanted to mention this because, as I have already pointed out, historical memory is very important, the memory of our heroes is important, and it was a heroic attitude, he dared to take part in this battle. But you know, then a severe disease, because it was an infection, he didn't survive it, he only lived for three months. I'm not hiding that it's a very important story, and it's a good thing we're reminding it today. I would like to thank Senator Sagatowska, because we are also opening the exhibition and remembering Grodno today, and 1939 at her initiative. This year, in 1939, my father, who was born in 1919. Just after that, in 1920, his father died, you can say, he was killed by these wounds when he was only a year old, and he had been transported to Siberia, to Kamchatka, near Japan, then passed the entire battle route, and received many decorations. On the occasion of today's debate, I wanted to mention my father and my grandfather, who joined the heroic defense of our country, our homeland. As I said at the very beginning, this is my speech today. I would like to thank for the debate and for this initiative for all those who have contributed to their organisation. I don't think there's gonna be a dispute about whether it's a resolution or an appeal. I'm sure it won't be any different. But I know that we will make a good, right decision, which practically has one purpose: to mention such important historical events, actions that were often very heroic and victorious, but they were also painful, because many compatriots paid the highest price. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u45	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I think on behalf of many of my colleagues at the Civic Platform Club, I can say that we didn't and we have no doubts... [[It can't be.]] ...even though you don't understand, Senator Robert. At the break, I'll explain to you what history policy is in the release of the Civic Platform, Dear Robert. [[Will you have that much patience?]] We have no doubt about the intention of this resolution or appeal. I would also like to thank what you have already done here, Senator Golba, all those who have contributed, who have initiated this undertaking. I would also like to ask Professor Żaryn to take an example from Senator Golby, especially from Senator Ryszka, who showed how to talk about a resolution that should connect Poles. This is a Polish event, not Senator Żarin. [[Right.]] I want to say what comes from our minds and hearts, that each one of us is the heart and mind behind the draft of this resolution. I think I speak for most of the Senators of the Civic Platform. The second part of my speech I would like to address to the senator, Professor Zarin. Well, what Professor Żaryn did is an example of how you can spoil something that should connect us, how you can spoil something that should be a common ideal. I want to tell Professor Żaryn, based on his philosophy of conduct, that there are no bad questions, only stupid answers. We have heard from this speaker speeches in an offensive tone and other things that the professor in this speaker presented. In addition, in the style of the professor who asks the question of how people who don't know that there is an association that mentions... In other words, it is a good tone to know that such an association exists and that it operates in the Republic of Poland. I would like to ask Professor Zarin if a man with a professor's title knows the Bernoulli equation. After all, a man with the title of professor should know Bernoulli's equation. I'll give you dollars against... [[Senator Grzegorz Pekkis raises his hand]] I know, a friend does. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But Professor Żaryn as a deeply educated man, and, as I can see, having all the brains, he certainly doesn't know this equation. I can give you dollars against nuts. Therefore, I would very much like to ask that this kind of behavior ends with something that I missed in Mr. Zarin's second speech... I'm sorry, I'm upset. Everyone has a right to be upset. I'm appealing to Professor Zarin because he has one last chance to say something that connects in common, good initiative, and... [[It's gone.]] [[In corrigendum mode you can...]] In corrigendum mode. This is what Senator Golba was talking about, the unification of all those sitting here and all Poles towards an event that should be an event for all of us as one nation. That is why I appeal to Professor Żarin once again: Professor, there is a word that starts with a "p" and sounds "sorry." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u47	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u48	In fact, I would also like in a spirit similar to the one in which my esteemed previous speaker, Senator Czarnobaj, spoke just now... Ladies and gentlemen, it seems some misunderstanding to say that someone, a Pole with a healthy sense, could question the importance of the historic event of the Warsaw Battle, and the effects of this battle. I was talking about it at the committee meeting. I'm the vice president. And Senator Shark's friend, too. The district of the Central Pomeranian Football Association. And I think... I mean. I know that many organizations that bring together different people, with different views, will support any initiative that is associated with the Marshal of Piłsudski and which should have a worthy place of worship in Warsaw. [[No celebration...]] Please note that this is not law and justice. At least that's how I remember the Polish Army's Day was established to celebrate this battle. And every year Okay, I'm gonna stress this. We are celebrating the feast on this occasion. The point is to celebrate this great event so that this event is celebrated every year. And it's celebrated, and there's no doubt about it. And we're all in the same line. We can't share in this case, we can't own just one concept association... I ask you, as has been said, this is not an occasional resolution; after all, the applicant has said it. In fact, occasional resolutions are always taken... And certainly on the occasion of the 100th anniversary such a special resolution will be taken by the Senate. I think that's clear. This is an appeal to support citizens' initiatives... not to celebrate, just to prepare... That's what I think. It is about preparing a celebration, because it will undoubtedly be a celebration of the 100th anniversary and by the Sejm, and by the Senate, and perhaps even by the National Assembly. Because it requires a celebration. Senator Klich spoke of great events, such as the 100th anniversary of statehood, for which we must prepare, I am convinced. Or the 100th anniversary of the reborn Senate, in 2019, and those great battles, which are the pride and pride of everyone, I emphasize, the Pole. That's why there were questions, specific... 'Cause, in fact, to support the preparations... What kind of preparations? I would be absolutely wholehearted for a beautiful triumphal bow. For me alone, a triumphal arch is the gate. After all, in ancient Rome, this was the gate under which it was passed. I suspect a bow over the Vistula would be for boats, canoes, but not for people who could walk under such a gate. I'm just thinking. But of course, we're not talking about details here. I think it is obvious that we must prepare for this historic event. We must support all initiatives of all organizations that worship Okay, I'm gonna stress this. Each year, this great event, among them. The Association of Footballers of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u49	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have a family history similar to that of a fellow senator here. My grandfather took part in the Battle of Warsaw... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...with three gunshot wounds, he was treated in a hospital in Jablonina. And in the evenings, people listened to stories about what it was like. He survived. We did it. One of the most important points he has always stressed is that at that time the whole nation was on one side, united as rarely as possible. And I think that at this point in time, while dealing with the matter under discussion here, we should repeat what was then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm just saying...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u51	Just a word... [[In corrigendum mode...]] [[And I'd like two more sentences.]] Excuse me? [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[And me.]] Are you in the middle of a discussion? [[Yes. We are to refer to what was said here.]] We're having a discussion right now. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. [[Yes. In corrigendum mode.]] Senator Żaryn, in corrigendum mode. Two words, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't hear those statements, but I was informed that there were voices at my address. If I have been well informed, I would like to apologize to you and the ladies of the Civic Platform very sincerely if any of you are offended. It's an insult, if it happened, and it was dictated by the fact that in your feelings I claimed... that you were feeling such ethical discomfort after my speech... All the more reason to apologize. Because your ethical discomfort is very good for you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u53	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We are voting on a draft resolution on supporting citizens' initiatives to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has adopted a resolution on civil support... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, reading the results!]] 76 senators voted in favour, 3 abstentions, no one opposed. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on supporting citizens' initiatives to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. [[Applause]] On the basis of the article. 48 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate I request that the agenda of the current Senate meeting be deleted from the agenda: the Act on the Construction Contract or Services; Senate Prints No. 269 and 269 A and the review of this law at the next meeting, i.e. The twenty-seventh Senate meeting on 5 and 6 October this year. I'm declaring a recess... [[No, no.]] [[I'd like to ask...]] [[Voices from the room: Is there an objection...]] Is there an objection? [[There's no objection. It's just a question.]] Yes? [[If this point is withdrawn and we were supposed to do it after the break, where do we start after the break?]] [[From CBA.]] We'll start with the CBA. [[Okay, thank you.]] I'm declaring a recess until 2:30 p.m.... In the absence of any objection to the transfer of a point concerning the Construction Contract Act, I find that the Senate has accepted my proposal. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 50 to 14 minutes 32]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u54	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's operations in 2015. The text of the information can be found in print No 140. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the information submitted at its meeting on 7 June 2016 and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome to the sitting... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u55	Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate Rules of Procedure requests that the section on changes in the membership of the Senate committees be supplemented by the request of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs contained in print No 280. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u56	Is there an objection to this conclusion? [[No.]] There is no objection, and I therefore inform you that the request has been accepted. I would like to welcome the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, Mr. Ernest Beja, present at the Senate meeting. I ask the Minister to speak and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I was honored to present a report on the activities of the Central Anti-corruption Office for 2015. I would like to say that as regards the scope of the tasks and powers of the Central Anti-corruption Office, which is a special service designed to combat corruption and the economic interests of the state, it has not changed in the law. 2015 is so groundbreaking that in December 2015 the leadership changed. I have been entrusted with the duty of head of the Central Anti-corruption Office since 1 December, so the report mostly concerns my predecessor. I just want to give you one more piece of information. Well, at the end of December 2015, I set up a team to carry out audit and control activities in the field of activities carried out by the Central Anti-corruption Office not only in 2015, but also in the years 2014, 2013, 2012... Since the end of 2009, i.e. since Paweł Wojtunik became head of the Central Anti-corruption Office. That's what I'm saying in front of you. The team started its work at the end of December 2015. Submissions have already been made in this respect. I'll allow myself to say a few things during my report. Well, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the results of the CBA's actions and results, I will start with budgetary matters. Well, the CBA budget in 2015 was, ladies and gentlemen, I'll use the data here. Exactly 114 million 409 thousand 452 zlotys. Why am I talking about this? I want to show you over the course of a few years how the office was financed, or, in fact, underfunded. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the office was established at the end of 2006 and started its activities at the end of 2006. The first full period of activity is 2007. At that time the budget was PLN 120 million and this is also a significant date, because in 2007 there was a change in the government team. Since 2008, the office's budget has been gradually reduced because in 2008 it was only 100 million, and in the following years, respectively: 106 million, 106 million, 108 million, 111 million, 111 million, 109 million in 2014 and in 2015 there were 114 million 409 thousand 452. In comparison, this year the budget of the office is over PLN 156 million. It's a proof of that. also about priorities and the real funding of the office. As I say, in the first full year of activity there was PLN 120 million of the budget, I am talking here about the year 2007. For this reason, the Bureau has for many years not been able to develop, both personnel, structurally and in terms of the number of delegations, and it can also be said that there has been a regression in the areas of advanced technology, in the area of the purchase of basic goods, such as means of transport or other necessary things, needed for the institution's development. Of course, it can be said that, in this state of affairs, money was sufficient only for the office to remain at a level that would enable it to carry out its tasks. As regards the staffing status of the office, at the end of 2015, the office had exactly 761 officers and 118 employees. In this respect, I also want to show some evolution. At the end of 2009, when Mariusz Kaminski was dismissed as head of the Central Anti-corruption Office, the staff status of the office was basically very similar, but the number of employees was much smaller. Namely, there were not 115, but, ladies and gentlemen, about 30. So we're dealing with a situation where there's been a decrease in the number of... And there were over 800 officers back then. And we are dealing, ladies and gentlemen, with the situation that after that the number of officers has fallen and the number of employees has doubled. This also shows some regression when it comes to the development of the office. As far as the results are concerned, as you know, the Central Anti-corruption Office has operational powers, investigative powers and control powers. It is also a special feature of this service: it is the only one of the special services that has control powers that have slightly made it similar in this respect, in terms of powers, to the Supreme Audit Chamber. I am talking about the very way in which the control is implemented, since the scope of this control is obviously narrower, because the office can control statements of property and economic decisions and economic processes concerning the use of public funds. Now I'm going to go over the statistics, and I'm going to start with the operating sphere. Well, ladies and gentlemen, And I would ask you to bear in mind the number of officers here, which means that we have about 760 officers in CBA units in 2015 225 started and 247 operational cases were completed. Officers ran a total of 488 of them. 435 preparatory proceedings were also conducted. 225 cases have been opened throughout the year, as I say. 155 were carried out on their own materials and 70 on materials entrusted by the prosecution. Thus, these figures show that the number of preparatory and operational procedures is very high, especially since this is not yet all activity, because we still have a range of control procedures, both in relation to the control of property statements and in the area of control of widely understood decisions and economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem begins when we look at the structure of these matters, their weight, their quality. These are also the findings of the audit team. I would like to say that, in general, we can see in 2015, but not only this year, a certain regression as regards the conduct of serious cases that really affect the key interests of the state, affecting high-ranking people with high public functions. Maybe I'll say this. The cause of the good that CBA is leading is a matter known to the media; here we are dealing with an investigation, with operational work. So-called. The Podkarpacka scandal is indeed, ladies and gentlemen, a case which the office was pursuing in a fair manner. There has been a arrest of high-ranking people; we had already this year arrested on corruption charges by the Deputy Minister, there has been a arrest of a marshal, and finally a very important Member, former head of the parliamentary club. [[PSL.]] Yeah, PSL. This is indeed the derivative of this case. Of course, this case isn't over. However, I would like to say with regard to other matters that actually outside of this big case Despite the fact that statistics look very good, as you have noticed The quality of the cases raises serious concerns. We have observed that actually in each delegation there were cases which were, in a colloquial way, so-called. Statistical tractors. So these were things that actually remained... well, if not outside the office's jurisdiction, then the office's jurisdiction in such a case was at least debatable. I will give an example of one of the cases that has been conducted over the years in one of the delegations, in the Krakow delegation. In fact, the case involved family pensions because of the death of a loved one. Later, we faced a situation where the person entitled to a survivor's pension was entitled on condition that he continued his education. And there have often been cases where such people have stopped studying, and their pensions have been paid. Ladies and gentlemen, this case has lasted for several years and as a result, 50 people have been charged. So we have suspects, we have charges that remain in the office's jurisdiction, you might say, related to the embezzlement of public assets. In a few years, the scale of losses was, say, slightly over PLN 300,000. So, as you can see, statistically, it looks great, but as far as the subject matter is concerned, he's at all... Well, it's not actually a matter for the Central Bureau of Corruption, it's a matter for the police unit. Right? This type of pension case can be seen in almost every delegation. Like I said, it looks good in the formal report later. However, there is a lack of serious issues that really concern areas that threaten the State, its economic interests and which would result from Article. 1 of the Central Anti-corruption Bureau Act. Ladies and gentlemen, one of his functions was to carry out the so-called. shields, formerly called an anti-corruption shield. This was supposed to be a function of preventing, countering certain negative phenomena, if we are dealing only with a violation of the law, and yet we are not dealing with a crime. The Bureau, through the anti-corruption shield procedure or the anti-corruption shield procedure, was to inform the authorities of the State in a more rapid manner to respond to infringements. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it was so constructed that the Central Anti-corruption Office did not actually deal with the key areas of economic life, where the biggest expenditures were made in terms of state money. I am talking here about privatisation processes, I am talking here about issues related to infrastructure construction, where the largest EU funds have been absorbed, and I am talking here about issues concerning the flows of large funds, where the State Treasury was involved. Ladies and gentlemen, CBA over the course of these few years, e.g. It didn't determine anything about big privatisations. I will exchange privatisations related to Polkomtel, privatisations related to PKP Energetics, here I will say a little more, because it was just in 2015, here I will stop Previous privatisations related to Enea. Here, this function of the anti-corruption shield was not performed by the office. The formal reason was that the competences between the services were so divided that these things were to be dealt with by the Internal Security Agency. It was also not coordinated at all between the services and the CBA could not use one of its very good, accurate and soft instruments, which is control, so basically we did not have control in large companies of the Treasury. The CBA also had no insight into what was happening in these companies of the State Treasury, or had limited discernment. If reports were produced, including in 2015, concerning certain key processes, these reports were often retained by the office's management. Let me give you one example: privatization of PKP Energy. As you know, the privatisation process was launched in 2015. In fact, the Bureau began its activity in this area after the information received from the opposition Members who submitted a letter, a notice that there could be a breach of the law. Only then did the head of the CBA order the examination of the problem and the preparation of the analysis. It was in July 2015. In a few days, an analysis was prepared which gave a clear negative recommendation regarding the sale process of PKP Energetics. As you know, PKP Energy is a natural monopolist, a supplier of electricity, and a company, you can say, from a strategic point of view. But it was not only for this reason that there was a negative recommendation, it was also poorly assessed to prepare the process itself. How did it end? Well, one of the deputy chiefs said that it was too late to give that information, and it's actually pointless to pass it on. The signal has been blocked. It was July 2015... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry. And, as you remember, the transaction was finally completed in September 2015. PKP Energetics company was sold to CVC Capital Partners. At the moment, both the preparatory proceedings in this area and the investigation of the underlying transactions and the privatisation of PKP Energetics are ongoing. All I can say is that the CBA is also involved. In view of the information it had at its disposal, as well as the information it received as a result of the actions taken at present by the new management of both the Ministry and the companies. Because it was part of PKP PLK, it was part of the PKP PLK infrastructure. Another example of such omissions is the case at the beginning of 2015, where the CBA received information which indicated involvement in the lobbying process on the construction of the Bernau Szczecin pipeline. The lobbying process involved entities related to Jan Kulczyk, and the information indicated involvement of high officials in this process. I'm talking about ministers here, the prime minister's top advisors. The CBA also negatively assessed the very idea of including a private company, i.e. Polenergia and Gaz-System, in this business project. Such a draft report has been prepared. And here again, the opinion of one of the deputies who said that we would not confusion the Prime Minister and confuse him with political issues... Besides, the chief doesn't like political issues either. This report was not forwarded to the government authorities, the Prime Minister. As far as the case of high-ranking illegal lobbying is concerned, only a very short information was provided indicating that such lobbying pressure was exerted on high-ranking officials. However, the meaning was distorted in such a way that the information was changed and it was not informed that they themselves were active when it came to lobbying, and not only passive, and which external forces were not known. Anyway, it was released a lot later. The transaction itself Let's call it that. It was not realised only because at the beginning of 2015 the negative involvement of companies controlled by Jan Kulczyk in the privatisation process of Ciechu was revealed. Of course, Ciechu's privatisation took place in 2014, but at the beginning of 2015 there were final repercussions, information about it appeared in the media circulation. Here, in an open sitting, I can only say that the knowledge of the CBA's management at the crucial moment of the Ciechu privatisation process was insufficient, even though information on the background of this process was sent to organisational units. This also shows that there is no flow of key information or little interest in the management of the office with this key information, and this again is a consequence of the fact that this information was not really required from the office. Government factors didn't expect bad information to undermine... or embarrass those who decided on key processes. You may remember that the privatisation of Ciechu is 2014. The agreement itself is June 2014, a separate story. All I can tell you is that there's an ongoing investigation into this case and it's about the back of the road. In fact, the whole process and the whole transaction related to the privatisation of Ciechu. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the other commitment is concerned... It is good to show this by example. Well, the Central Bureau of Corruption, as you know, was involved in solving the so-called. infoafers. This process lasted for many years, we were dealing with an investigation. It was about irregularities in the Ministry of the Interior, accepting property benefits by a high-ranking official, director. All of this took years, but caused some involvement of the Central Anti-corruption Office in IT and IT processes. On this basis, in 2015 the Central Anti-corruption Office prepared a report on the Central Centre of Information Technology, the agenda of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This report was really intended to inform you that the system of state registers created by COI, or Central Information Technology Centre, which was established as an entity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs It does not function and does not meet the parameters that may be problems with this register. As it turned out, this information was true, because actually until today this register has not received full acceptance, references. However, with regard to this information from the beginning of 2015, whose project was prepared by analysts, it was not sent either. One of the deputies commented on it this way: the Prime Minister will not do anything with this information. Another information concerning the IT area, which was not sent from the Central Anti-corruption Office, was on the preparation of a report for the President of the Council of Ministers, that a contract with Asseco and Kamsoft for the operation of the information system in the NFZ could come to a disadvantage for the Treasury. That's the point. as if a systemic problem concerning key information systems in budgetary units, offices, companies with the participation of the State Treasury. Experts from the Central Anti-corruption Office reported that the signing of such an agreement is very seriously dependent on one service provider, so that the rights to source codes, copyrights, licenses are on the part of the contractor, that the subsequent development and maintenance of this system are actually monopolised by a single service provider, which will naturally win subsequent tenders. It's not just an NFZ case, it's also, like I said, different. The most famous is the case of the ZUS. As you will remember, contracts for the Central Information System of the ZUS since the end of the 1990s, about since 1999, in short, have been signed in a similar way. This information was again not communicated to decision-making factors and, of course, the agreement was signed under unfavourable conditions. This is just a few information I can give you in an open session. As far as the quality of the investigations is concerned, as I said, ladies and gentlemen, there were no investigations on really key issues. I also want to say, and that's all you can say. The fact that the office's insight into what was going on in the State Treasury companies was, by the way, very limited. And that too, you might say, was a very large deficiency. As far as control is concerned, as I said, the Central Anti-corruption Office can control economic processes and property statements. And I would like to say that in 2015, the officers of the office carried out 218 inspections, started 149 inspections, finished 159. The majority of inspections concerned local authorities at the level of the municipality, district, persons employed in units subordinate to the municipality or old age. So here we have again a deficit of control of key processes, such as. privatisations, such as the execution of large tenders, for example for a gasport. Outside of the office's interest, there were e.g. all invitations to tender I'm talking about earlier years, but I'm talking about 2015 too. . concerning infrastructure investments, i.e. carried out by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, and these are billions of expenses. In addition to the interest of the office, as I said earlier, there were processes in which the State Treasury or the Treasury's agendas were actually spent the largest amount of money. The Bureau focused on local governments and possibly smaller cases, as I pointed out here, That's what we're gonna call them. That are less controversial and will not cause resistance to the management of the office. I would like to say, ma'am, that as far as checks are concerned, in addition to the control of economic decisions, there have also been checks on claims of property. In this respect, as regards the control of claims of property, they mainly concerned municipal authorities, for which 45 persons have been audited. The managers and employees of the state offices of 21 persons, local government officials and persons employed in units subordinate to the seniors 14 persons, local government officials and employed in units subordinate to the voivodeships 9 persons, parliamentarians 8 persons, representatives of the judiciary 7 persons, managers of the state positions according to the Act on the remuneration of persons holding government positions 7 persons, remaining 4 persons. And as far as justice officials are concerned, I haven't seen any review of the judges and prosecutors. Here we are dealing with lower-level officials, so we can talk about a certain disability when it comes to people who really have key positions. As far as the logistics situation of the service is concerned, it must be said that for years the problem of the office remains the lack of real estate in Warsaw. The headquarters has two properties, while the property at Ujazdowskiego Avenue is far insufficient, and this is not the best place for a special service headquarters. So we have one property on Ujazdowskiego Avenue, and the other is on Poleczki Street. This also causes major logistical problems when it comes to how the office operates. As far as delegations are concerned, and we have 10 of them right now, that is also a problem. Looks different. In the case of a delegation in Bialystok, a new seat was opened this year. After a few years after the investment process, the delegation in Lublin also has a new headquarters, but delegations in Poznań, Łódź, Szczecin or Gdańsk have old headquarters, but not all of them meet the optimal conditions necessary for the functioning of these delegations. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, in general, the problem is that these delegations count no more than... The average number of officers in each delegation is thirty-several, and this is far from sufficient in terms of the scope of the tasks placed before the Central Anti-corruption Office. I want to say that this year the recruitment process has been launched and that we will strengthen the office staff. There is a need to recruit new officers, especially as regards financial analysis, analysis of complex economic processes. We also need more investigative officers. I must say that the policy of the previous management was based on the fact that only police officers, most often from the Central Bureau of Investigation, were accepted, and that it was one-dimensional, there was no desire to look for other specialists and experts. As far as more workers are concerned... That's interesting, too. This is, of course, statistical information, but the increase from 28 to 118 shows that the office grew logistically, with the greatest needs not related to logistics, but to people who directly carry out tasks, i.e. carry out investigative, operational and control work. And in this respect, especially when it comes to financiers, economists, lawyers and people who conduct investigations or investigations, there are indeed large shortcomings. Well, there are also large shortcomings in IT specialists. Besides, I think that's the problem. not only the Central Anti-corruption Office, but in general the state institutions, if that is the case Of course, because of the lack of financial competitiveness. For a few years... I ended my activities as Deputy Head of the Central Anti-corruption Office in October 2009. What I'm saying is that at the time, we had a cell at the Central Bureau of Corruption, which was involved in the research and development of IT infrastructure, including advanced operational technology. After these few years, not only did I not find the continuation of these cases, but it turned out that there was a discount, and we are really starting with some basic things. Of course, the office has the right tools, but... as you understand, the world is moving forward. In previous years, the office was concerned about the management, so that the office could try to implement, implement and implement certain solutions with its own strength. Right now, as I'm saying, we're back to that, we're trying to resume this kind of activity. I can therefore say that we are dealing with a long-term regression. Office over the years The year 2015 was the culmination of this. It wasn't a well-oiled and well-working machine. This was maintained and functioning thanks to the commitment, which I would like to stress, officers of the office who were able to find information and pass it on. They could run big cases, too. However, I must conclude that the actions of the previous management did not aim to ensure that these big issues were courageously and thoroughly explained. I would even like to say that the policy of the previous management was aimed at keeping the office next to very serious processes that influenced the state's functioning, the state of its finances. This lack of involvement of the Bureau in some areas later translated into macroeconomic results, as well as the fact that certain decisions taken by the governing authorities concerning e.g. privatisations were finalized with the detriment of the State Treasury. At the moment, this is the subject of thorough investigations and other activities carried out by the Central Anti-corruption Office, but not only because of other law enforcement authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u58	Thank you very much, too. Would any of you senators like to ask the head of the Central Bureau of Corruption? Senator Klich is the first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u59	Thank you very much. I listened attentively to this presentation. I would like to ask you how many of the more important things you have told us about in 2015 have been in the prosecution's office to this day. Is it all or part or majority or minority? It's just that we have an orientation on what the finale of these cases is. Using this minute, I will also say that, if I remember correctly, there was coordination at the level of the College of Special Services led by the Prime Minister about the anti-corruption shield, which was a fundamental domain of the operation of the office and other services. This was both when Mr Mariusz Kaminski was head of the CBA and later when Mr Wojtunik became head of the CBA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll start with the second issue about the anti-corruption shield. This is an idea that was created in 2008. It was about preventing... They wanted to increase the emphasis on the preventive function, without giving up the oppressive function, because it was understood that the oppressive function was the ultima ratio, the implementation of the principle of criminal prosecution. Except it was a matter of declaration. We have not dealt with a real normative act that would sanction it in some way. I ask you, over the years, until 2015, there was really no resolution of the Council of Ministers, there was no no normative act to speak precisely about the procedure in which this is being done, nor what exactly this is supposed to be. In fact, in 2015 there was only a resolution, we already talked about it, actually the Prime Minister's decision. This is indeed the first time that has taken the form of a formalised document. However, this was far from sufficient as regards the shield itself. This document shares competences too late, too late it was decided that the CBA would take care of, for example. the pharmaceutical sphere, and the ABW will be tasked with overseeing infrastructure tenders and privatisation. It was before that. only in the message dimension. This is a very far-reaching imperfection in the implementation of this idea, the foundation of an anti-corruption shield. In short, there were meetings of the College of Special Services, but when it comes to real coordination, it turns out that one service did not know what the other service was doing, and this is a bad situation. Few of this, it seems that because of this lack of coordination, certain areas were at all outside the interest of both sides. In addition, it must be said that the signal information that was supposed to come from the anti-corruption shield was blocked at the management level. I said a few examples, but these are not all examples. So we're dealing with a targeted policy that's designed to construct a service system so that it's as uncoordinated as possible and that As I say, the services could not learn about their areas of interest. Here's what I'm gonna say. In the earlier period, when I had the honour of running, co-managing the office, this coordination was clear and decisive, and the exchange of information is crucial here. This is also the case at present. The lack of exchange of information at the level of Heads of Service leads to absolute system dysfunction, additionally causing loss of resources and misdirection of resources. That's the biggest charge. What I'm saying is that the coordinating function that was being carried out... In fact, there was no minister of the coordinator, only the secretary of the college, who was de facto only a proxy of the Prime Minister to receive correspondence from the Heads of Service and could read the letters that had affected the services. But you understand that the coordinator's role is not to read the letters, but to make decisions here. Some of these decisions are crucial, little of that, these decisions are sometimes taken in a situation of information deficit. So this exchange at coordinator level is an extremely important instrument. You can see that now, ladies and gentlemen. It seems like it's really working. It can't be that we're going to create the so-called. Silos situations allowed one service to do something to a certain extent without knowing what the other service was doing. We understand the confidentiality of service activities at certain stages, then this knowledge should be regulated as much as possible, but there are times when this knowledge needs to be passed on to the right people, including decision makers. It seems that here these deficits were visible and decisive, such that certain processes could not be seen at all, that the services had not seen them, and this later, of course, translated into real economic decisions or the emergence of certain phenomena. On this occasion, one thing must also be said about the fact that the provision of proper information by the service can cause e.g. an appropriate legislative response at legislative level. We're dealing with a VAT extortion process, aren't we? It turns out that the VAT increase made by the previous government team, the increase to 23%, resulted in a real fall in VAT revenue to the budget. But it wasn't just because people stopped paying, it was just what it really was. It can now be seen on the basis of the information we have at our disposal a certain system process. Certain mechanisms have been introduced, let's say, invisible at first sight, but very important in terms of the process of intra-Community delivery of goods, such as. fuels that actually generated dysfunction in this process and facilitated the process of VAT extortion, making it difficult to conduct a detection process, while the detection process is only a reaction to pathology. If the fuse hadn't been removed from the bill... This has already been changed and we see the first results, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the tax on goods and services, but this requires the response of the services that need to see... That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen, but there have been no reports. Why, for example, certain institutions have been introduced into regulations... It's amazing, actually. There was a diagnosis on the level... This was not carried out at the normative level at all. It would be enough to change certain issues with regard to the functioning of the laws and regulations to it, and this alone would result in sealing the entire system. This is a matter of coordination, exchange of information, etc., which was not there. The shield itself... I do not think that the shield, the anti-corruption shield, was a bad idea, but the implementation of this idea was, in my opinion, insufficient, left huge gaps, which later led to the kind of pathology I mentioned. As for the D.A.'s office, about how many serious cases have been brought to the D.A.'s office, I don't have one, Mr. Senator, because... And what does "serious" mean? I would like to say that there was, in my opinion, a cyclical phenomenon at the end of the previous presidency when many procedures were launched in October 2015 concerning, let's call it, phenomena with a high quality weight. Please note that there were elections in October 2015 and that was already after the presidential election. That's one thing you could see. As far as investigations are concerned, they have a rhythm. I'm sure some of those cases that have been handled as operational cases are still ongoing and have found their dimension in the prosecution's office. However, please bear in mind that the initiation of an investigation does not yet mean that there are charges, a transition to an in-person phase. If the senator isn't satisfied, I'll try to clarify my answer. [[You're welcome.]] We'll fill it in and give it to you. [[If you don't mind ad vocem, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u62	If I may, I would ask for a written reply, as the Minister suggested, to the following question: which of the cases listed by the Minister in this presentation of serious cases ended with a request to the prosecutor's office suspected of committing a crime? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u64	I would like to ask you who set up the CBA's business assessment team, whether the Special Service Coordinator, the Prime Minister, or the CBA's management, and what consequences have been drawn from this report. In your statement, you have presented us with quite a devastating criticism of the activity... even the omission of certain matters, even concerning privatisation to the detriment of the State Treasury or the failure of the CBA's management... That's the expression you used, maybe I won't quote exactly that the Prime Minister isn't gonna do anything about it. Let me remind you that we are talking about 2015, the information relates to activities in 2015. One more question: don't you think that an institution such as the Central Anti-corruption Office should only deal with serious matters? After all, she is not called upon to deal with trivial matters, because such matters in resorts or institutions should be dealt with by themselves. This is a special service called for special matters, which is serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u65	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u66	Senator, full agreement that the CBA is a special service. The idea of setting up the CBA was that its task was to combat corruption and the economic interests of the state. It is simply that state management and parliament have decided that corruption is so destructive, it strikes the essence of the state's functioning, it degrades its structures, that it is necessary to establish a service of a special nature because of the nature of the task to be faced with. Right? So it's true. All the tasks that the CBA should carry out, in its assumptions, must have a serious dimension, all the more so that it is a small service in relation to others, personnelly small, so every case... [[With a lot of authority.]] With a lot of authority. Indeed, as I said, these are exceptional powers, because compared to other services... There were also voices that the CBA was just a strict service. criminal prosecution and operational work functions, and that is not so because the office has control instruments, so here is also an accentuated preventive function, prevention and recognition of certain phenomena, not only crimes, but also cases of breaches of law. So every case implemented by the CBA in its idea should be a serious matter, unfortunately, in practice it can be different. And as I have shown here, there have been many cases that can be classified as completely unfit for CBA activities. This is actually a waste of strength and resources, these little ones, but later in statistics, ladies and gentlemen, it looks good because we are dealing with... I'll show you in a minute. I really missed it. The statistics of people who have been charged, because it looks very, very good too. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the charges have been filed for one moment. Nearly 500 people a year. So this is, you could say, an excellent statistic. But if we put this together now with the investigation I've presented that these young people, leaving their studies, didn't report it to the appropriate authority... This is indeed a crime, and we have 50 suspects in this case, but you understand that this case causes us to have a very large number of suspects in statistics. Yes? What if we looked at the statistics from the other side? What can be the measure? Of course, there are different meters here. Let's just say temporary arrest. But to be clear, it's not a substitute for punishment, it can't be, and so on. But let's just say that every arrest case is serious because of the use of this very vulnerable measure. It was those, as I said, that about 500 suspects we had 29 temporary arrests. And I can also show you the year 2009 I'm going back to him because that was the last time I was a deputy. It was 67 at the time. Of course, it is always possible to make a plea that the prosecution was oppressive at the time, etc., but, ladies and gentlemen, temporary detention is applied by the court, not by the prosecution. So that also shows the quality of things. I can say in the most vague way that there are some advanced forms and working methods that also show the quality of the cases being conducted. It's about... I can't talk about statistics here, because it's not a place and forum, but I can only say that methods such as. The controlled granting or acceptance of the asset benefit was really used in a very, very limited way. And this also shows a change in quality, and this is such a major change in quality, of CBA-led cases. This method, of course, could be said to have aroused controversy. We have case law, there were very serious disputes, we had very loud cases. But you have to say one thing in practice. That this is a very good instrument to combat corruption, to combat corruption. And the very occasional use of this instrument shows that the quality of cases conducted by the office has fallen I'm not talking about other methods anymore. This is also significant, and this is also a fact that we have identified. I am talking here not only about 2015 but also about earlier years. Those statistics weren't... [[Will there be any consequences?]] As far as the consequences are concerned, I'm telling you. That's right. [[Except for the change of direction.]] It's been sent, apparently, 12 reports of suspected crime. These notifications relate to management activities and are being investigated at the moment. I can't say any more because some of them are covered by a clause.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u68	I have three questions. President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz said that, despite the numerous visits of CBA representatives to the bus, none of this office signaled her corruption threats or violations of law in the process of reprivatization. What are the data... how many inspections or operational or other activities have been undertaken there? The second question is about wiretaps. We've been attacked many times, so many people have been under surveillance, eavesdropped. What does it look like under your rule? Has the number of these activities decreased? And how is it supposed to increase its effectiveness against reducing the scale of these measures? And a third. I would like to ask if we as senators, when we report cases of corruption, have a right to information about whether or not. the procedure continues, whether or not it has ended and what it has ended. I ask you this because in my case it was because I reported a suspicion of corruption in my district and I heard from interested people: well, Mr. Senator, the proceedings have been terminated! And then someone else met me and said, "You know, I've been interrogated on a case." I'd like to ask if it makes sense for me to say... I think this information would be useful to the senators, because people come to us, they tell us things, and we, as public officials, have to react legally. From here I ask: do we have the right to this information? Finally, there is only one thing I would like to say about the economic committee, Mr Marshal. It is not that the previous government did not react to VAT fraud. We've taken action... The words of the Minister, the current minister, were: unfortunately, criminals quickly learned to circumvent the rules we introduced to prevent extortion. And I will repeat after the Minister: we are introducing new solutions without a 100% conviction that the criminals will not learn to bypass these laws either. So maybe the Minister's opinion was a little harsh, because it is and will always be a task for the next governments to... and others will say it wasn't close enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u70	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with the VAT case. It is true that criminals modify their actions, ways, modus operandi, etc. It's all true, but you have to get closer and see which rules have been introduced. I know that the introduction of these rules led directly to facilitating their tasks, not hindering them. There's no doubt about it. Right now, I'm asking myself, why was this done? From what I've seen, what I've been familiar with, it's not like these regulations were supposed to seal something or... On the contrary. I'm saying it with full responsibility. Introduction of certain entities that could be outside Poland and at the same time mediate in the fuel trade, because at the time of intra-Community delivery, when goods from another country entered Poland... In fact, the obligation to pay tax on goods and services only arose when the person who imported the goods was selling it further. However, in the case of imports, the obligation to pay a tax on goods and services arises immediately. And now the question is: what if the product is not sold at all, but again exported abroad? Isn't that a duty at all? We've been dealing with a case that's very bizarre, and in my opinion, actually, when I saw it... One of the large refineries bought the goods in the form of fuel from... well, from the VAT chain, ladies and gentlemen, from a company that was actually from the Czech Republic, and the goods were imported from the Netherlands. Then what's the refinery for? It was because it was worth buying this stuff because the stakes were 23% lower. There was simply a disappearing entity who did not pay VAT. And there are certain mechanisms embedded in it that make it easier to hide. But they can be eliminated. Someone who deals with such phenomena knows that. But there was no such will, there were no such solutions. The solutions went in the opposite direction. I say it with all my determination. When it comes to the matter of Warsaw land, it is a long story. I want to say But I can't talk about everything. The CBA also dealt with this issue during the previous management. Not much, I'll tell you more: back when I was co-directing the office, this case was also of interest to the office. Only that one of the cases that were conducted and highly advanced was actually completed by the previous management. So it is not true what some media say that CBA in the days of Mariusz Kaminski did not deal with the matter of these lands. Not only was this case dealt with, but there were also effective arrangements that were concluded by the new management after 2009, because the case did not work. Now we're really looking for the shreds of this case, because it turns out that the information we had at the time was destroyed, and it's needed now. And that's first of all. During the days of Paweł Wojtunik's leadership, the office was also involved in this matter and was investigating it. At the same time, I would like to say that the material which was prepared by the office to some extent by the case of Warsaw land and handed over to the prosecutor's office... Ladies and gentlemen, the D.A.'s office, which is also an appalling matter, refused to initiate proceedings on the basis of this material. And it was, among other things. material from operational work, with advanced operating methods. The D.A. refused to open a case during the previous management. At the moment, this case has been reopened because these findings are very important. Of course, the office is now involved because the information about the Warsaw land in the office was. And all I can say is that our audit started formally in April, administrative control of decisions concerning Warsaw land. In fact, the increase in these land decisions took place, ladies and gentlemen, after 2010. And that's also interesting, because it really correlates with driving buyers out of the Defilad Square. Do you remember that the project was to be located in this square of the museum or other development, and in fact it turns out that it was meant, I ask you, that this land be effectively reprivatised, i.e. taken over by, let's call it, former owners Or else: they're in private hands and developers build skyscrapers there. This is a cloud of business, ladies and gentlemen, among other things, in the area of Defilad Square, not the establishment of a museum or a public utility building. And all the decisions that were made within the Real Estate Management Bureau were headed precisely in this direction. What's more, we know that BGN employees were perfectly aware of when decisions are about to accelerate. That is when the right people make their applications. Well, that's the subject of the study... I can't say any more... [[That's enough.]] ...because we've got a case that's kind of established... But this is a fact which was passed on by the media, that it was so strange that only the conclusions of a specific, very narrow group of lawyers, those involved in this process, were considered, let's call it this: without undue delay. On the other hand, people who were real heirs have sometimes waited years because pretexts were made to make no decisions on a given case. But as I'm saying, we've got right now... Oh, let me tell you something else. Here again we are dealing with the lack of any coordination of proceedings, because some things were done by the police, some things were done by the prosecution, some things were done by the CBA, but all this was completely uncoordinated, some did not know about others, they were not exchanged information. Now it turns out that in the prosecutor's office there are some traces found, that in the district prosecutors' offices in Warsaw there are cases of individual, individual tenements. So it wasn't... The level of the district attorney's office itself, ladies and gentlemen, is that these cases have not come to a higher level, as is now being done, and it also shows the approach of the prosecutor's office, the law enforcement authorities in these cases. As far as wiretapping is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, statistical information... It just seems to be information that can't be made public. That's the information the Attorney General gives. All I can say is that the number of bugs mentioned, the number of those 2 million, let's call it, the bugs that we talked about in the media... Those aren't wirets. It's just and it's just... Well, that's all I can say here. The question of certain phone records, also related to the fact that... These are data from operators. Each service request regarding the establishment of a telephone number is for the operator one query, i.e. as if activity in this area. But it's not a wiretap, it's just a number question. We have four large operators, and they're still small. And the service must ask each of these operators to determine a given number as regards the so-called number. Prepaid, which means no subscriber. And then the servants are counting... I mean, the operator, passing the statistics to the supervisory authority, shows something like that. Already as an interest in the service. So what else is the issue of activity when it comes to subscription arrangements and billing analysis, and what else is the issue of operational control. Here they are actually, you can say... About the CBA... It's a row of hundreds a year... [[We have a right to information.]] Now when it comes to senators, MPs, that's reporting... Ladies and gentlemen, it is always worth reporting. The notification from each parliamentarian shall be treated seriously by the office. I would like to say that in 2015 all applications to the office, such external ones, were over 15 thousand. So, as you can see, there are a lot of them, given the number of officers. Nevertheless, every application from a parliamentarian is carefully examined. We're trying to answer. But we can't always answer... The Bureau cannot always say that we have started, because of the secret nature of certain arrangements. But as far as we're concerned, let's call it a public act, which is, for example. Initiating control, that's the kind of information I'm gonna say comes back. Besides, we also publicly report such checks. But, as I say, as a matter of principle, we can say that we are investigating things in a general way. And it doesn't always translate into a satisfying answer that we started some form of work. That's what I'm gonna say in the service language. Well, because we can't tell you that. As far as the investigation is concerned, information that an investigation has been initiated may be given. It should only be remembered that from the moment the information is transmitted to the start of the investigation it may take a long time. If we start an investigation at all. Because here again I'm talking about a criminal issue, and I'm going to say criminal activity as a final right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u72	Thank you. One of the office's powers is to check the property statements. In your statistics, you said that in 2015 I think eight declarations of property of parliamentarians were checked. My question is: what was the criterion that these 8 were chosen rather than others? And what mistakes were there in these statements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, before the Central Anti-Corruption Office takes part in the inspection, it shall carry out pre-control analyses. And in general, the subject of pre-control analyses is mostly... actually all statements made by parliamentarians. And when such a pre-control analysis, which is preliminary and informal, reveals information or findings that may indicate an irregularity, then a control of the statement of property is initiated. But just remember one thing: it's not a suspicion of a crime, it could be an irregularity. Moreover, because control is a preventive instrument and it does not need to be justified at all, it is carried out in a routine, annual manner. Let me put it graphically: the office should exercise control of a selected group of parliamentarians, which does not necessarily imply suspicion. However, everything is preceded by a certain analysis, and as for the results, it seems that... I can put it in writing because I don't want to make a mistake, but I don't think there have been any reports of suspected crimes committed as a result of these checks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u75	Thank you very much. Some time ago, the entire country was informed that CBA employees received salary increases from PLN 1 000 to PLN 3 000 with an equalisation from January and that 100 new jobs were created, so that at the moment 900 people work at CBA. This, of course, caused an outrage to police officers, as well as various other environments. Well, I'm not talking about nurses who sleep at the Prime Minister's Office. [[They were asleep. They were asleep.]] I'd like to ask you about one particular case, which also concerns this. On 12 September, as the media reported, a position of advisor to the head of the CBA was created. This is a completely new position. On the other hand, a consultative council consisting of professors was closed. This advice worked for free, but the person in this new position as CBA's chief advisor is to receive a salary higher than the minister. Along with the extras, it's gonna be about 20,000. I'd like you to tell me what this person is going to do and if this is real information. And if we're already with the money, then I think that... I understand that now the CBA has a lot of money, but these preventive checks in local governments, these simultaneous checks of all local governments, are very expensive. I would like to know what they were and what the costs of all these self-controls will be. Maybe I don't know myself, but in my opinion it would be good to make such a check first in two or three places. If it turns out that these irregularities are repeated, then we will check more. Maybe it'll save you some money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u76	I'll answer that. As far as salary increases are concerned, I would like to say that there have been no increases since the beginning of the office's operation. This is the first increase since the beginning of the existence of the CBA and this is not the sum of 2,3 thousand. This is a misunderstanding. The multiplier the police are talking about is to be increased at the Central Anti-corruption Office. There is a demand to increase this multiplier, but this is actually a variable based on which the budget for the next year is calculated. In the police this multiplier is a direct component of the salary, because salaries are calculated according to this multiplier. This is the product: the multiplier times the group. In the case of the Central Office for Corruption, there is a special table which is annexed to the Regulation, and that is the table where wages are allocated. This has nothing to do with the multiplier. An increase in this multiplier was requested only to avoid creating a certain fiction. Because usually you take an average multiplier, which is supposed to include all salaries paid throughout the year plus 13 plus allowances, and that's about enough... The point is that the Ministry of Finance is preparing the budget for the following year on this basis. We wanted to give up this criterion. We said that the CBA's salary is determined according to the table which is an annex to the regulation, and the application of the multiplier criterion always causes the situation to be such that there are vacancies. We can't fill these jobs because we wouldn't have enough for our salary. And this is a fiction practiced over the years. We called for this multiplier to be realized so that it reflects the actual number of jobs so that there is no so-called. Empty jobs. If there's 900 of them, we'll actually be able to accept 900 people, not 700. Otherwise, we'd have to leave 200 empty jobs to regulate the budget, because we can't transfer the wage money from other budget points. On the other hand, this increase is due to a change in the table. This is the first raise, and it's not at all about 2,3 thousand. I don't want to be specific right now, but we could just look at this table. If we compare it, we'll see that it's a few hundred zlotys. Of course, a CBA officer's salary includes a bonus. However, I would like to stress one thing: compared to other services... The fact is that this bonus in the form of bonuses in the Central Anti-corruption Office is only one, plus a special supplement that is given in exceptional cases. In other services a special supplement is a standard, the bonus is also a standard, plus other supplements. If we combine all these allowances, then we can compare the salary of a CBA officer and a police officer or another service. And I assure you, there are no differences here that have been declared that an officer in the Central Anti-corruption Office is making a lot more money than a police officer. That's not true. As for the job creation case, as you asked, the chief's advisor's position, there's no secret here. Indeed, there is a proposal, or in fact the decision of the chief has already been created this position as advisor to the chief and the salary of such advisor is PLN 6,11 thousand gross. And it's an employee, which I would stress. So I don't know where that 20,000 zloty came from. Of course, he may have a higher salary if he worked for 30 years, he'll have an allowance for service. Theoretically, you can find one. He'll have a bonus and, if he worked 30 years, a service allowance, but then it won't be 20,000 zlotys either. This advisor's salary does not differ in any way from that of the same posts in other departments. And I can only say that at the moment there is one such person whose remuneration is within the lower limits of this amount of PLN 6 I can't say exactly right now, but it's probably 6,000 zlotys, well, I don't want to make a mistake here. As for the consultative board, yes, there was a body, and it was really gathering... I don't know if there were two or three meetings. I just didn't want there to be anything that was fiction that didn't have real added value. And that's why I've decided to eliminate the consultative board. As far as control in local governments is concerned, I believe that the cost of these controls is much lower than the possible added value that will be achieved as a result of these controls. First of all, it's about a broad-prevention dimension that's beyond overestimated. We are dealing with very large EU spending processes. These are hundreds of millions, if not billions of zlotys that have been distributed. Here we are talking about controls that are made in marshal offices. In my opinion, there have been no such checks in previous years, in any case there have been no checks on this subject, namely the allocation of these measures. I may be wrong here, of course, but our diagnosis shows that the controls, if they were, were very episodeal and circumstantial. Thus, the costs of this inspection are absolutely not any of the costs that the office is to bear in addition. It operates as part of its tasks, has its budget and it can be said that the costs of carrying out these checks are small costs, because this is the real involvement of several people If we're already in control of Marshal's Offices In every office. So here I don't see any special costs that would go beyond the norm, that's the realization of the office's normal tasks. And as I said, the issue of results and the question of what good we can expect from these checks... I think they're absolutely worth taking. I've told you about the general effect. This is the first case, but it's not just that. There are already realistic findings from these checks, which point to irregularities, but not only irregularities, because also the fact of committing crimes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u78	Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but if you don't mind, I'll ask you again, because I wouldn't want to ask you again later. But I'd like to ask... Can you give a specific answer to the question of what the cost of these checks will be in the budget of this year in all voivodship offices? Perhaps you'd be kind enough to say... [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal Offices.]] Yes, at the Marshal's Offices, thank you very much. Perhaps you'd be more than willing to give us the average gross wage in the CBA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u79	We don't run cost statistics at all. These are the costs of the CBA budget. I don't really understand why we should actually separate it, as well as how much the investigation costs. Well, this is something that is done within the available CBA budget resources, it doesn't generate any additional costs. I don't know if this is about how much you're gonna pay for gas. Or a copy machine... [[Excuse me, I'd like to remind you that the head of the CBA is reporting for 2015, so...]] [[Basia, next year you'll ask.]] But it was the same in... There was no such thing as making buchalteria in any year... [[I mean, the senator was asking about 2016, about what happened this year.]] Okay, I get it. But I'll go back to answering the question. In 2015, and in no year at all, there was no such office... Anyway, I don't think that any of the service has that kind of statistics. Right? The budgetary discipline is to ensure that the budget is properly distributed and that expenditure in the various headings of the budget is not exceeded. So that these costs absolutely do not go beyond the allocated budget. As far as the average salary is concerned, I can put it in writing, because right now I don't remember how much gross it's going to be. 6,000 zlotys? I don't remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u81	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have three questions. The first will be related to the efficiency that the Minister spoke of. The budget of that year, in 2015, was... well, less than PLN 120 million. [[Head of Ernest Bejda Central Corruption Bureau: PLN 114 million, less than PLN 114.5 million.]] Well, 114 million. In turn the damage revealed resulting from the actions which the CBA countered is PLN 139 million, which is practically very different. Do you believe that this indicates that there was really a small sum going on last year? That's what I'd call it. The yield is small. In addition to preventive recovery, of course, which is kind of immeasurable... These are specific issues related to what could possibly be saved or recovered. Second question, connected with the CBA's legislative interface. Well, some things, as you explained to us here, connected, of course, with legislation, with a specific state of law, have affected possible measurable, large, losses, e.g. when it comes to the VAT carousel. I understand that there are some things that can be brought back. Are you going to come back... It is specifically about those who have adopted such provisions rather than others. And how much was lost when it comes to VAT? 'Cause we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, we're like, you know, we're like, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, you know, we're like, we're like, you know, we're like, we're like, The question is, why hasn't it been done before? Was it intentional, or was it just some kind of special agility of those responsible for the laws, including the two Chambers? After all, they are also responsible for what they do. And one last thing, that's question three. At one of the points where corrective action is concerned, point 10, you say that a new law on CBA should be adopted, as well as new provisions on property claims. Who should initiate this? Have these regulations been made in any way... I mean, has the process of adopting new rules on CBA, the new law and property statements been initiated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u82	I'll start with the costs. 139 million is the amount of irregularities revealed, right? What I'm trying to say is that this is actually just one of the exponents of effectiveness. This is about exposing irregularities of 139 million as a result of the audit, which is not the real amount that has contributed to the budget. Some things are immeasurable, so it is difficult to say exactly what savings can cause CBA action, e.g. in the area of sealing the VAT regulations you mentioned. All I can say is that the current sealing of these rules has resulted in a certain percentage increase in revenue to the budget. It's a real number, we can talk about it. Is that the result? CBA activities? I'm sure it's not just CBA activities. Or, for example, to control a given phenomenon will result in a decrease in pathology occurring around this phenomenon? An example can be the acquisition of EU grants. We are dealing with the disclosure of some sphere of pathology, because property benefits were assumed, e.g. in the case of the National Centre for Research and Development. It's hard to say what the profits will be for this reason, because it can't be counted directly. So the amount of 139 million is an expression. only one of the activities of the Central Bureau of Corruption, which revealed damage of 139 million as a result of the checks carried out. And it's not like that. in the case of the tax office or the tax office, that such amount has been withheld, it has been secured. So there's a problem with a real measure of the effectiveness of the CBA. I've been trying to show this for examples of some investigations, preparatory proceedings, and analysis of some phenomena. Because what could be the losses of the State Treasury in connection with bad privatisation, illegal or unintended, which is involved in the violation of the law? It could be billions of take-offs. So it can be said that stopping such a process is a savings for the state. Otherwise, I don't know, buying something might be beneficial, right? This is already a matter of concrete calculations. As I said, this is not exactly a measurable sphere, and this amount of 139 million is actually just one of the exponents, it brings closer knowledge of the effectiveness of the office. Although looking at the quality of the cases, I can say that it leaves a lot to be desired. I am talking about the quality, the involvement of the office in key economic processes, including legislative processes, the lack of its activity on key legislative processes, and the introduction of certain legislative solutions has led to the loss of the State Treasury. Excuse me, you were asking about... [[The VAT carousel and legislation, whether you can go back to these legislative processes, starting with the initiator and ending with the President who signed the bill.]] These things are the subject of the Ministry of Finance's findings, because the initiative on VAT solutions comes from there, but it can also be said that these cases in the context of fraud remain in the area of the interest of the office. Just remember that post factum is often so that some legislative processes, some changes made in subcommittees or... The legislative process is long, he has his formalisms, right? Depending on whether the law is an initiative, a government proposal... sometimes we deal with the level of regulation, then it does not go to parliament at all. This is the subject of analysis, but it is not simple post factum cases, it is not easy to determine who really was the initiator, because in documents everything is in principle correct. But, of course, I can say that right now this is also an area of interest to the office, and I am talking about decision-making in the legislative process. [[There's a CBA law and property statements.]] As far as the issue of property claims is concerned, Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland we have at least a dozen models of these statements at the moment. And that's the first flaw. Moreover, the very form of these designs raises interpretational doubts. We would like to harmonise this and we have already taken up work in this area. We would like this to be such a real dimension of the anti-corruption strategy. The aim is to harmonise and amend the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by public functions, a long name. This bill stands for these people's responsibilities. A model statement, which is interesting... It's the president's initiative, it's the president's order. As I say, we would like to propose a change, which is to harmonise it so that there is one pattern. I'm going to give you an example as a curiosity. The judges making out a declaration of property shall not be liable for criminal liability related to the possible... Well, it's kind of a systemic incoherence. We'd like that to change. During a visit to Ukraine, which, you can say, is facing very serious problems in this area. Corruption is systemic there... They have a uniform pattern. Not much of this, in a digitised form, so that the relevant services have access to it, can process and analyse these statements. And not only do we not have this uniform pattern, it does not have a digitized form yet, so no one can process and analyze it. In Romania, too, they have uniformity in this matter. We could draw on the experience of other countries. As it turns out, they managed to introduce something that is qualitatively better than ours. Let's go that way. I'd like to say that work has already been done at the Central Bureau of Corruption. We will continue with them under the aegis of the Minister of Coordinator. As far as the amendment of the Central Anti-corruption Office Act is concerned, I think it's time for some changes to be made. We have a lot of comments... I think it will soon be possible to present our proposals to both Chambers of Parliament. I'm not saying it's gonna be proposed directly by the boss, but by the government. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u83	Thank you very much. And I'll ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski for a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. During the presentation of the Office's activity report, you mentioned You weren't the only one because Minister Mariusz Kaminski also mentioned this. . about the lack of coordination between the different services. I would like you to answer my question as to whether the degree of coordination has improved or not. What steps have been taken to coordinate these activities of the special forces? That's the first question. The second question concerns a specific case, an investigation conducted by the Central Bureau of Corruption. I'm talking about irregularities in the Upper Silesian Water Supply Company. The investigation seems to have been underway since 2014. In 2015, as I recall, prosecutorial charges were filed against 4 people and this year It's up to 7 more. Looks like a total of 13 people... If you had said a few words about this investigation, of course, as much as you can... What irregularities were identified by the CBA? More importantly, the Upper Silesian Water Supply Company and its daughter, the GPW Distribution, are still covered by the operations of the Central Anti-corruption Office? Is this a developmental issue, or is the case closed, because the office has exhausted, so to speak, the scope of investigative action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u85	Thank you very much. I suggest you ask Senator Jan Hamerski another question, and then we ask the Minister for an answer. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I would ask you to answer the question if you could give it to me, if there was a question of privatisation of Polish Railways based in Zakopane within the CBA's interest. This issue has aroused a lot of emotions in the community there. If you can answer me, then... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u87	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u88	Thank you very much. As far as the investigation into the Upper Silesian Water Supply Company is concerned, I can say that this is indeed a long-term investigation, which is also subject to an in-depth analysis. As for its length, it's just a reminder that in this case, the D.A. is the host. Indeed, this CBA investigation was entrusted. I can tell you this: it can't last forever, decisions should be made And soon they will be undertaken to put an end to it, all the more so as it concerns the past. That's all I can say officially. Individual investigations and their length were subject to concern and analysis. I remember this investigation as... [[So it's not developmental.]] ...long-term. I don't want to talk about it. It concerns matters from the past, and that is where I would like to conclude. It should go to the end, because it cannot be that the preparatory procedure is just going on for years. I understand, of course, that economic procedures are of a nature, dynamics, etc., that they are usually long-term, but cannot continue. Colloquially speaking - Forever. - Mm-hmm. As far as coordination is concerned, I'd like to say As I mentioned at the beginning That now this coordination is, there is. Why? For a few reasons. Firstly, the act was amended, a regulation was introduced concerning the coordinator's minister, giving him the appropriate powers. Secondly, there is a minister-coordinator himself and there are heads of service who act coherently and collectively, actually exchanging information; this is also extremely important. The coordinator, who has powers and is strongly politically attached to what he is doing, has a real impact on what is happening in the service, and knows what is happening in them. It can sort things out, improve things, speed things up, and it can see certain phenomena at the right time to react properly. I'm not just talking about the reaction. I've already mentioned that. Legal, but also legislative, personal and control responses. So there's coordination in this area. However, I believe that there will still be work to make this coordination function of the Minister of Coordinator real, so that the flow of information from the services to the coordinator is faster and to give him instruments that will actually allow him to perform this function. It is about certain registers that the Minister of Coordinator should have, let's call them activity registers. And that is now the subject of thought and concern. But compared to the previous state of affairs, the difference is diametric because... why am I talking about this? Because someone might accuse me of not seeing it. I saw it because we had the opportunity to work with both the rule of law and justice in 2006 and the subsequent rule of the Civic Platform. In this case, there was a change of philosophy. As far as the flow of information and coordination is concerned, I can say that they left a great deal to be desired. As we look at the nearest past, in 2015, we can also see that. You can see how the meetings were held and what kind of information was provided during these meetings. So I think there's a really big change in quality when it comes to coordinating service work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u89	Excuse me, Minister, may I ask you not to speak again? I'm talking about the flow of levels of information between services. Is he, in any way, formalized? It's about exchanging information, for example. between CBA and ABW. Is there a horizontal path, or is it just through the minister's person?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u90	Not just by the minister of the coordinator. There's a real exchange of information between the chiefs of staff. As much as is necessary and justified. This is very important too. I don't think it was. That's not enough. All I can tell you is that there was extreme distrust between the chiefs of staff for the last crew. For example, one of the most significant examples: when the Central Anti-corruption Office came into possession of parts, let's call it, tapes from the locale of the Sowa and Friends, and was supposed to pass them on to the Homeland Security Agency, saying that it remained in its jurisdiction, because it was about disclosure of the secret, the head of the CBA was deemed to be a provocator of the management of the Homeland Security Agency. Right? This shows extreme distrust and lack of understanding of the role of individual services and their tasks. Then, as you remember, it went to the D.A.'s office, which immediately declassified it, because the number itself, let's call it, was classified... The D.A. announced it at a press conference. And that also shows how... Because not only do the services need to coordinate this among themselves, but there must also be real coordination with the prosecution. However, we have dealt with such a phenomenon that something has been introduced that is such a regulation that was to go towards the protection of civil rights. Namely introduced so-called. the subsequent agreement on the legal possibility of using the material obtained as a result of the wiretap. The point was that if, as a result of the wiretap used, the service received information about the crime of a person other than the person being wired, or about a crime other than the one in the wiretap application, then it could not be used in a procedural manner. It could only be used if, in due course, the service reported such a fact to the prosecution. And then she was going to pass it on to the court so that he would accept it legally, approve, expressing the so-called. The next one's approval. It turned out that in the Attorney General's Office, because it was via the Attorney General, half of the squad was dealing only with issues, whether a given, let's call it, the detected case is suitable for subsequent consent, whether it is suitable, whether it is reported in time, etc. You understand what a senseless waste of strength and resources is. That's not what the D.A.'s office's supposed to do. After all, we have the principle of legalism, the principle of free assessment of evidence and, finally, the principle of material truth. So, if there's proof of that, obtained inextricably as a result of operational control... This operational control is not illegal because the application for its application must always obtain the consent of the Attorney General and then the court. It must be justified, shown the materials, given the legal basis for the request, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, etc. Right? So we have very far-reaching guarantees here. Later, when this wiretap is used, e.g. We have a corruption crime, and as a result of this wiretap, we find out that there's been a murder or kidnapping, we were the ones who couldn't use it in the regulations introduced by the previous crew. Only after a follow-up agreement. And the next service had to apply for approval within two months of the completion of the inspection procedure. If she didn't do it, that material couldn't be used anymore. Now I'm going to give you a little extreme case, but he's pretty graphic. Because criminals sometimes use slang. Imagine the situation. . similar has been the case. That the service, as a result of the application of the control, will only acquire material after more than 2 months, that this slang of criminals applies e.g. Kidnapping and corruption control. Evidence indicating who kidnapped him. And the servants couldn't get... She didn't understand the dialogue at the time. It turns out that after two months... And this is the only evidence to indicate, for example. The kidnappers. After these 2 months, this cannot be used at all. Now, for example. explain to the mother of such a kidnapped child that we cannot use it. Of course, this government crew has changed. It's an absurd recipe, in my opinion, because it's always such proof... It's about the same way that someone gets into a search, has a certain basis, the DA's approval, looks for certain things, and finds other evidence in the search and detection process. It's totally influential here. If there's any other evidence, the service can use it and hand it over to the D.A.'s office. If this one considers that this evidence is unnecessary And at the end of the day, the court finds it either useless or useless, that's just what it says. You don't need an a prioritized censor to eliminate it, it's not protecting any civil rights at all. And this is one of those issues that has already been changed, and there are other issues that need to be changed. In this respect, the amendment of the Act on the Central Anti-corruption Office, and not just this, is really needed. I'm sorry for the digression, but this is an important issue, showing a system approach to certain services. It's not about oppression against citizens, but it's about that. And we're not absoluteizing the evidence from the wiretap. So that this evidence can be used in the process in a real way. And then there was the question... I'm sorry, because maybe I... You were asking about... [[Polish Railways in Zakopane.]] Polish Line Railways. I can tell you that I'm gonna check and give you an answer in writing if it was... If that's possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u91	Oh, so the Minister will check. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Jan Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u92	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Mr. Chief, I am pleased and I identify with your report on the desire to reduce corruption, I repeat: corruption, not crime. But how would you respond to my accusation that your statements, at least at this stage, are too categorical and even not completed, which means they're under the public? Namely, you stated half an hour ago that you have clear indications or even evidence that legislation or, more broadly, legislation was being made gaps so that there could be such tax losses, and that these lapses are true... I'd like to find out where you reported this suspicion of a crime and what the case is. Second thing. What, you know, I'm wondering, because I work with the service in the Seym, in the Parliament... I think you're building a supercontroller empire for nothing. Well, you were talking about VAT with a lot of knowledge, Minister, but forgive me, I know a little bit of the structure of these services, their potential, their capabilities, and I don't think you can compete with tax authorities, with tax offices that have a common structure of highly computerized, huge number of employees, geographical universality. The third question is about to be asked. What you don't have, and you won't have, and you're right, because that's what these services are for. Finally, that's the third question. We have been working together to expand the geographical coverage and therefore the efficiency of these services. You got it now, for example. The task, maybe the right one, to investigate corruption in marshal offices. But in Bydgoszcz, half a delegation was created with very small steps, because this is not a delegation, so your employees probably waste more time on commuting from Gdansk than if they had established their headquarters. And my question is, will you spend some of the money on the extension of your seats, just as Mr. Wojtunik suggested, so that the CBA is common and not on trains? And finally, another question. Don't you think, Minister, that you can't handle these responsibilities? Because they're throwing you, using, I believe, this rumour, this ambition, and this is for the marshals' offices, and this, sir, is for the Treasury companies. This is due to the precedent of Misiewicz, but it would be necessary to carry out a check with Mr Macierewicz, not in companies... [[The question is, Senator, the question is, the minute has passed.]] ...and this, sir, for health care. And yet there are areas that I... I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal, so that the second time later... [[So you don't make a mess.]] I mean, there's a tender on the highways. There will be the greatest momentum for corruption, because these are state orders, European orders. Why don't you say something about whether or not there's a shield? [[Thank you...]] Thank you. And I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, for prolonging a little.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u93	Thank you, Senator. And I'm asking Senator Krzysztof Elephant for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u94	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, two questions. The first is about the local difficulties you mentioned. Is there any chance that a central location from a real event will appear here in Warsaw? Would it possibly be possible to decentralize this facility, i.e. to take advantage of a proposal from one of the local governments, one of the voivodship cities? And the question of delegations. Do any delegations require immediate intervention, immediate improvement of the working conditions of officers? And is there any action being taken in this regard? The second question concerns cooperation with your counterparts from abroad. Do you conduct any activities in Poland that I will tell you about in colloquially? You have been asked by officials from other countries, and are parallel actions in relation to the objects of your interest being carried out in other countries? Is there such cooperation? Because we all realize that right now, the biggest corruption transfers are going beyond the borders of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u95	Thank you, and I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u96	Thank you very much. This is a big deal. As far as the legal gaps and suspicion of committing a crime are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, Senator, I was just talking about the fact that some legislative solutions were conducive to VAT fraud. It's not a question of whether it was intentional or not. That's a fact, and I'm talking about success. The result was that this regulation... And that's the fact I've seen. I can confirm that, and I'm not the only one, because the officials of the Ministry of Finance can, too. That's why there was this change. Right? This is a matter of how a legal standard works and what it causes. The introduction of this rule... Now we can ask why it happened, who introduced it, etc. The justifications, of course, Mr Senator, were: the economic process had to be improved, business had to be facilitated, businesses had to be given a green light, etc., etc. That's the kind of justification. Why, for example? Regulation on the quarterly settlement of value added tax is introduced? You could say that the idea is noble... [[Right.]] ...because they wanted to relieve entrepreneurs so that they would make declarations every three months, not every month, and they didn't have to live it, let's call it, mitrage associated with the whole buchalteria more than once every three months. Entrepreneur can choose... Except the medal has two sides. [[Exactly.]] And now please note that for these three months we have treated a potential criminal as a legitimate and honest entrepreneur. He makes these VAT returns and writes in these declarations... This is another gap, because these declarations have not been precise for a long time, and in fact their content is not fully verifiable. Actually, he can put whatever he wants in there. He's been trading for three months... [[We're borrowing him.]] ...and only after 3 months does he submit such information to the office. And then it turns out who's in that chain. 'Cause he's one of the links. He didn't pay off the tax due. And now... [[But the UKS can react sooner.]] No, he can't react sooner. This may, of course, be seen, but the trader is not obliged to pay the tax at that time, because the tax obligation only arises after the third month. And now the question is, what happens if he doesn't pay off after three months of this tax? Now, please pay attention to the scale. If we're dealing with hundreds of millions And sometimes even billions can happen, because there were also such cases. It is in this trade that a tax obligation of hundreds of millions arises. And the situation is that this tax doesn't affect. I don't mean to say that someone committed a crime in the last three months, but this is a phenomenon that is a consequence of a certain normative act. And such phenomena are something out there. This three-month interval is not the biggest problem. There are other points that I have pointed out. All I was talking about was that on the basis of this... and it was obvious right away. The question is, why wasn't this prevented? Well, that's an open question. And I'm not talking about criminal liability here and the notice of suspicion of a crime, these are two completely different... Although some things can be checked, I mean: what were the reasons for such regulations? Because the result is that we have billions of gaps in VAT revenues, and this is not about individual billions, but about tens of billions. And this is... That's why I put it that way. But I'm not talking about anybody's criminal liability here yet, about someone taking money to make a regulation. As far as the UKS competition is concerned, of course we do not have the forces or means to compete with the UKS and the US, so we do not carry out fiscal controls, such strict fiscal controls as these financial authorities do. However, our controls are targeted at certain precisely defined issues, as now the entry of five companies I'm sorry to bring this up. It relates only to the specified narrow volume of contracts. And here I can, by sticking to the 2015 report, say this: this activity of the CBA in the Treasury companies was not at all. I don't think it's right that the CBA didn't have any activity in this area, because it had to be some kind of... This is not just about checks, but you need to have some activity in this area and knowledge from companies of the Treasury. This is a very important, important matter. And I think there's been a lot of neglect in this area. Regarding the delegation in Bydgoszcz Sorry, now this is still the overseas department, and I would like a delegation to be established in Bydgoszcz, and we will move on to that. I think we're gonna be able to do this, and we're gonna strengthen... I can assure you now that there is no such thing as people going there, but we have a small headquarters there, and they're already there. This is a small composition so far, but it will be expanded. Like I said... You asked me about the issues of ability, whether the office would be able to handle the duties of control at all. We know that there is a lot of this, that there are a lot of tasks in front of the office, but I assure you that we are trying to have the forces and resources we have in a prudent and prudent manner, so that we can have the resources and resources. But the office is supposed to be staffed up by 100 people this year and maybe next year, because we'd like it to be strengthened a little bit further. This will have the effect that we will be able to carry out the tasks more efficiently and effectively. As far as the premises are concerned, 'Cause you asked me that. In terms of headquarters, this is a problem from the very beginning. At the very beginning of the office, the seat at Ujazdowskiego 9 Avenue was sufficient, that was when the office started from scratch in 2006, but this real area there, at Ujazdowskiego Avenue, was less than 2 thousand m2. With the second place, on Poleczki, it is similar In fact, this area is far from sufficient. And unfortunately, this problem hasn't been solved in the last six years, because when we left the office, it was a problem. We had a second seat, temporary, on Royal Street, she had a much larger area, but the office from that headquarters was... I don't know, I think the Ministry of Digitalization was supposed to move in there. In any case, it was decided that the office should be evacuated from there. And that area was bigger. And then, in fact, the management of the office was forced into commercial rentals in 2010. One of the buildings occupied is therefore rented commercially, on the market, and the other is in permanent management, the one at Ujazdowskiego Avenue 9. So this case is one of the most serious problems. And given the fact that the office is going to develop in staff, it seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the issue of the new building is a need for an extremely urgent and still unsolved problem. As far as housing in individual cities is concerned, as I said, there is now no urgent need to seek out premises in a violent way to change the seat of a specific delegation. But there are delegations, let's just say where it's better in terms of location, and there are places where it's worse. But also in some of them, e.g. in Krakow, we have a construction process and soon the office will move there to a new headquarters and she will be on a permanent board. The same is true in Wroclaw. Of course, we build it as much as we can. The budget is bigger right now, so some things go faster. [[There are still issues of cooperation with foreign countries...]] Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry. Of course, issues of cooperation with foreign countries. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the office is working with foreign counterparts. I would like to say that in 2015 I left this out before the agreement was signed with the STT, i.e. with the Lithuanian anti-corruption service. An agreement was also signed with Moldova, with the counterpart of the Central Anti-corruption Office in Moldova. Cooperation with the Latvian service was also established, i.e. cooperation with the Latvian and Estonian services continued. So here are the three servants... And above all, cooperation with NABU, the National Anti-Corruption Office of Ukraine, was established in 2015 and, as a result, we have led to the signing of the agreement this year. There have been visits... But I'm talking about this year. Last year, there was a big conference at the end of the year, as I became head of the Central Anti-corruption Office. This conference was also attended by many representatives of anti-corruption services, which was the beginning of December 2015. How does this translate into real action? What I'm saying is that there's an exchange of information and experience. This is the first case. Today there was a meeting with a similar service from Iraq, which also wants to establish relations with the Central Anti-corruption Office. So it's gradually and gradually built. Of course, there are also relations with the services of Western countries, our counterparts. And by the right people in the international department, we have the opportunity to verify certain information and exchange it. Of course, it must be said that the CBA is connected to the Schengen system, i.e. from this source it can also draw information and transmit it there. But as I say, we particularly care about Ukraine in bilateral exchange. There is a new service that arose and in a very short time, you can say, started its activity in a real way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. Senator Adam Gawada would like to ask you further questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a brief question because at the beginning of this year I conducted an audit in the Coal Company, currently Polish Mining Group. The audit ended with a report and conclusions that I submitted to the Supreme Audit Chamber and the prosecution. However, due to the very large area covered by this audit, a number of serious irregularities were found in 2009 and 2014, mainly related to external service orders, with the so-called. support services, with mining robots, with excavation, with the commissioning of large investments, with areas so-called. support and sale of coal. I therefore have this question, Minister: does the Central Anti-corruption Office, due to a very wide range of possible irregularities and even corruption cases, intend to take action or take measures that would result in this company and other coal companies being subject to wider control? Thank you... Of course, Minister, if some information cannot be made public, I would ask for written information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u99	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: No, I don't think so.]] I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. That's an answer to Senator Gadawa's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u100	Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, this is, of course, another very large area that I can tell you about, which is the area of mining. He is the concern of the Ministry, which oversees the entire mining sphere, including PGG and all these large coal companies. Those irregularities you've been talking about, they're no stranger to us. There are a whole range of different actions that are being taken against these companies, and it comes down to the fact that companies are drained from money. I can say, in general, that yes, this is an area of interest to the office. So it's not just about what happened, but it's also what we'd like to show on a systematic basis some abnormal phenomena and what could be changed in order to eliminate these phenomena. So it's not just a matter of some strong criminal response, but also of some sort of response to ordering procedures. So that we work with the Ministry in this area, and we are also active, because mining is such a big area, you can say... We're active. That's all I can tell you, sir. Part of this activity is cooperation with the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. There aren't any more people willing to ask questions. [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I inform you that the head of the Central Anti-corruption Office has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Wiesław Kilian and Senator Jan Hamerski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much, Minister, for providing the Senate with information about the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2015. I state that the Senate took note of the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Head of Ernest's Central Corruption Bureau: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mrs. Marshal, just a moment. Let's see if there's a CEO of UKE up to the next point...]] Two minutes off, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 36 to 16 minutes 39]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The President of the Office for Electronic Communications shall appoint the Sejm with the consent of the Senate at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Sejm called for this position of Mr Marcin Ciche, and the resolution of the Sejm on this matter is included in print no.277. I would like to welcome to the Senate meeting the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, Mr Marcin Ciche, appointed by the Sejm. Welcome very much. [[Called by the Sejm President of the Office of Electronic Communications Marcin Cichy: Good morning.]] I would also like to welcome Mrs Anna Streżyńska, Minister of Digitization. Hello, Minister, very cordially. [[Good morning.]] I would like to remind you that the Senate may, before adopting a resolution on this matter, call on the candidate for this position to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Do any of you senators want to ask Mr. Marcin Silence or ask him to explain? I don't see any calls. Would Mr. Marcin Silent like to speak? [[Established by the Sejm President of the Office of Electronic Communications Marcin Cichy: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present my candidacy as President of the Office for Electronic Communications. I've been involved in the telecommunications sector for nearly 11 years. I spent the first 8 years of my career working at the Electronic Communications Office, where I was initially responsible for telecommunications market analysts, then for regulations, and at the end I worked as director of the Strategy and Analysis Department. During this period I answered, among others. for the implementation of solutions protecting the interests of users, as well as for the strategies of the next UKE presidents present here today, Minister Anna Streżyńska, as well as the outgoing UKE President Magdalena Gaj. I was also responsible for implementing the regulation of international roaming, a Eurotariff reducing the cost of using services outside Poland, as well as the implementation of many analytical projects related to prices and consumer preferences research. I spent the next 3 years of my professional activity in the business sector, where I gained most of my experience in the field of broadband investment. In March of this year, I returned to the public administration and took the position of Director of the Bureau of Analysis at the Ministry of Digitalization, where I deal with so-called projects. e-identity as well as implementation of the plan for responsible development prepared by Prime Minister Morawiecki's team in the area of digitalisation. I support the Minister of Digitization in the Innovation Council and in the area of Start In Poland programmes. I am also responsible for cooperation with small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. In my activities, I will be guided by the government's priorities in the area of telecommunications, which include primarily consumer protection and the development of infrastructure and broadband services. As president of UKE, I would like to base my activities on four basic pillars. The first is to protect consumers by monitoring quality, simplifying formalities for users of services, as well as safety and protection of the youngest, as well as supporting the digitalisation of public services. Stimulating infrastructure investment is the second pillar. Above all, the use of EU funds should be maximised and commercial solutions should be sought to support private investment. It also improves cooperation between entrepreneurs, e.g. symmetrical conditions for access to infrastructure. The third pillar is the optimal choice of regulatory tools to improve market competitiveness. And here we are talking about the deregulation of the end-of-markets as well as the analysis of the new products and services that are emerging, the elimination of entry barriers, self-regulation and the development of new postal services. The implementation of the new tasks for which the regulator should be prepared for the next five-year term is the last pillar. This is the UKE 3.0 project, which will also consist of a change and, in a sense, the development of the regulatory authority's competences. The UKE President's mission will be to provide Poles with access to modern telecommunications and postal services in a competitive and growing market and in a dynamic international environment. I understand the vision of the regulator as acting as an objective, substantive and credible moderator for the development of the telecommunications and postal services market, with understanding both the social needs and the functioning of the business sector. I would like to ask the High House for credit and a positive assessment of my candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u103	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask a question now? Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Stay on the stand.]] I just have a quick question. You said you'd try to be a moderator. And is there any way to be guided? I hope so. Did you support regional governments in any way that have been unable to cope with broadband for years? Is there even such a formula of support by the office?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u105	At the moment, there is no such formula, because the funds under the Operational Programme are intended primarily for the business sector. However, after the previous perspective there was really a very extensive know-how in the area in which... Voivodship, local governments at actually every level. The county-owned, municipal-owned investment of this kind was carried out. This is a certain know-how that can be used in the future. It should be borne in mind that after 2020 the perspective of the Operational Programme will be closed and further investments can already be implemented in the public-private partnership, so that we will then return to local government activity in a really wide range. And to that end, we will also have a whole range of an analytical background, so to speak. But also know-how from which you will be able to draw. This will be not only information about broadband infrastructure, but also various regulatory and information tools for local authorities, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises that operate in regions... I'm talking about companies that operate in microscales. You can say that they do not have a large turnover, they connect several, several thousand customers. There will be solutions for them, i.e. we will want to develop later. And in this case, local governments will have an excellent role to play.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u106	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. [[Established by the Sejm President of the Office of Electronic Communications Marcin Cichy: Thank you very much.]] I would like to thank the President of the Office of Electronic Communications appointed by the Sejm, Mr Marcin Cichem, for answering the senator's question and for speaking. Or do you still wish to speak? [[Mind if I take a seat?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u107	High Izbo! Dear Marshal! [[I can't hear you. Come on in.]] [[Minister, I can't hear you. Maybe we need to...]] Oh, now it's gonna hear. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to say on behalf of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beaty Szydło The fact that we are submitting this candidacy is mainly based on the hope that the interests of consumers in the telecommunications market neglected over four years, in particular the interests of consumers of new services, new value added services, multimedia services, will be entrusted to the President of UKE and this matter will become the main concern of the new President of UKE in the next five years. The aim is to secure all issues relating to the development of multimedia services and telecommunications services, including broadband services, not only as regards the universality of services, but above all as regards quality and correct settlement of services provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a recess, but first I'm going to ask Senator Secretary to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u109	A meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to review some laws to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases will be held today in room 182 immediately after the announcement of a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u110	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 5:50 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 49 to 17 minutes 51]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 9:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 51 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u111	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending certain laws to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases and consider it as point nine. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. The text of the Act is contained in print No 281 and the report of the Commission In print No 281 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Senate! The Commission has just concluded its deliberations and examined the Law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. This is a continuation of what began at the beginning of September at the extraordinary Senate meeting, namely the continuation of the fight against African swine fever. At that time, the Minister announced further proposals and solutions. This amendment is intended to help the Ministry, but also veterinary inspections, to prevent the spread of the disease. I think we will also be able to eradicate this disease in the territory of the Republic of Poland. That's why today's committee has examined this bill. It did not give rise to any more discussion. As far as I know, 400 Members voted in favour, 3 abstained, 3 opposed. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of this law, together with one amendment, also adopted by the committee which limits this amendment, reduces the penalties for hunting circles associated with wild boar's sanitary discharge. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no reports. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There's an Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Ewa Lech. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Shortly...]] Yes? [[No.]] [[No.]] [[Hold...]] You're welcome. [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] No? Good. At present, the senators... [[Oh, no, they won't listen.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Stanisławek, please. [[No questions.]] [[No questions.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] According to the rules... There are questions, so I have to give the floor. If any of your senators want to speak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u114	Yes, I have a question. It is such a continuation because I asked this question to the Minister at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering a very important bill. I said here that the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't understand that this is a war with ASF. And I can see a little bit that he doesn't understand that this is a war with ASF. And when I asked you a question about the research, the minister told me that blood was collected from every pig in the world. I'd like to ask the following question. That means for 1,000 pieces... If, suppose, we have this kind of breeding, 1,000 pieces, then how many pigs is the blood collected for the test? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[In writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u115	I'm asking the Minister for an answer. You can answer from the spot if that's quicker. [[In writing.]] [[We're talking about the spread of a very dangerous disease. The minister said that she wasn't getting married from all of them, and I gave you the name of the company that could do the belt tests for you, so that you would have the opportunity to examine every pig.]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u116	If I can answer this, I will say this: there is a diagnostic manual that has been approved by the World Health Organisation and the European Commission, so we have no room for manoeuvre when it comes to selecting the test method or the number of samples. The number of samples is calculated according to a special table. Every doctor who goes to the farm counts pigs, asks how many pigs there are, and according to the number of pigs on the farm on the basis of a table he knows how many blood samples he has to take. That's how it works. I'm not gonna tell you how many samples fall into 1,000 pieces because I'm not gonna litter my memory with this, I don't need that knowledge, I can check the table. These are matters strictly regulated by the diagnostic manual. Such a diagnostic manual shall be provided for each disease that has been eradicated from its own motion and there shall be no need to litter itself with memory. I assure you, senator... [[So in writing...]] ...that knowledge is available to any doctor who goes to take blood to the farm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u117	Minister, I understand that perfectly well, but I don't think you realize that we're not mastering the spread of the virus. I know perfectly well the textbooks; if the textbook is from last year, it may be obsolete, maybe you need to change the methods. That's what I'm talking about. I'm offering you a company that does strip tests, and you can examine all the pigs in the farm, and you're telling me you have different guidelines. Please change the guidelines. [[Exactly. It's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u118	Mr. Senator, we can't do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u119	Are there any more questions? [[There isn't.]] There are no calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: 8.]] [[10.]] [[15.]] [[Seven minutes.]] ...until 9:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 07 to 21 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons. The second reading of this project took place at the 23rd Senate meeting on 22 July 2016. The Senate, following the discussion, addressed the draft law to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject; it is published in print No 59 X. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present an additional report of the committee and the proposals supported by a minority of joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the 4 committees were leaning on the amendments that were tabled during the second reading. A total of 24, 16 were submitted and 8 amendments were accepted, but 3 were supported by minorities. I hope that during the vote, the marshal will calculate which amendments have been accepted, which have been rejected and which have the approval of minorities. Using the senator's rights, I would like to stress that this is how I think the vote will be in line with the committee's report. The Senate kept the promise given in the previous term to opposition environments, often to our colleagues, that their injury after years, with delay will be repaired. And this has become possible thanks to the good cooperation of both parliamentary clubs, for which, as Senator rapporteur, I thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? [[Voices from the room: No.]] No. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print 59 X and then in full adoption of the draft, in print 59 S, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments in print 59 X. Amendment 1 assumes that the opposition activist's legitimacy and badge should be granted ex officio, together with the decision to grant the opposition activist's status. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted in favour, 81 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 2 and 24 assume that the cash benefit to the opposition activist should be granted in the amount so far, unlimitedly and irrespective of the income of the entitled person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no one voted against or no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 5 deletes normative unnecessary word. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: Why now the fifth?]] Because Amendments 3 and 4 were excluded due to the adoption of Amendments 2 and 24. We are therefore voting on Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against or no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 6 and 19 are of a technical legislative nature, the rights relating to reduced journeys by means of collective transport shall be included in the Act on privileges for reduced journeys and not in the Act on opposition activists. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against or no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendments 7 and 20 re-introduce an adequate legislative approach to the draft, according to which periods of repression in the form of imprisonment or internment of opposition activists fall into a double dimension when determining the right to a pension. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one voted against or no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 8 is of a technical legislative nature In view of the applicable condition, a particularly justified case for the granting of a special pension deletes normative unnecessary terms in the provision indicating the authority applying for that benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, no one voted against or abstained. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9 assumes that an opposition activist, unless he has the right to a pension or other means of subsistence, shall be entitled to the lowest pension and his/her relatives, after the death of the activist, also to a funeral allowance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 28 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 assumes that an opposition activist, if he is not entitled to a pension and other necessary means of subsistence, may exceptionally be entitled to a pension of the lowest pension and his/her relatives, in the event of the death of the activist, shall be entitled to a funeral allowance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 28 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 11 assumes that after the death of an uninsured opposition activist without the right to a pension or a pension for his relatives, he is entitled to a funeral allowance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 28 senators voted in favour, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 12 introduces workers' rights in the form of exemption from the obligation to provide work for the duration of activities related to the status of opposition activist. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 27 senators voted in favour, 57 against, with no abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 13 is technical-editing, harmonising the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 leaves so far the position of the Regional Councils on opposition activists on the voivodship boards and assumes that members of the Councils are appointed only from among those marked by the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 27 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 15 assumes that members of the Voivodeship Councils on opposition activists are dismissed by the Voivode at the request of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 senators voted in favour, 26 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 16 is technical in nature. It provides an appropriate basis for the adoption of implementing rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 59 senators voted in favour, 25 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 17 and 21 aim to add to the law on combatants: firstly, extending the subjective scope of the Act on soldiers serving in Polish underground organizations until October 1963; secondly, amending the rules of appointment of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons; thirdly, providing for the integration of voivodeships as a task of voivodeship, not of the local government; fourthly, establishing voivodship voivodship councils. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 57 senators voted in favour, 27 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 18, 25 and 26 provide for an increase, ex officio, as from 1 January 2017, in the amount of the additive. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 27 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 22 assumes that already established Voivodship Advisory Councils on opposition activists will continue to act as councils set up by the voivodship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 27 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 23 is technical in nature and deletes normative unnecessary words. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted in favour, 24 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] [[Applause]] I declare that the bill and the draft resolution have been adopted... In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill amending the Act on activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jan Rulewski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposals of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter are contained in prints No 278 and 280. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present the proposals of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, held yesterday and today, adopted two draft resolutions. The first one concerns 1 amendment. Namely the Senate on the basis of the article. 13 Rules of Procedure of the Senate dismiss Senator Andrzej Misiołek from the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. A §2 states that the Senate of the Republic of Poland, on the basis of the same article, elects Senator Andrzej Biesiołek to the Legislative Commission. The draft second resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees in §1 states that the Senate dismisses Senator Aleksandr Swed from the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and Senator Rafał Ślusarz from the Health Committee. And according to §2 the Senate elects Senator Andrzej Kobiak to the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators, Senator Alexander Swed to the Legislative Commission and Senator Rafał Ślusarz to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Both resolutions shall enter into force on the date of their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? I don't see any volunteers. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of the Senate committees, print No 278. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of the Senate committees, print No 280. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate print No 274 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 57 senators voted in favour, 1 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which they requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate Print No 276 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law "Family and caring code" and the law "Civil Procedure Code." Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at this meeting. It is in print No 187 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee have once again bowed to the proposed proposal and confirmed their position that this law should be rejected. The amendment was therefore also not subject to a vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. Following the vote on the proposed amendment, we will proceed with the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety - print No 187 - as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 67 senators voted in favour, 14 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate rejected the draft law amending the Family and Care Code and the Civil Procedure Code and therefore terminated the proceedings in this case. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to Senate Print No 281 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment presented, followed by the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. The amendment reduces the risk of punishment for failing to comply with the obligations related to infectious diseases of animals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted in favour, no one voted against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Komarnicki hasn't voted yet... Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 84 senators voted in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. We proceed with a secret vote on the Senate's consent to the appointment of Marcin Ciche as President of the Office for Electronic Communications. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To conduct a secret vote, I appoint Senators of the Secretaries: Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Waldemar Sługocki. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. On the card... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. A break will then be ordered during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. Did all the senators receive the ballots? Yes. I ask Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to read the names of the senators sequentially, and I ask the senators to post their names in the ballot box filled with secret ballots after reading them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u126	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u127	Have all the senators voted? [[Me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, ……]] Thank you. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 9:55 p.m. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 44 to 21 minutes 57]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: consent to the appointment of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I now pronounce the results of the vote. 81 votes were cast, including 81 valid votes. 58 senators voted in favour, 22 senators voted against, one senator abstained. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has agreed to appoint Mr Marcin Ciche as President of the Office for Electronic Communications. I ask the President to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution from the Senate. [[Applause]] Does the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, Mr Marcin Cichy, want to speak? [[President of the Office of Electronic Communications Marcin Quichy: If possible.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you from this place and declare that I will not disappoint your trust. Thank you again very much for the positive assessment of my candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the twenty-sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Wczyła, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. The government is preparing a law which is intended to improve and accelerate the implementation of 2 investments: construction of the channel by Mierzyja and modernization of the Świnoujście watercourse Szczecin. The method is to exclude the application of parts of the normal rules and procedures. Specwat, among others. reduces the scope of appeals, shortens the time for decision-making and the obligation to obtain arrangements, permits or consent will replace the opinion procedure. Each of these provisions, which the Special Law allows us to circumvent, has its reasons for the decision-making process. Only important reasons can justify replacing them with a specialty. In the case of investments in the construction of the channel by Mierza there are no circumstances justifying circumvention and substitution of existing legislation by the special provisions. There are no significant ownership problems here, and most environmental issues have already been examined and consulted by the public. The new element is basically It's just a matter of dealing with amber deposits. For the final stage of the investment, the government is as old as 6 years old, so as long as it provided for the entire project, including the creation of concepts, social consultations and long-term environmental research. The schedule for the construction of the channel by Mierzyja by 2022 was foreseen by the PO-PSL government and this schedule is also implemented by the PiS government. Except the PO-PSL government did not provide for any special laws to meet this deadline. He saw in Polish almost no threats to the implementation of this investment. By introducing a specialty, the government takes the risk of raising protests from environmentalists who will use any attempt to exclude them from the decision-making process. This may provoke a wave of protests and accusations of neglecting the needs of the environment. As a result, the withdrawal from the legal procedures can destroy the entire long-term process and give arguments to the opponents of the project, who will grant the Polish State that the specialty wants to obscure the lack of substantive arguments and the willingness to fail to care for the natural environment. Such situations arouse emotions and protests. So we can expect physical blocking of investments and complaints to international organisations, including the European Court of Justice in The Hague, as in the case of the badly-famous construction of the highway in the Rospuda Valley. This scenario may result in the retention of investments for many years and even completely prevent it from being implemented. Please answer the following questions. First. What threat in Polish law for the construction of the canal by Mierzaj sees the government of PiS that it wants to implement it on the basis of a specialty? Two. Is 6 years which, according to the previous announcements of active and today's law and justice politicians, would be sufficient to create a concept, multi-annual environmental studies, tenders and investment implementation, not enough to achieve only the final stage of the project: recent amendments and additions, tender and channel construction? Third. Is the Polish government in dialogue with the European Commission and is it certain that simplification of environmental decisions, together with a possible reduction in the level of public consultation, will not become a basis for protests? At the same time, I call for the proposed law to be waived, at least in terms of the construction of the channel by Mierzaj, as completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. We don't have... Oh, no, I still have Senator Mr. Frost's report. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! My statement is addressed to Minister Elizabeth Rafalska. In my senator's office in Jelenia Góra, a resident of the district of Jelenia Góra asked for help. This person is an invalid with no left hand. According to the documents presented, as a child, in September 1939 she and her parents fled from German troops. During this escape, she lost her left hand as a result of the German bombing. Today it is an older person, requiring care and treatment. It asked the various offices, institutions and foundations to be supported and to obtain compensation or pension allowance in connection with the disability suffered during the war. She got refused everywhere. I therefore ask the Minister to ask whether in Poland, under the applicable civil law, victims of World War II are entitled to compensation or benefits in connection with the disability caused by the war. If so, where can such people call themselves? And if not, do you see the Minister's ability to make such changes in the law that would enable this group to obtain material support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-22-senat-26-2.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. Now we don't have any more calls. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[Voice from the room: No messages.]] No messages? I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The twenty-sixth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 22 minutes 06]]
