ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u1	I open the nineteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. I inform you that the Sejm at its 19th meeting on 20 May 2016 adopted all amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland and to the Act amending the Act on Public Service of Blood and certain other laws. I would also like to inform you that the minutes of the 15th and 16th Senate meetings in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider item 6 of the draft agenda, although the report of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the events of June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock were delivered later than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services The Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the Deposit Insurance Scheme and the Forced Restructuring Act and consider it as the second item of the agenda; Wind Power Plant Investment Act and consider this item as item 7 of the agenda; Law amending the Law on Higher Education and consider this item as item 8 of the agenda; the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws and consider this item as item 9 of the agenda; Act amending the Law on Research Institutes and consider this item as item 10 of the agenda, the Act establishing the Academy of War Arts and considering it as item 11 of the agenda; changes in the membership of Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Three people. The senator came forward first. There you go, Senator Rotnicka, and then Senator Wach. And someone else, right? [[Me too.]] And Senator Stanisławek. And you're the senator, right? Senator Grubski. In that order. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u2	Thank you very much. First of all, I am surprised at the revised agenda for what we have heard. This is actually a completely different meeting. But my objection is to point seven, which I will briefly call wind investment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, there was a rather lively and difficult discussion, which makes it clear that the bill presented by Members is, so to speak, very controversial and actually does not meet anybody's expectations, and, above all, greatly restricts the role of local self-government and its decision-making as regards the adoption of resolutions on the life of the local community, because it limits the possibility to decide where and what investments can be settled. The second important thing is this. Nowhere are the financial consequences of the changes in this law even approximated, the effects of which concern local governments. Finally, it must be said that the minister representing the government party, who, of course, is not the drafter of the bill, but supported this proposal in some way, behaved exceptionally unculturally, depreciated the statements of the senators, his statements were judged and rude. Such a position cannot be accepted. I therefore move that this law should not be subject to the procedure at the moment. The Commission tried to save it by introducing amendments, but this does not change the form of things, that it should be overworked and taken in peace, also in line with the expectations of local government and ordinary citizens who are also protesting in connection with the location of wind power plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Wach. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to object to the proposed point 10, i.e. in view of the inclusion on the agenda of the section on the Law amending the Law on Research Institutes. My justification is as follows. This is a bill that is appalling in the sense that this is another staff law, which in a rather direct way through the records leads to complete arbitraryness, the freedom of the change of directors of state research institutes by the Minister. This submission is almost absolute, because the council of the institute and the competition committee, which remain, are actually just a certain veiling process, while the minister gains full tools and It's weird. It appoints both the Director and the Deputy Director, which is already a complete kuriozum in this structure of administrative action. One of the reasons why the Minister may not accept or choose anyone even among the candidates presented by the competition committee is the lack of the proper functioning of the institute. Of course, the premise seems right, but it is very flexible, because the lack of guarantees can be applied whenever you want. This law also contains many other appalling elements against which representatives of institutes, or actually the councils of institutes, were not able to protest. Professor Rafalski was present at the meeting. His protests were substantive, but very delicate, because he himself is the director of the institute. Hence, his statement, which would fully reveal intentions and be decisive in the interests of the institutes, would expose him to a possible loss of his position. I believe that such a law should not be implemented in an accelerated manner. It should be examined in accordance with the plan so that the public and institutes can see the intentions of the text of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grubski, please. [[I'm in corrigendum mode.]] That's in a minute, because I've already given the floor to Senator Grubski. Later, Mr. Senator Wind in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u6	Mr Marshal, I object to the inclusion on the agenda of the item on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts. While remaining in the rhythm of Professor Wach's speech, I would like to say that this law is of a verifiable nature with regard to the current staff of the National Defence Academy. You can't totally agree to that. The name to be changed will have very far-reaching consequences, mainly in terms of staff minima for teaching there. I think the minister who explained the situation didn't quite give her the picture. Therefore, today I object to the inclusion of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Wind in corrigendum mode. [[I'm on a formal agenda.]] And Senator Pekkis in what mode? [[Stanisławek, formal request for the agenda.]] But it's not now, it's later. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to correct the information that Senator Wach provided regarding Professor Rafalski's participation in the committee meeting. I would like to say that Professor Rafalski, as chairman of the General Council of Research Institutes before the committee meeting, submitted two extensive studies to the committee, one included the proposed amendments and the other contained reasons for these amendments. Professor Rafalski presented his opinion unfetteredly at the meeting. I don't think it's right to say that something was limited. This hearing took place in the best possible place... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u10	As regards the Wind Power Act, yesterday a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee was held before the meeting of the local government committee. During the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure chaired by Mr Rogut in an efficient, reliable and, above all, complementary manner... All interested parties could comment, all experts could comment, all arguments were put forward. In my opinion, and in my opinion, the committee that was investigating this has no reason to prolong the legislative process, to proceed with the Wind Power Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u11	Thank you very much. I don't see any other calls. So we proceed to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. I put forward a proposal to introduce 8 new points, but there were 3 votes against. The first was about the Power Plant Investment Act... [[Mr. Marshal, you forgot about Senator...]] I haven't forgotten, Senator. I have a good memory. I'll speak to the senator later. Not right now... [[The voice from the room: But it was...]] Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me. He opposed the introduction of the Wind Power Plant Investment Act on the agenda. Who is in favour of my proposal, i.e. for the point on this law to be included on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] The point has been entered. The next formal motion was by Senator Piotr Wach. This was an objection to the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes. I put my motion to vote for this item to be placed on the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 23 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Therefore, the Law on the amendment of the Law on Research Institutes will be considered as point ten. And now we're gonna vote on my motion to put things in order. Senator Maciej Grubski's objection The Act on the Creation of the Academy of War Arts. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's in favour? Please... Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 23 against. [[Voting No 3]] The Act establishing the Academy of War Art was entered on the agenda as item 11. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome. Please, Senator. Senator Stanisławek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, and I'm very sorry... In view of the problem that on 16 April there will be a complaint from the European Commission to Strasbourg, I would ask for a new point: the Energy Efficiency Act; Senate Prints 184 and 184 A. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has concluded the meeting, there are conclusions. And I would very much ask you to include this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u13	Good. Thank you very much, Senator. Is anyone filing a counterclaim? Yes? Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, indeed, this issue will soon be brought to the European Court of Justice, but the Minister himself admitted that this is not the reason or the reason for delaying the normal work of the Senate, and I give it almost literally from the committee meeting. That's why I think we can totally calm down this bill, which requires a good thought, after all, literally in a week.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u15	Good. This is a formal objection. Who is in favour of introducing the point presented by Senator Stanisławek? Who's against it? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 80 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 24 against. [[Voting No 4]] I suggest you put this point in order as point eight. Are there any other reports of order? No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the nineteenth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I'm informing you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is important information, so I'm asking you to listen to it. Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Unless someone doesn't want to... All right. [[Voice from the room: He left...]] I saw who was leaving, yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is important information... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Quiet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is important information and I ask you to listen to it. I would like to inform you that the vote on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring, namely on the items on the first and second agenda, will be held today after a two-hour interruption, which will be ordered after consideration of these two points. After the vote, we will continue the deliberations and proceed with the next items on the agenda and the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Tomorrow, we begin at 9.00 a.m. with a point on the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council. I would like to inform you that, following the preparation by the Senate committees of the report on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on the review of this Act. In addition, I would like to inform you that if the Sejm adopts a law amending the Act amending the Law on the Information System in Health and some other laws after the Senate Committee has prepared a report on this matter, the agenda will be supplemented by a point including the review of the Act. I also inform you senators that the current Senate meeting has been extended until 10 June, which is until Friday. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. The text of the Act is contained in print No 183 and the report of the Commission In print No 183 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Antoni Szymański, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy an opinion on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services; Senate Print No 183. The Act, which was the subject of the joint economic committees and family committees, is a law prepared by the Government of the Republic of Poland. In the course of the Parliament's work, this law was amended to a small extent; it meant minor amendments, in fact legislative amendments. The purpose of the Act is to implement into the Polish legal system the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of that Directive. The Act is to enter into force on 18 June 2016, as set out in Article. The 23rd directive I mentioned. It requires Member States to introduce the necessary provisions for the implementation of the Directive by that date. The Act in question lays down minimum conditions for the employment of posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland, lays down the principle of joint and several liability of the entity entrusting the performance of certain tasks with the employer posting workers to the posted worker in respect of his remuneration. It shall also specify the tasks of the State Labour Inspection to cooperate with the competent authorities of other Member States with regard to the provision of information, to notify employers of the penalties imposed by the authorities of other States and to initiate the enforcement of those penalties. The National Labour Inspection will be required to maintain a website containing information, inter alia. on the conditions of employment, the responsibility of the employer and the procedures for complaint and redress. In accordance with the provisions of the State Labour Inspection, it will have the right to monitor the regularity of posting of workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Act also lays down the obligations of the employer of the posting of a worker in the territory of the Republic of Poland concerning the designation of contact persons, the submission of declarations containing relevant information on the circumstances of posting of workers and the storage of such information. The law which I am presenting to you at the moment did not give rise to a large debate at the meeting of the Joint Committees, in principle there was agreement on the legal solutions adopted and proposed by the Sejm. The Legislative Office submitted 9 comments, although not all of them proposed any proposals for changes to the various articles. The comments concerned not fundamental issues, but legislative issues and a more correct formulation of certain legal articles. At the committee meeting at the request of the government party, there was a half-hour break and an attempt to agree between the Legislative Bureau... An attempt has been made to make amendments together with the government. It turned out that it was too short a time and it was not possible to do so, so the proposal was made to adopt a law without amendments. And such a request was accepted by the joint committees. So much for the bill that I wanted to present to you on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Family Affairs, Senior Affairs and Social Policy. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Who was first? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you mentioned that half an hour wasn't enough to agree on the correctness of the bill. Does this mean that the committee, when voting, agreed to the incorrect act and presented it to the High House in this form? Isn't that a far-reaching conclusion, Senator rapporteur? Especially since, as I read, a new criminal concept was introduced as one of the cases in the form of an administrative fine. As I understand it, the legislative department has requested that the wording or other wording be corrected. I ask: doesn't the committee put us against the wall and force us to accept the wrong solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u19	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, we are working under some pressure of time, I mentioned the deadline on 18 June, when this directive is to apply in the Republic of Poland, is to be adopted. So this pressure of time is an important pressure. Indeed, during the committee meeting, the senators had not tabled any amendments. The Legal Office had, as I said, 9 comments. At that time, trying to agree with the government and make better changes did not work. But I can reassure the senator that the amendments will be tabled. I'll report them, too. During the debate that will be ongoing and also the changes proposed by the Legislative Office will be taken into account. So I'm assuming we don't take the wrong solution, we just adopt a good law with changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u21	Thank you. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u22	Mr President, the labour inspection will be burdened with quite a lot of new responsibilities. Did we receive information at the committee meeting that it would be equipped with adequate financial resources to take up these new tasks and make up for the staff employed for this purpose? This is the first case. Second thing. Much of the confusion was related to the so-called rules. the joint responsibility of the entity entrusting the execution of certain tasks with the employer posting the workers. Have these issues been clarified? And the third case. How many countries have already implemented this directive?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u23	The first thing you said about the senator. There was a reply from the State Labour Inspection which did not indicate that it had difficulty implementing this law. As for the other questions that weren't asked at the committee meeting or weren't discussed... I think that Minister Stanisław Swed here will explain these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u24	Thank you very much. I'm asking you questions... I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please forgive me for saying two sentences off the record. I would like to warmly welcome our colleague, Senator Boris-Damięcka. I'm happy for... [[Applause]] I'm glad to see the senator and the smile on his face. We're back in session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I would like to warmly welcome Minister Stanisław Swede. Welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to thank the High Senate very much for the fact that we can consider this law in the first place today and, as has already been emphasised in the rapporteur's speech, we are implementing the directive. The deadline for implementing this Directive is 18 June. There is no direct answer to whether all countries have already implemented it, it is implemented at different times. It is an obligation to implement the so-called "on 18 June'. implementation directive, but we also know perfectly well The High Senate was also involved in this matter. The European Commission has already proposed a further revision of the basic directive. Also thanks to the position of the Senate, but also the determination of our government, this second process of implementing the basic directive has been succeeded in halting. We've been able to introduce the so-called. yellow card procedure. We have acquired 11 other countries, which are also opposed to the revision of this basic directive, we have collected an appropriate number of votes and so-called. the yellow card procedure we have time to approach this subject calmly once again. The issue is very important, especially for our country, as we are a country which designates the most workers beyond its borders in the framework of posting, hence these solutions are important. What has already been said, the matter of imposing new obligations on the State Labour Inspection... Of course, we are aware that these are new tasks, but also... Once again, I thank the Senate for leaning over the State Labour Inspection in this year's budget, adding the amount of PLN 5 million to its budget for additional tasks which fall for the inspection. But I think that the next budget will also need to be strengthened by the State Labour Inspection, as other tasks related to other directives will also depend on it. As far as what Senator Augustine asked about joint and several liability is concerned, it is not possible to refer directly to the provisions of the Labour Code, as the labour law on this issue is applied to a limited extent. Also in the article. 7 we clarify these records. With regard to the concept of due diligence, this is, in accordance with Article. The 8th Act consists, I believe, in particular, of providing precise written information on the terms of employment and of making a declaration notifying the fact of posting. After the discussion in the committee, during which no substantive comments were submitted to the law itself, but there were comments from the Senate Legislative Office on more precise records, we came to the conclusion And the government accepts that. It is appropriate to make specific amendments that the High Senate, I hope, will accept. Then this bill will be well prepared and we will clarify it further in the Seym, following the amendments of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u26	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u27	Minister, the law concerns those workers who will be posted to Poland from other countries of the European Union, but not only. It may also apply to workers who are posted from other countries outside the European Union. Please tell me, how does the Ministry estimate what group of employees may be affected by this law and from what, say, the largest countries? Because the responsibilities that are written here are quite large and we should be aware of the scale of the commitment that the Republic wants to take. That's the first question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u28	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u29	Mr Senator, when it comes to posting workers to EU countries and other countries, we estimate that we are talking about around 400 000 workers. In the case of the opposite, this figure is much smaller when it comes to EU countries. I'd like to find in the materials the number we're talking about, but... We're talking about tens of thousands of people who, I'm going to say, can use it on us. The aim is to ensure a level playing field for the employment of posted workers, with minimum employment standards in the countries which delegate workers As well as on the other hand... That's the purpose of this record. But here the important aim of this solution is also that when imposing obligations on the State Labour Inspection, it is possible to appeal against penalties imposed on Polish companies by the control authorities there. Today it seems that the penalty is imposed, and the tax office in our country strictly enforces it. Now there will still be a control mechanism used by the State Labour Inspection. And then there'll be like a second possibility, there'll be an opportunity to appeal if there's a question of checking... As for the exact details, the senator will allow us to hand them over to the senator in writing. [[Good. Thank you.]] I don't want to mislead the Senate here by giving us, like, an incomplete number of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u30	Senator Augustine will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u31	Thank you. I was just about to ask for such written information. I would like, Minister, to come back again... to ask you a question about the article. The seven you mentioned. I was expressing during the committee meeting. And now I'm asking you this, too, the fear that the inaccurate provisions of the article. 7, the lack of reference to the provisions of the Labour Code, which I believe should be amended so that this responsibility can be carried out jointly and severally efficiently, and only the references to the Civil Code, can cause, in fact, in these cases, such a specific ping-pong and a complete removal during the possibility of enforcing liability. The point is that we don't really know in what proportions, who in the first place and who in the second place should be jointly and severally liable. And it's a recipe which, by its very nature, In my opinion, I would ask you to dispel my doubts. It will give rise to conflicts and disputes, and the employee will be the one who will try to pursue his rights in vain for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u32	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u33	Mr. Senator, Art. 7, which refers us to the civil code in its entirety in terms of joint and several liability... According to this provision, according to the article. 366 of the Civilian Code The joint and several joint liability of the debtor is that a few debtors may be obliged in such a way that the creditor may claim all or part of the benefit from all debtors together, from several of them or from each of them individually, and the satisfaction of the creditor by any of the debtors shall exempt the remaining debtors. And further: Until the full satisfaction of the creditor all debtors are jointly and severally bound. I think it's the art. 369 of the civil code, which we apply directly in this law, complies with the standard that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u34	Another question. Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u35	That goes for the same thing. Mr. Minister, what you have read is valid for all claims... And there would be no need to write it into any other law, because it already is. But since we're writing this down, it's like, I'm really sorry, we're pushing all those people on this path who might just feel obliged to pay, and that's what they say: "There's a joint responsibility, then why?" You want me to wear it? Let's say she's in solidarity. And actually, even before this execution under the Civil Code, we ourselves cause this record to start a dispute. That is why I believe that this provision will not serve the workers well, because it cannot be applied precisely and I believe it refers to the provisions that we are simply going to create in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u36	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u37	Honestly, I don't share that concern, Senator. At each stage, the consultation process of this law was long. The project went through the whole process and offices, also the Senate Legislative Office, in this respect they spoke. We were looking for the best solutions and records. Amendments that will further clarify the rules will serve this purpose. I think the bill will also protect workers' rights well. Of course, time will tell which one of us was right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u38	Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u39	I'd like to ask you about the article. 3. The State proposes to use such a wording concerning the administrative fine. The legislators indicated that this kind of concept does not work. There is either an administrative penalty or a fine And here we have something completely new that really introduces a conceptual mess. Is the Ministry willing to modernise this provision so that it is clear and does not cause controversy?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u40	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u41	Here, of course, we're open. Those amendments, which somehow clarify... Yeah, but it seems to be accurate. I don't recall discussing any doubts here. But if there's anything else, there's an offer that you can look at, yes. However, it seems to me that in this case there was no doubt on the part of the Senate Legislative Office. [[Ex-boyfriends, ex-boyfriends.]] I don't want to... I don't have all the materials in front of me, so... as I say, the amendments we propose are agreed with the Senate Legislative Office and, as I said, they clarify the bill. I think this bill will be legible and understandable to everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u42	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the Minister? No. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Augustine. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have tabled 7 amendments and I would like to present them very briefly. Amendment No 1 seeks to clarify the definition of an employer posting an employee to the territory of the Republic of Poland and the definition of an employer posting an employee from the territory of the Republic of Poland. In both cases the posting may take place in a group of companies, the clarification requires that this is a group of companies to which the employer who resigns belongs rather than any group of undertakings. Amendment 2 is purely sequencing and seeks to delete the reference to paragraph in the provisions of the Law. Article 4 24. In those provisions, the reference to paragraph is sufficient. Article 3 24, which concerns the statement and its contents. In the mouth. Article 4 24 The Act contains only the additional content of the declaration required from certain employers posting workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland. Amendments 3 and 5 are linguistic in nature and aim to use a better wording. In these provisions, I propose to replace the terms "elements' and "elements', which correspond more to the content of those provisions. Amendments n 4 and No 7 seek consistency in the form in which the State Labour Inspection receives information from employers and entrepreneurs. The Act on State Labour Inspection, which is a basic law in this respect, provides for the form of a request as appropriate for the presence of such entities. Amendment 6 is more specific. It is proposed to replace too common the definition of paying taxes and social security contributions by a better wording indicating that they are subject to obligations in this respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u44	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Freedom of movement for employment is one of the pillars of the European Union. As the European Union grows, when the people of Europe, especially of the newly adopted countries, benefit from this right by moving to other countries, this issue is becoming increasingly controversial. We have dealt with this issue, we have taken a position on this matter, as President Szymański mentioned and you have reminded the Minister. Major changes are in preparation and actually cause a lot of disputes. The media reports that, when it comes to the work of drivers, the European Commission opposes the proceedings of France or Germany, which try to limit the freedom of movement of workers by internal rules. What we are doing today is to equip posted workers, so a group, those who, let's call it, do not go on their own, but are sent by specific companies to work in another country, with certain powers and to ensure that this work is legal. From this point of view, this directive is beneficial for Poles taking up work in other countries. That is why I asked whether all countries were fulfilling themselves in a timely manner, as we want to do, with the obligation to implement the provisions of this directive. This is extremely important to our employees. We know how often, due to the lack of good information about the powers that employees have, our citizens employed outside the territory of the Republic are, so to speak, taken by the employers there. Well, if they find a guardian in the associations or trade unions there, they will pursue one another. It's gonna be easier now. This also applies to workers who come to us and who are from outside the European Union. It is important to see that the Polish labour market needs these workers and that the violation of workers' rights in the case of Ukrainians, Belarusians and others who come here as a result of posting is not a good card of our country and it does not encourage us to have guests who want to work with us often in areas where Poles do not want to work. Or for which we have too few educated people... The point is that these people should be properly protected. But for that to happen, these instruments have to work. In my opinion, this is not exactly what the Minister said here, that the extra money that we put in the Senate here was meant to be. Absolutely not. It was really money intended for new, fresh tasks, but resulting from previously adopted laws, not from this law. We should remember the Minister's words about us again in the Senate, so that these are not empty records, so that the labour inspection is carried out. Today we will also look at another law which is intended to intensify its ability to take action, which was equipped with the appropriate means and could serve to inform and protect those workers whom we need in Poland, and who will come here as a posting from other countries, not so much the European Union as other European countries. As far as specific issues are concerned, I believe that the wording of the administrative fine, which is transferred directly from the Directive, is unfortunate. It appears in the dictionary, but not as a separate concept. If it were so that it would be a completely separate concept, which we define in the law, it would be acceptable. But it is used in a different definition, let's call it a dictionary to this law, but it introduces a completely new fee, a new penalty, which from the point of view of Polish codes is neither a fine nor an administrative fee, it is an administrative fine. In my opinion, this is a curiosity situation that should be eliminated, although it is a really complicated matter. Therefore, I do not dare to make an amendment today, but knowing that there will soon be a major revision of the legislation in this area, let us remember that in order to bring it fully into line with the provisions of Polish law, without calculating that, so to speak, from European rules. To conclude, I would like to say that this law must be supported if it takes into account a quite large package of amendments tabled by the legislators, but it must also be borne in mind that this concerns very controversial issues on which a rather important discussion is beginning in Europe. It is good that we want to set a good example in implementing the directive, but let us bear in mind that the provisions of a major amendment, a large directive, do not necessarily have to be beneficial to us. Will we then act similarly and implement its rules in a timely manner? Time will tell.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u46	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Senator Szymański has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. The Minister did not want to respond to the proposals put forward. Does anyone from the Ministry want to do this on behalf of the Minister? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u47	Anita Gwarek, Director of Labour Law Department. As regards the amendments tabled by Senator Szymanski, we support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u48	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held after the second point and the two-hour break, as Marshal Karczewski said. We proceed with the second agenda: the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring. The text of the Act is contained in print No 180 and the report of the committee In print No 180 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance at its meeting on 1 June considered the Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund and the Deposit Guarantee Scheme and the compulsory restructuring adopted by the Sejm on 20 May. The Commission calls for 28 amendments, which are the result of a very long and in-depth discussion with invited guests, including representatives of those who will be subject to the current regulation. This regulation, please, is extremely important; it is one of the pillars of the so-called. The banking union complements, as it were, the creation of a single banking supervision operating throughout the European Union. Poland is the last country to adopt the provisions implementing the relevant directive. The deadline for the implementation of this Directive in national law expired in 2014. We are now in such a situation that the European Commission has already taken legal action against Poland in relation to the failure to implement this directive. So our committee worked very quickly, trying to keep up with the events so as to allow the adoption of this law still in June and, thus, to withdraw the European Commission's proposal from the Court of Justice to punish Poland. The penalties requested by the European Commission are EUR 50 000 per day. So this is the situation that we have now, which is the result of tardiness, delays in the previous government. Unfortunately, it took a very long time to prepare this law. Perhaps because the concept of implementing this directive has been adopted, which is to a large extent an extension of the provisions of the Directive and complements them. A way of shaping organs that will carry out so-called. resolution, i.e. problem solving, is different from what has been adopted in other countries. The role of the Banking Guarantee Fund is extremely important here, which is not the case in other countries where this directive has been implemented. Therefore, it was necessary to build up the Banking Guarantee Fund with appropriate rules, giving it new powers which the Directive did not require. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that this law extends the functioning of the Directive beyond the scope defined in the Directive, i.e. beyond these systemicly relevant entities. May I remind you of the indicators determining the relevance of the institution: EUR 30 billion in assets, 20% GDP, etc. In Poland, it was decided whether the government decided to include this resolution procedure in all entities operating on the deposit and credit market, i.e. cooperative banks and cooperative savings and credit banks. It was therefore necessary to regulate the resolution specifically for these entities. These players have been very active in our committee's work, and they have called for a number of amendments that have been adopted by the committee. As a result of the amendments made by the cooperative banks to this law, SKOK those entities which do not have to be covered by this regulation will be covered in such a way, so to speak, less burdensome or in a manner appropriate to their size and importance for the market. As regards the specific amendments, the committee devoted the most time to discuss the situation of cooperative banks and the need to create another third cooperative bank association. This is what a group of more than 100 cooperative banks have been calling for, which have been very intensively aligned with the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The senators received several letters from cooperative banks asking them to facilitate their creation of a new association. The creation of such associations is possible as a result of the amendment of the Act of 7 December 2000 on cooperative banks and their association. This new apex bank is to operate differently than the existing association banks, it is not to operate its own credit and deposit activities. This is also the result of the amendment proposed by representatives of cooperative banks and which was taken over by a group of senators. This amendment reduces the capital requirement for the associate bank, the apex bank, which is expected to conduct its business differently from the existing associate banks, i.e. to take less risk. The amendment reduces the required initial capital by half to EUR 10 million, which is still twice the capital required to set up a commercial bank in Poland. This amendment was supported. We believe that it should be read together with a requirement which, after all, remains in the banking law, a requirement for the capital adequacy of the bank. So we're just talking about making it easier for cooperative banks to raise initial capital. After all, the capital held in such an association bank must be appropriate to the scale of the business. This provision remains intact. The second important point I would like to draw attention to is the change in the composition of the fund board. The Senators' Group decided to change the composition of the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund in such a way that only representatives of public institutions were present. Representatives of private institutions were removed from the board. And such an institution is the Union of Polish Banks. New powers for BFG, which are the basis for narrowing the composition of the Banking Board of the Guarantee Fund only to persons representing state institutions... Allow me to exchange these powers for you. These are: the creation by the Bank Guarantee Fund of compulsory restructuring plans, the assessment of their feasibility, the issuing of recommendations to financial institutions to remove the obstacles identified to the effective implementation of the procedure, the imposition on financial institutions of an obligation to provide information necessary for the drawing up of plans for compulsory restructuring proceedings, the redemption and conversion of financial instruments by the BFG, and the issuing of decisions by the BFG in the entity to initiate and conduct the compulsory restructuring procedure. Thus, the change in the nature of the Banking Guarantee Fund, the granting of power to it within the meaning of the committee, makes it impossible to function as a board of persons who do not represent state institutions, state bodies. The other amendments which the committee has adopted are mostly legislative, ordering amendments. The correction is 28. I would also like to inform you that during the debate I will make further amendments, resulting from the hard work of our legislators and the Ministry of Finance, which until the last moment is still improving this law. The committee will therefore continue to prepare an additional report, supplementing the amendments. So much for briefing on the meeting on the committee's report on this law. Of course, I am at your disposal if there are any questions. But I don't think there are any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u50	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[No.]] I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes.]] I warmly welcome Minister Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the position of the government with regard to the draft Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, contained in Senate printing No 180. The project consists of the implementation of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of national institutions and investment firms The Directive is briefly referred to as the BRRD Directive and Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes, in short as the DGSD Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, may I allow you to briefly illustrate the situation in this regulatory segment. At the time of the financial market crisis in 2008 Poland had ad hoc solutions, giving the finance minister the high powers to act to give liquidity to institutions that could lose liquidity as a result of different circumstances. I recall the bill in the Seym and the Senate which gave the finance minister the power to grant this liquidity to as much as 50 billion. Then there was an ongoing discussion on how the settlements between the public sector and commercial entities in this area would look like, because in the first version of the government project, the Minister of Finance also had the competence to waive these amounts in whole or in part. Eventually, the idea was withdrawn. Another approach to regulation in this segment was that we had a law on the recapitalisation of certain financial institutions, the essence of which was that the public sector included ownership interests in repaired entities. But many controversy was also raised by the fact that, in a specific situation when the condition of these entities was improving, they regained liquidity and again increased the valuation of these assets, there was a compulsion to push public capital and a public investor out of their ownership position. There were certain dates for this departure. Today we have another comprehensive regulation, this time not native, but universal, international, European. As President Grzegorz Bierecki said, Poland is one of the last countries Perhaps there are still 2, 3 such countries that have not implemented this directive. We're on the right track because the work is on completion. Thank you for the smooth work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on this document. Let me just remind you that in the Committee on Public Finance, and especially in the Permanent Committee on Financial Institutions, a huge work has been done on the systematicisation of the regulations contained in this very comprehensive document. For this work, I would like to thank the senators and the Members very warmly. I just want to mention... Mr Bierecki described these regulations in very detail, but let me only turn to this information and convey in a condensed form how this project, written in the previous term of the Sejm, was modified in the course of the work of the current parliament more than a year and a half ago. The most important changes that have been made to it concern the strengthening of the role of Minister of Finance in relation to the Banking Guarantee Fund. Now the Minister of Finance will perform a supervisory function, it is a requirement to consult certain decisions and to submit copies of resolutions. The role of the Board of the Fund in relation to the Management Board has also been strengthened by the possibility of appealing a member of the Management Board. The deadline for reaching the target level of the deposit guarantee scheme by 3 July 2030 for banks and cash registers has been extended. Other interesting solutions: for example, the target of funding for forced restructuring was reduced to 1.2% of the amount of funds guaranteed by banks, branches of foreign banks and investment firms. The deadline for reaching the target for financing the compulsory restructuring of banks and investment firms was extended by 30 December 2030. Poland's penalty of EUR 51 million of EUR 456 thousand, calculated on the possible delivery of a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, has already been mentioned. It's an element of time pressure. I can honestly say that we have tried to keep this pressure to ourselves, and that is why the work in Parliament has been going on for three months after all. I hope... If this is done well here in the Senate, there is a full chance that this week the bill will leave the High House of the Sejm after the Senate's amendments have been voted. In this situation, there is still a chance that these penalties simply do not pay. We are very careful about these regulations, because they actually give new competences to the Banking Guarantee Fund, the competences standardised with those ideas that have been developed in the European Union. They aim, inter alia, to reduce the deadline for depositors to pay out money from 20 working days to 7 working days, to specify which categories of deposits or depositors are mandatoryly excluded from warranty protection and are therefore not protected, to provide warranty protection to developers' customers, to temporarily cover certain categories of cash or depositor's claims as set out in the proposed law with a guarantee above the value in PLN 100 000, for example for real estate disposal, compensation or inheritance acquisition. So that these regulations reach very well distributed details in such a way that there will be no controversy afterwards. Of course, we hope that the bill will not have to work. At the same time, it is too late to make rules when they are really needed. And that is what I would like to present here in addition to the report presented by the President of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki, about the amendments and how this document was further modified in the course of the work of the Committee on Budgets of the Senate and further developed in the following elements. So that's it for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u52	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I'm not asking, I'm signing up to speak.]] I'm talking about questions. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we're dealing with is an extremely important act. She implements two important EU directives in the Polish legal system in 2014, the Deposit Insurance Schemes Directive and the Directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions. Undoubtedly, these directives are a prostrate, the result of the great financial crisis that Europe and the world have experienced, and it has been about the banking system. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, suggestions were made. And he repeated this suggestion. Today, too, Mr President, Senator Bierecki, that these directives were not introduced into the Polish legal system because of the tardiness of the government. I would like to inform the High House that the bill was fully prepared in the autumn of last year and was the subject of a permanent committee meeting of the Council of Ministers, and, in principle, if it had not been for election time, it would have been adopted by the Council of Ministers and processed last year. It was fully prepared by the Minister of Finance and was the basis for work already in the new term of office. In principle, in its basic scope, this law is as prepared by the government in its previous term of office. Changes in the Act Although of course I do not deny that some of them were needed and justified In the public finance sector as a whole, cooperative credit and savings banks are highly favoured. Besides, the amendments we accepted in committee, in a large part, also these additional powers and privileges for the SKOK system introduce. Indeed, this law is quite late, but, knowing Parliament's legislative efficiency, it could have been decided earlier in this term of office, bearing in mind that the law, as I say, has already been prepared. In addition to, as I said, many good records, records that guarantee the security of citizens' contributions and make financial turnover more transparent, also have weaknesses. I drew attention to these weaknesses during my work in the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Let me remind you of some things here. At the same time, I would like to make two amendments that I tabled at the committee's meeting so that they could be examined again by the committee and then by the High House. The Act imposes a very high financial burden on banks on the functioning of the guaranteed deposit and resolution system for the Banking Guarantee Fund. The target level of funds to be collected by the banks in the fund has been slightly reduced in the course of the seymical work, but is still incomparably higher than the minimum requirements contained in the directives and higher than that applied in many European Union countries. The Act obliges banks to maintain the existing Guarantee Fund, although this does not result from the requirements of the Directives. The Act also introduces unequal conditions for competition between different credit institutions And, as the High House remembers, we have always sought to make the conditions for these institutions comparable. The requirements for the ceiling for the collection of funds in the Bank Guarantee Fund, imposed on cooperative savings and credit banks, are very low in relation to the funds that banks have to contribute to the Bank Guarantee Fund. This large difference in burden levels can probably raise constitutional doubts. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that in recent years it has been the cooperative credit and savings banks that have benefited from the funds collected in the Bank Guarantee Fund, thanks to the fact that in the previous term we have adopted a regulation which gave the bank guarantees of the Bank Guarantee Fund to the funds raised in the cooperative credit and savings banks. If we hadn't introduced these records during the previous term of office And you remember how huge it was, during the implementation of this law, the destruction in this matter by the parts and the Sejm and the Senate. Today we would probably have a problem with the dramatic situation of many, many members of cooperative savings and credit banks. However, thanks to these guarantees of the Bank Guarantee Fund, they have and had guaranteed the funds they have contributed to the deposits. After all, we remember that at that time, the Bank Guarantee Fund consisted only of cooperative banks and commercial banks. The Act provides for the possibility of mutual financing of activities covered by the spectrum of interest in the Banking Guarantee Fund from the banking sector and the SKOK area: corrective actions and payment of guarantees in cash can be financed by the banks, and corrective actions and payment of guarantees in banks can be financed by funds collected by the SKOKs. However, in practice, in view of the clearly lower burden on these types of financial institutions for the Banking Guarantee Fund, which would be enshrined in the Act, this will mean that mainly bank funds will continue to finance the resolution of cooperative savings banks. I hope that the SKOKs will not have any financial problems, that this state that has occurred in recent years will pass, but if the situation of these institutions were to repeat itself, as it has been in recent times, it would indeed be quite important. An important element which is the subject of my amendment is the fact that the Act states that the contributions to the Banking Guarantee Fund are not considered as revenue collection costs for the purpose of calculating income tax. I have prepared an amendment to restore the state of the former legal system, so that these contributions should also be at a cost in the context of income tax. This amendment concerns all financial institutions: cooperative banks, but also cooperative savings banks. On the occasion of the amendment of the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, changes have also been made which, in my opinion, restrict the powers of the Financial Supervision Authority a little, since they say that all decisions, reminders, etc., will be able to implement only the Financial Supervision Commission and not the Authority of the Financial Supervision Authority, i.e. authorised officials. This may lead to the situation that these supervisory, decision-making issues will be limited or hindered. And a few comments on the amendments we adopted at the committee meeting. First of all, the amendment, which solves the fund's board in its current form and assumes membership less than the representatives of the banking side, i.e. mainly the Polish Bank Association. It seems to me, and even I am convinced, that the Polish Bank Association, which represents those who make up the guarantee fund, could be, and should even be represented, because they are those who pass on these funds, and therefore their comments on the functioning of the fund, I think, would contribute to its stabilisation and to such a good link between the fund and those who pay, i.e. banks or cooperative savings banks. So this principle of representation in the Bank Guarantee Fund seems to me as if by means of an out-of-office factor it should be restored, all the more so because the experience of the 25 years of the board, which was composed of bank representatives, was rather positive experience and did not indicate any problems, even the opposite, often the bank representation stabilized the situation of the fund board. After all, we remember that at a time when there were frequent changes in the composition of the fund board It was 10 years ago, then this composition of the fund board changed very often. In this sense, the representatives of the banks' union have affected the situation in the fund board to a certain extent. There is an amendment that I supported, but which raises some doubts. It concerns a reduction in capital requirements for cooperative banks. This case caused a lot of controversy in many of our earlier discussions on banking law and cooperative law, etc. We were wondering what to do. At the moment, there is a rule that banks' associations will normally be able to function even though they do not meet the collateral requirements. I don't want to write it down. People who are interested know this case well. And then I thought that maybe it would be worth it, of course, we want all these cooperative banks to function, because they often play a very important role in the local market, but this would probably require legislative initiative. The point is that banks that do not comply with the requirements of the Act can transform They are generally small, much smaller banks, but play an important role in the local market, e.g. in cooperative savings and credit banks, with the possibility of associating with the National Bank or setting up its separate National Bank, which would bring together such institutions. At the same time, such a solution could be introduced. In this regard, I had already adopted many years ago that cooperative savings and credit banks, which meet all banking requirements, would have the option of becoming cooperative banks operating under normal rules of full banking responsibility. This would allow for smooth transition from one state or another, and the client would know whether he is a client of a bank with this level of collateral, another institution, etc., etc. How do I do that? Today, I cannot answer this question clearly, but I think that this case could be the subject of the Senate's initiative. Because this provision, which we have now included in the Act, goes hand in hand with small cooperative banks that do not meet the security requirements, but its adoption may also pose certain risks and lead to situations where there may be unequal burdens on individual categories of banks. And there's another amendment that raises my doubts. It is by far the largest "introduction of the period'. This is Amendment 27 on the revision of the Article. 380a. It is a delay in the date of entry into force of the provisions of the Act in the part concerning compulsory restructuring in respect of cash registers. Following the adoption of this amendment, the provisions of the existing Act in part of the aid to banks cannot be applied while the instruments of forced restructuring cannot be used. Thus, the only action that can be taken against the banks will be the possibility to apply after bankruptcy for the payment of guaranteed deposits by the Bank Guarantee Fund. I am making these two amendments, which I am announcing, and thank you very much for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u54	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few comments from my senator friend. First of all, the so-called question. preference of cooperative savings and credit banks. This issue was discussed at the committee meeting, and we have received an explanation from the director, who is present today. He made it clear that we do not have a preference in this law for cooperative savings and credit banks. Both banks and SKOKs have to raise an additional 1% under the Act under discussion here. deposits on relevant funds in the Banking Guarantee Fund. Another is the level of take-off: commercial banks already have 1,6% of the accumulated And the money doesn't have anything in the Bank Guarantee Fund. Nevertheless, the value of the measures to be collected and the rate of collection are identical. So it is difficult to talk about the advantages resulting from this law. As far as the value of the measures to be guaranteed by banks and SKOKs is concerned, of course no one denies that these institutions do differ, differ in the size of their activities, but also in the scope of the activities they can carry out, and in the scale of the risks they can take. Therefore, in line with the recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal... the Court, when considering the Act on the Constitutional Tribunal, adopted a fundamental ruling that the burden of supervision and the burden of obligations between the cash registers and banks should be differentiated, since the cashiers have a limited scope of activity, both subject-matter and subject-matter. Cash registers are exclusively for their members, for individuals, and banks can serve anyone, including large corporations, legal entities. Banks have a long list of banking activities that they can perform, and the cash registers can only perform a few absolutely basic activities. So that the relevant ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is already in circulation and I think that here the senator... I do not know if you participated in the part of the sitting when the Director clearly explained that we are not dealing with inequality and preference here. As far as the scale of the burden is concerned, particularly for cooperative banks, this is the case with this amendment, which allows them to establish a new association that operates on a slightly different basis than the existing associations. This amendment aims to reduce the burden for cooperative banks under the law at issue, but also for obligations at all, which are not large banks for these small entities. They are imposed, you can say, just as they are on large commercial banks. I think that in this part we are dealing with an important problem of inequality and the lack of adequacy of burdens. Cooperative banks operate in a sector that is not particularly lucrative. The services they offer are services for farmers, often located in one county. This is not banking, which provides great income, this is not banking, whose profitability would be comparable to that of commercial banks. At the same time, cooperative banks are forced not only to hold high capital, in proportion to the size of commercial banks, but also to build associations, so-called. IPS, which is introduced by the law and to which the Financial Supervision Commission is currently driving cooperative banks, ignoring the completely legal possibility of creating an integrated association where such high requirements and costs do not exist for cooperative banks participating in the association. They don't exist. The Financial Supervision Commission would like all cooperative banks within existing associations to participate in IPS. But participation in IPS is very expensive for cooperative banks. Therefore, it is mainly small cooperative banks whose profitability is not high and whose performance is not high but sufficient for both the scale of activities defined territorially and the scale of activities defined by the balance sheet sum of those banks. That's why cooperative banks want to form an association. . which allows them to adopt a law However, administrative action makes it difficult for them to set up this association of Financial Supervision Commissions, whose officials are very convinced that all cooperative banks should be covered by IPS. So it can be said that, in some sense, the administration of the Financial Supervision Commission prevents certain cooperative banks from benefiting from the benefit of the law that is in force. The legislator provided for the possibility of creating integrated associations which are not as costly for cooperative banks as IPS. It's so short for your senators, because it's a very important amendment. After all, we are talking about an amendment which, above all, meets the expectations of more than 100 cooperative banks. This number is changing because the pressure from the Financial Supervision Authority is enormous. Today I received another letter from those cooperative banks that are going to form a new association. The penalty of up to PLN 20 million is already being imposed on members of the boards and supervisory boards of cooperative banks if they do not comply with existing IPS. I am very surprised by such a letter, such a position in a situation where the legislator allows for the possibility of creating an association on different terms. Why this capital? I'd like to reassure Senator Kleina here. Can it be smaller in this new association? Why could he be any smaller? This difference is important because of the operation of the appetizer bank. The apex bank we are talking about is not to perform banking activities for clients, non-financial entities. So he's not gonna collect corporate deposits, the population, he's gonna only serve cooperative banks. Another important feature of this association resulting from the Act is the non-profit nature of its activities. Such a bank will have low operating costs and will not distribute dividends by pooling funds faster than an alternative model of association. Flattened organisational structure, low level of employment, acceptance of outsourcing of services by an appetizer bank all this affects the reduction of the burden that are imposed on cooperative banks. Of course, I am not surprised that cooperative banks, seeing this alternative, do not want to subscribe to existing associations, but want to have a choice. And why do they want a choice? It happened during our committee meeting. They are also looking for this alternative because they do not want to take responsibility for the losses they have incurred in previous years in managing existing associations. This mainly applies to the Bank of Polish Cooperatives, which has recorded high losses over the last years. If I remember correctly what the members of this association have represented, over the last three years, losses have been over 150 million every year. The representatives of the cooperative banks told us that the idea of chasing them to IPS is an idea that their capital, which they have accumulated over the years and which are the property of farmers, members of these cooperative banks, has now flooded this hole, mainly in the Bank of Polish Cooperatives; I would remind you that the chairman of the Supervisory Board was Krystyna Skowrońska. It's like we have this political flavor when we talk about the economy. So they do not want to participate in this undertaking. Today, I have also been informed that one of the reasons why these cooperative banks are so chased into IPS is that they have been guaranteed employment there since October, when staff changes occur in the management of the Financial Supervision Commission; their colleagues will hire them there and there will be a cap for which these cooperative banks will pay. These are all the things that we heard about during the committee meeting, and I encourage the senators to read this transcript, and it will certainly be a very interesting reading. We also learned from the letters that were addressed to the committee. During the sitting, no one commented on these arguments, which I have repeated to the senators today. No one discussed with the association which is cheaper for cooperative banks. No one discussed whether the Financial Supervision Commission did not exceed its powers by forcing cooperative banks to enter the IPS and restricting them from making use of the statutory regulation to set up their own integrated association. That's it. As regards the amendment concerning the Union of Polish Banks and the presence of their representative on the Council, I will say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, once the Bank Guarantee Fund was actually a treasury, there was a collection of money that was paid as a result of the decision of the Financial Supervision Authority. He didn't have authority. In this Act, the Bank Guarantee Fund is a very strong institution, with strong powers of power. It receives all information relating to the bank's activities, including confidential information, which is a company's secret. He has full knowledge of every bank's situation. It can also take prescriptive action or even punish entities that participate in the BFG system. So these are great powers. There is no room for lobbyists in the committee's opinion. There isn't. These powers have changed, the position of the Banking Guarantee Fund has changed. There should be officials whose links to the market will be limited to the fact that they will have their own bank account, and I do not, of course, refuse them, God forbid, but they will not represent any bank or manage it. That doesn't mean the Bank Guarantee Fund will be deaf to the sector's opinions. But this communication is. It is clear that the management of the Banking Guarantee Fund will cooperate with the Polish Bank Association, talk to it, discuss, but representatives of the Polish Bank Association during these discussions cannot look BFG into cards. And one last thing. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, I'm abusing kindness, but this is the last one, I promise you that these transformations of cooperative banks in SKOK-i and SKOKs into cooperative banks. There was an offer, I remember, like, ten years ago. On the occasion of the next amendment of the Act on Cooperative Banks, a group of cooperative banks appeared, which wanted to transform into SKOK-i. It was then blocked by the president Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who prefers to have things organized. She wasn't interested in changing, not even good changes. Is it necessary now? We'd better listen to this sector's expectations. The cooperative banks sector, these smaller cooperative banks want to benefit from the benefits of the law, they want to make associations on a different basis. Let's not make this harder for them. Let's help them. And let us make it clear to the officials of the Financial Supervision Commission that obstructing cooperative banks' use of the opportunities that the law gives them is a violation of their powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u56	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Kazimierz Klein... [[Sorry, I forgot to fold. Okay, here we go.]] ...and Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. [[I'm sorry.]] You made it. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] [[You'd almost miss it.]] [[Yeah, I'd miss it, 'cause I've been talking.]] The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes, please.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Such extensive regulation, which we are dealing with, raises a lot of discussions about the banking sector, all its actors and participants. On the occasion of these discussions, which lasted many weeks, all these elements were mentioned in the public opinion. They're already here. They are often controversial, and at other times they are disputed and require clarification, discussion, clarification. It is known that the key issue in the banking sector is customer confidence. We want to create such a right, so that this trust of customers in financial institutions, banking is adequate to the legal situation, to the economic situation of these entities. During the process of this document, a lot of time and attention was paid to whether there was a disproportion of the privileges of certain participants and entities covered by the whole deposit guarantee scheme, the Resolution Directive. A number of discussions have been discussed with SKOKs, cooperative banks. I will remind you, or may I inform you, that the SKOKs were not to be subject to this directive. The decision on this subject, discussed in the Seym, has resulted in many consequences. It was not possible in such a mechanical and simple way to apply the same criteria within this order, which we adopt in this law. Insurance, insurance is a process in which... Yes, you can always buy more security, just the question of whether we can afford it. We, the government, as well as the Members and Senators in the Seym and the Senate, had to answer the question of whether we could afford to protect these institutions. In fact, we want to protect depositors, our fellow citizens, our residents. Talking about how money collected to protect the deposit protection system protects Today as many customers as possible, took the most time, paid the most attention to her. That's very good, that's right. I just want to point out here that for years there has been a dispute, as far as such is concerned, the least strong institutions in terms of capital, such as small cooperative banks and SKOK cash registers. I think we pay too much attention to this because these institutions with indigenous Polish capital Some of them, with the advantage of Polish capital today, should focus more on how to compete for the market with stronger or strongest players, rather than looking for divisions, focusing on what divides them. At a time when the decision was made that the SKOKs were to be supervised, we tried to reach a consensus on the extent to which this request was to be met, so that it would be realistic to carry out. SKOK-i have played a very important role in the Polish market in recent years. Let me remind you that in the cash register there were a dozen, about 14 billion zlotys, they have 2.5 million customers. SKOK-i were such a bridge between a very assertive segment of the banking sector, which had rigid rules of the game, very strict rules of lending money, and the whole unsupervised segment, to which they belonged so-called. Shadow banking institutions, parabanks, and gave citizens in Poland a chance to access capital when their individual, property situation, and in particular the income situation, is about the regularity of their income, which was more difficult than in this segment, which was supported by large financial institutions. We have to remember that. I think it's worth remembering. If we were to look for an analogy in other areas of State action, in other sectors where supporting weaker entities or those that are just building their position and capital has produced good results, I would recall an example of a segment of telecommunications services where the State at a certain point gave tax privileges to one of the entities, and this in the short term led to a drastic reduction in the cost of access to telecommunications products. If you had checked your mobile phone bills on a 10-year basis, you would have noticed that they are not a dozen or a dozen or so percent smaller, but many times smaller, the difference is really serious, precisely because you have directed your actions to improve this situation. To conclude on why the SKOKs found themselves... why certain parameters... why it seems that the SKOKs have certain more favourable conditions, I would like to point out that when it comes to the guaranteed benefit fund, the pace of building this resource is comparable for both cooperative banks, commercial banks and SKOKs. It's worth noticing and it's documented. The question was why it is worth discussing whether the Polish Bank Association should have a representation on the BFG board today. For one reason, in 2013, the International Monetary Fund in its report drew attention to the fact that sitting in this group of representatives of the commercial sector may raise doubts, so now, when giving new powers to the BFG board, it is worth discussing this. This conversation started here in the Senate. Thank you for that. She will surely end with the decision of the High House, the Senate, and then the Sejm. We have every right to discuss this. It is good that such a discussion takes place on the occasion of a change of competence. As regards the possibility of adding a contribution to the cost of obtaining revenue, a very important element of the discussion It is a little bit like that in all countries, and not only in Poland, the state is at the end of the whole process of guaranteeing everything that can be guaranteed, and previously institutions and mechanisms are used to ensure the creation of capital that can be used in a difficult situation. The state, with its citizens' wallet, is always at the end, this is the last. Here we are dealing with such a situation that this would be acceptable, for example, by assuming higher contributions, because there are not too many people today who will show how to increase the revenue of the state budget, while there are many ideas for how to simply collapse it and reduce it. It is worth noting that the very idea of not including this contribution in the cost of obtaining revenue was taken up in the previous term of office during the drafting of this document. This is reality. But you have to talk about it, because the subject is. We would all like these institutions to be lighter and, in the case of this law, this discussion also appeared. But I remind you that when it comes to how to spend money My experience with the Sejm shows this. It's always 995 proposals, and for how to get that money to the budget, it's at most, at this scale, 5 ideas or almost all. So this is a discussion of this kind. And to these elements of the discussion... [[Except it wasn't taxed before.]] ...I wanted to refer. I have such knowledge that in the case of this project we are talking about, and which is ultimately in Senate print No 180, concerning the implementation of these 2 directives, Directives 59 and 49, the project that was prepared in the finance department in the last term of the Sejm, this idea was analyzed and was not accepted, i.e. the previous government did not plan to include a contribution to the BFG in the cost of obtaining revenue. So that I'm precise about it. I have that knowledge; the heads of the departments confirm it, too. But of course the subject is, the amendment is and will be settled. So much for me. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u58	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the end of today. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u59	Messages. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of applications for the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services, Senate printing No 183, will be held immediately after the announcement of a break in Senate sitting in room 176. Another announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of the applications submitted at the 19th Senate meeting to the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring of the Senator's printing no. 180 will take place today 45 minutes after the announcement of the interruption in the plenary session in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u60	We're adjourned until 3:00. After the break, there will be a vote. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 58 to 15 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u61	I'd like to inform you that the Senate's recess will be extended until 4:00 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 00 to 16 minutes 00]] High Izbo, I inform you that I'm extending the recess until 4:30 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 00 to 16 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u62	I'm reopening the session. We return to the first item of the agenda: the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family Affairs, Senior Policy was held at the end of the meeting... [[Voices from the room: Louder.]] Excuse me? [[Voices from the hall: Mr. Marshal, you can't hear. Louder.]] Because you're talking. If you're done talking to me, you'll hear me very well. Can't anybody hear me? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Who? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, that's better.]] The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 183 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I would recommend rejecting the proposal for a law without amendments and voting in favour of the remaining 7 proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? Mr. Senator, as an applicant... No? You don't want to... No. Good. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 1 was in favour, 77 against. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment No 1 seeks to clarify the definition of an employer posting an employee to the territory of the Republic of Poland and the definition of an employer posting an employee from the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 is of a sequencing nature. It seeks to delete the reference to paragraph in the provisions of the Law. Article 4 24. In those provisions, the reference to paragraph is sufficient. Article 3 24, which concerns the statement and its contents. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 3 and 5 should be voted on together. Amendments 3 and 5 are linguistic in nature and aim to use a better wording. It is proposed to replace the terms "elements' and "elements' in those provisions with the terms "obligations' which correspond more to the content of those provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendments 4 and 7 should be voted on together. They aim to achieve consistency in the form in which the State Labour Inspection obtains information from employers and entrepreneurs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 6 is more specific. It is proposed to replace too common the definition of paying taxes and social security contributions by a better wording indicating that they are subject to obligations in this respect. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 6 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. We return to the second agenda: the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 180 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 8 June, the Commission considered the proposals submitted during the debate on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the forced restructuring system and presented the following position to the Senate. The Commission recommends adopting the following amendments: 1 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u66	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that you've applied for Senator Bierecki and Senator Klein. Would you like to speak again? No. Thank you very much. I would remind you that the committee withdrew its proposal, amendment 50 from print number 180 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any volunteers, I don't hear any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to clarify the definition of critical functions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 is an editorial amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 clarifies the definition of a significant entity by indicating how to determine the value of its assets and the relevant euro rate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 empowers the competent minister to specify in the regulation the terms, scope and modalities of trading in cash registers where there is a risk of insolvency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 5, 8 and 47 should be voted on together. Amendment 5 amends the composition of the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund and clarifies that it is chaired by the representative of the Minister responsible, while amendments 8 and 47 cover the consequences of this adjustment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 32 against. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 7 clarifies that the mandates of the members of the Banking Council of the Guarantee Fund expire on the expiry of its term of office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 9 seeks to indicate that a member of the Banking Management Board of the Guarantee Fund should have a proper experience and not an internship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 10 complements the reference and removes unnecessary expression from the point of view of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 11 was accepted. Amendment 12 replaces the indeterminate expression used in the wording of the Act, which refers to the definition of a significant entity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 13 is intended to provide the provision of the Law of Coherence and Terminology Coherence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 14 clarifies the question of how to lodge a complaint against the decision to initiate compulsory restructuring and the calculation of time limits in such cases. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 seeks to correctly determine the manner in which the assessment of the assets and liabilities of the entity subject to forced restructuring is to be challenged. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 16 is terminology-based. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 17 is an editorial amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 18 aims to exclude the possibility of meeting bank guarantee fund liabilities for cash and vice versa from the envelope. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 52 against. [[Voting No 28]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 19 clarifies the content of one of the conditions that must be fulfilled in order for the Bank Guarantee Fund to allocate funds to cover the entity's losses in the restructuring or to extend the entity's share rights in the restructuring. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 20 seeks a precise indication of the period by which the minimum and target level of funds of the deposit guarantee scheme in banks and cash registers is extended. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 20 and 21 are voted on together. They shall modify the content of the guidelines in two statutory mandates in order to give them the advantage of adequacy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 23 seeks to make the wording clear as to the length of time allowed to reach a minimum and target level of funding for the compulsory restructuring of banks and investment firms and cash registers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 24 clarifies the information requirements of the entities covered by the guarantee scheme and introduces the possibility of doing so by electronic means. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 25 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendments 27, 28, 29 and 30 should be followed by... [[Voice from the room: 26 more.]] Oh, there's still Amendment 26. So small, that's why I didn't notice. Good. Amendment 26 corrects incorrect terminology. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendments 27, 28 and 30 seek to identify the reasons for which the Financial Supervision Authority and the Banking Guarantee Fund are to be guided when issuing a decision imposing a penalty. Amendment 29, on the other hand, is terminology-based. And we are voting on all these amendments: Nos 27, 28, 29 and 30. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 31 deletes the regulation which treats contributions to guarantee funds and contributions to compulsory restructuring funds as costs of obtaining revenues under the Corporate Income Tax Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 35 were in favour, 47 against. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 32 corrects in the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and banks associating the definition of the associate bank. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 33 modifies the definition of the managing entity under the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 34 is terminology-based. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 35 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 36 aims to ensure the correct scope of reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 37 corrects the error in the legislative order. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 38 is technical and legislative in nature. Its adoption excludes voting on Amendments 39 and 40. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] So now we are voting on Amendment 41. Amendment 41 aims to remove from the Act the Episcopal Regulations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 36 were in favour, 43 against. [[Voting No 45]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 42 indicates the allocation of funds collected in the funds for the protection of guaranteed funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 46]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 43 aims to use terminology consistent with that used in the Act on the functioning of cooperative banks, their association and the association banks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 44 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 45 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 46 provides the law with terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 48 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 49 clarifies that the mandatory restructuring provisions apply from 1 January 2017 to cooperative savings and settlement banks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, 56 against, 28 against. [[Voting No 52]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 51... there is no amendment 51. [[Voice out of the O.R.: Retreated.]] We're coming... Because that one was withdrawn, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: Now the whole thing.]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 53 votes against, 5 against, 27 abstentions. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Bank Guarantee Fund Act, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public procurement and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 174 and the report of the Commission In print No 174 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on National Economy and Innovation at its meeting on 2 June considered the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and Certain Other Acts; Senate Printing No 174, Seym Printing Nos 366, 489 and 489-A. The meeting was attended by senators and very many guests. We hosted Minister Mariusz Haladyj from the Ministry of Development together with his colleagues, Minister Sławomir Mazurka from the Ministry of Environment, together with his colleagues, but also representatives of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Polish Railway Lines SA. The Public Procurement Office was represented by Vice President Magdalena Grabarczyk. The Supreme Audit Chamber was represented by Director Elżbieta Jarzęcka-Siwik and her colleagues. There were also very many representatives of employers' organisations, local authorities and waste management companies. The Senate was represented by patron Jakub Zabielski. The Act aims at simplifying procedures for the award of public contracts by e.g. reducing formal obligations at the stage of competition, introducing electronic communication between contracting authorities and economic operators and limiting the obligations of economic operators to make a declaration of compliance in the form of a single European procurement document. In addition, the Act introduces the possibility of limiting the application of the lowest price criterion for tenders and introduces an obligation to impose a condition of employment on the basis of a contract of employment in the case of service contracts and works contracts. The bill was discussed by the Minister at the Ministry of Development, Mr Mariusz Haladyj. He presented the advantages of this law, including: strengthening non-price criteria, reducing bureaucratic obligations, strengthening innovation, increasing the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement, cooperation with the Social Dialogue Council, and what was essentially the most controversial, i.e. contracts awarded to subsidiaries, so-called. in-house. This is from an EU directive where the deadline for implementation, I would like to remind you, expired on 18 April. Then the senators spoke. I'd like to say that Senator Komornicki spoke... [[Voice from the room: Komarnicki.]] ...Komarnicki, who spoke about the need to protect Polish capital and the fact that the in-house law excludes the participation of private enterprises and may be a threat to them, including bankruptcy. Senator Pekkis stressed that it is difficult for private investors to compete with local governments, because these companies often have local, central, government funding from other places and privately risk their own capital. Mr. Senator Augustine... I'm sorry, I've got... Senator Augustine mainly meant that we do not need to proceed so quickly, we should consider and approach this law with common sense, perhaps prolonging the time of its process. Very many representatives of local governments and trash companies took the floor. I must make it clear that this voice from local governments was quite clear and clear. All municipalities, associations of cities and municipalities were in favour of the bill, including the in-house law. On the other hand, representatives of the waste industry spoke with different voices, some were in favour of excluding uninhabited areas from the in-house law, some were against it because there are no non-inhabited areas in small municipalities. I just want to explain that the uninhabited areas are so-called. public buildings, which is not typically municipal waste... These are offices, factories, shops, so to leave this part off from the in-house, which is in such a common sense we would leave it to private entrepreneurs. In total, all the amendments, I must tell you, were 118. The amendments were agreed between the legislator and the Ministry of the Environment, represented by Minister Sławomir Mazurka, and the Ministry of Development, represented by Minister Haladyj. All amendments have been accepted, these amendments will be tabled. I would just like to see these Members... It aroused a lot of controversy, all the senators had delegations from those companies that collect, process, recycle waste... I would just like to say that there will be an amendment to the exclusion from the in-house of uninhabited areas, i.e. the possibility for companies which so far operate on the market to collect these waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u68	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u69	Mr. Marshal, thank you. And I will thank the rapporteur if you answer my question and at the same time question the Association of Polish Cities in connection with this bill. Namely the Association of Polish Cities and other representatives of the local government prove that there is a kind of gap here. Well, in-house orders, these orders come in from 1 January. To date, some local authorities have entrusted tasks to their companies or applied the rules of tender. The situation is unclear. And this is the subject of this question. What can be done at this time, whether it is not a gap, whether it is not a state of suspension, or, as others say, it will be possible to apply the current legal situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u70	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer. In my opinion, the law applies. It's been coming in since January 1. [[What about this moment? If this hangs up...]] [[Turn on the mike, please.]] No, we're not suspending anything. Right... [[But there's a gap. Right? There's a gap.]] There is a law that is so far. There's no gap. [[But it doesn't come from that sound. If you can't answer directly...]] I'm sorry, I can't answer the senator's question. [[Good. Thank you very much. I am sending this question to the Minister, who may have been asked to do so. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u71	Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Because it was a government project, as I read it, first proceded in the Seym, which has now reached us, to the Senate, my surprise is the number of amendments - 118, which is about as many as the parties have the bill. It would appear that we have one amendment on each side. What are the implications of these amendments? Why so many amendments? Was this bill underdeveloped and these amendments had to be introduced as a result of the Senate's work? What is the result of such a large number of amendments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u73	Mr. Senator, most of the amendments are clarification amendments, and typical amendments that change the shape of the bill or introduce something, in my opinion there are a few. This may have been affected by earlier legislative negligence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u74	Senator Wind, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u75	Mr. Senator, I have two questions about the same matter. Indeed, in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 in Article. 12 we read that a public contract awarded by a contracting authority to a person governed by private or public law does not fall within the scope of this Directive if certain conditions are met. This has been amended in our law and the same cases which are recommended in the directive for not including the scope of the law are covered by the law as free-of-hand contracts. This is a completely different category. My question is, what is the point of this change? The second question is that in the mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12 of the same Directive is restricted to activities which may be outside the scope of that law if contracting authorities perform less than 20% on the open market activities which are subject to cooperation. It's limited to 10% in our bill. We know that for several years there have been huge complaints or protests from different backgrounds that we are overly limiting all these thresholds. Here is another such example of limitation. What is the result of the change in the value of these thresholds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u76	Thank you, Senator. Valuable questions. There were no such questions at the committee meeting, which is why I cannot answer. I would very much ask the Minister to answer such questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u77	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I had 12 questions, but the rapporteur, the president, allowed for quite a broad discussion, so there was a whole range of questions and explanations at our committee meeting. Therefore, I will limit myself to only four questions. These questions are not addressed to the rapporteur, but rather to the Minister. Let me ask you these four questions. The first question: how will the ongoing changes affect the functioning of small and medium-sized, mainly family-owned waste management companies? The second question: do the current rulers, often preaching the slogans of economic patriotism, understand them as increasing the freedom of economic activity of local governments at the expense of, of course, small and medium-sized domestic entrepreneurs? The third question is whether a critical analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office and the position of the social side, i.e. employers, members of the Social Dialogue Council, in relation to the changes under review, is there any significance to the authors of these changes, or is it only important to promise to local governments that, with the agreement of the legislator, they will be able to monopolise the market? And the fourth question: what offer for small and medium-sized enterprises, which, in this situation, after the adoption of this law, threatens to fall, has a government to counter it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u79	Thank you very much. I would very much ask the Minister to answer Mr. Komarnicki's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u80	Senator Augustine. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u81	Mr President, you mentioned that there would be a complex amendment that would relate to the services provided in the field of waste management. But, as we know, this law introduces an in-house order mode, i.e. a choice not entirely of any kind, but in non-negotiable mode, free of charge, about everyone... about the huge range of tasks undertaken by local governments. In the view of the senators, is this really not a threat of monopolization, price increases, quality reductions and, unfortunately, the collapse of many companies not only in the waste management industry?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u82	Mr. Senator, I share your doubts. It's a tough bill. There was also a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject. It is difficult to answer this question clearly. We are looking for an option that will, on the one hand, allow the implementation of the EU directive in our country, and on the other hand... Well, we're not gonna fire the baby with the bath, and that's why this amendment is so that the companies that have been involved in waste treatment can continue to function. I share these concerns, I don't know how it's gonna work. The most active were the representatives of the waste collection companies, but I agree with you that this does not apply only to this segment of the market, but, of course, to a very broad... I was surprised, too, that there were no representatives from other industries; in fact, there was no position on the part of companies from other industries. There was only one position from PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I wanted to welcome Minister Mariusz Haladyj. Hello, sir. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: I think I will answer the questions immediately...]] I'm sure I'll ask you to answer my questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: I will not speak now.]] If not, we're moving on to the next stage. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. Come on in, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u84	Minister, the first question is a little in the spirit of what you asked Senator Wind. Namely, indeed, the directives which are to be implemented by the laws only talk about this optionally, they talk about possible regulation concerning in-house ordering mode. Why did the government decide, even though a major amendment of the Public Procurement Act is being prepared, to introduce this solution now? That's the first question. Question two. Do you have any data that would indicate what part of the private market is involved in the amendment mentioned here by the senator, Mr Andrzej Stanisławek, regarding the procurement procedure of non-communal waste companies? I ask because, as far as I know, this will not improve the situation of a very large group of private companies, which are already engaged in the municipal waste market today. The third question is this. Do you share your concern that in other areas there will also be a temptation to set up municipal companies which, under this law, will actually be able to rally private entrepreneurs from the various areas of municipal services that may be affected by this law? Aren't you afraid that inter-communal companies will do this on a much wider scale than only in one municipality?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u85	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Why is there in-house in the amendment? Making a new law is certainly not a matter of time. We want to approach this in such a way that we do not so much pass on to the consultation a ready draft law or assumptions, but start a discussion with the environment of both contractors and contracting authorities about how in general, on which foundations is a new law or even a new system based. Therefore, we would not want to act under some time pressure to create a new project. The decision not to implement in-house would also be a serious decision, because then it would be possible, even from a legal point of view, to wonder whether... Let's see: today's legal status at the level of the directives is that in-house is not regulated, and therefore it is on the basis of the case law of the European Court of Justice, first, that our NSA also developed a practice of awarding such orders. Now that the new directive, so-called. classic, regulates in-house orders, lack of implementation could perhaps be read as a general ban on in-house use in the country. Therefore, this would also be a very serious substantive decision. The fact that in-house is functioning today is a fact, functioning on the basis, as I said, above all case law. This would raise the question of what to do with these entities, with those resources that have already been created by local governments. Therefore, we have adopted the in-house regulation in such a way that I will say it on a daily basis. Put certain restrictions or fuses into the system of application of these provisions so that in-house is not, in practice, abused. Hence the tightenings, which were also asked by the senator, which means that we do not leave, as the directive allows, in-house outside the system, only we have this as a free-hand order. The point is to make it more transparent, because leaving it outside the procurement system would mean that control of this type of action, solutions, would be much more difficult. On the other hand, if this remains in the order system, the transparency of such orders will be maintained. That's 80%, that's 90%. that the senator has asked for is the restriction resulting from the assumed assumption that if an entity benefits from an in-house privilege, that is what you must call it. At least on an open market where there is competition with private companies, the activity of such an entity should be strongly limited. So if I get an in-house privilege, then the open market leaves private competition. There is also a ban on the participation of private capital Also so that there's no circumvention... As for moving the vacathio legis and what will happen until then, there was also a question here... Well, until then, we're just applying the rules that are in force, i.e. above all, local government regulations. Three solutions have been introduced in the Sejm to counter abuse of in-house, namely the requirement for the company to perform key parts of the contract in in-house, not to commission these tasks to the next chain of intermediaries, or to terminate contracts from the vending machine, by law, if such a company were to become e.g. privatized. And the shift of vacathio legis is designed to better prepare for new conditions. The Commission supported two further amendments, namely, firstly, the obligation to provide information on the intention to award an in-house contract both before and after the award, in order to increase transparency and social control. Secondly, a formal review of the contracting authority has been introduced if there are doubts as to the correct application of this procedure. I may answer that question for a long time, but here was a de facto attempt to compromise. There were two strongly divergent positions of the partners: on the one hand, local governments wanted a faithful mapping of European regulations, and on the other hand the business community, the Social Dialogue Council was strongly opposed to the in-house solution. Well, those positions were very decisive. We tried to find a compromise in this field during the project process, which is very small, to implement solutions that would be optimal under Polish conditions. I don't know if it worked, you'll be the judge of that. All I'm saying is there's no country that doesn't have an in-house solution. This is also another argument we've decided to... Let us remember that every contracting authority is responsible for the management of public funds, so let us not look at in-house as entrusting, so to speak, a public penny without any restrictions, control or limitation. The system of public spending, of course, in-house, is part of this, is responsible for the management of public funds, and under this responsibility, the use of in-house will also be assessed. As for uninhabited properties, what you asked the senator, is from our estimates made so quickly that I will say so, because this is a new proposal It appears that this could be about 30% of the market. As far as the other sectors are concerned... Well, it's a little connected to the first question, because why is it... Why is the most attention and emotion in terms of waste management? As I said, in-house as a legal solution today operates in various areas, including waste management, e.g. in processing, only on the basis of case law, not tough rules. The obligation to tender shall be only in the case of receipt. And here is the only provision in the law system, which, apart from contracts, is a tendering obligation for waste management. This change is the most significant and therefore there are probably more of these comments. In the public consultation process on other sectors there were no comments, I do not know, so hot or so significant. The IT sector was raising concerns, but we didn't have any other such strong comments. There was the voice of the RDS... To answer the question, I would like to say that we have considered the opinion of the RDS. And that's why these restrictions I've been talking about have been introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u87	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Wind's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This will be a repetition of the questions I have asked the rapporteur, so that the Minister is probably prepared by now. However, I would like to expand it a bit in view of what has already been said. We must be aware that the Public Procurement Act concerns very different entities and very different situations. There was an example of local governments, waste management. We know that the range of implications of this recording is much, much wider. I would like to ask again why this provision of the Directive has been amended. It is about removing these cases, I would say, from the scope of this law and handing over orders to a group of free-handers. And the second question is why it's limited, it's changed from 20% to 10%. ? I'm just surprised that the EU records... Well, it would appear that there is a weaker economy in Europe, so it is less protesting. Our economy has protested more strongly, and 20% have become 10%. I don't know if those were the indications that the other entities weren't actually active... I represent universities and I must say that these thresholds, which in Poland are much lower than in Germany, cause us to be delayed. In Poland, it takes 2 years to purchase equipment for the university, while in Western Europe it lasts 3 months. These are serious burdens and in the context of Mr Morawiecki's programme... For scientific entities to participate in this process, it makes it very difficult, and for a while it makes it impossible to function. That's why I repeat these two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u89	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u90	I was at least partially trying to answer them earlier. The principle of free hand, the exclusion of this relationship from the procurement system in general affects the transparency of these orders, not the limitation of time or other matters. It is precisely about increasing transparency that we do not leave these orders outside the system, which is primarily based on the principle of transparency. 80% or 90%... Let us remember that the shape of the directive is a result of discussions, discussions and positions of different countries. In the case of in-house, the Directive constitutes a certain maximum to which countries may come, so to speak, excluding from contracts, in particular competitive modes, certain segments or specific contracts. And within this maximum, all countries can move, creating their own regulations. We decided that when we formally introduce in-house into the rules, it was worth it during this period. Also in order to be able to assess the functioning of in-houses later To the smallest extent interfere with the market. And I also respond here to concerns that were formulated by the Council of Social Dialogue, for example, to the principle that contracting entities can create their own subordinate entities that will perform in-house orders. But such entities should then compete in a very limited way in the open market. Of course, they can participate in the open market, but if they want to receive such orders, they stand in competition modes, as part of orders... And it doesn't seem like a radical change from 80% to 90%. [[100%.]] Well, we didn't go to 100%. Uh, yeah, I mean... [[10% and 10%... can I still do it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u91	You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u92	I understand it in such a way that changing these thresholds from 20% to 10% ...if we take the base of 10% , this is the addition of 100%. But it's like it fits... Because the directive says no less than that. In turn, in the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Directive is provided for: it does not fall within the scope of this Directive. Therefore, the question arises as to whether the free-hand provision is compatible with this directive, because it is already a completely different quality phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u93	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u94	This provision is in line with the fact that the Procurement Directive... We must also look at the procurement directive through the objective pursued by it, and in this context. The main principle of the Procurement Directive is to allow competitive access to public funds. Therefore, the exemptions or opportunities offered by the Directive to countries, the exclusion of certain issues from this main principle, represent a maximum for national legislators, which countries cannot exceed. So, for example, we could not, as Poland, introduce not 90%, but 7.0%. And a free hand serves... As I said, we are acting, we can say, within the framework of compliance with the European Directive, because we are moving within the maximum. So a free hand is a solution that goes not as far as disabling orders. We are in a position to say, in the main objective of the directive, and at the same time, as I said, we allow full transparency in public spending as part of this solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u95	Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u96	Minister, I am trying to understand the directive and to listen to what you say. But if the directive refers to the fact that some cases are taken out, so to speak, from the Public Procurement Act and you include them in the Public Procurement Act, I see here a legal dissonance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u98	As I said, there is no dissonance because the directive must be read in its entirety and from the point of view of the purpose it pursues. If my words are not convincing, then I can only say that the Foreign Minister has assessed the project as compatible with the directive in terms of a free hand solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u99	Senator Wojtyła, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like you to put forward the Government's position on the proposal presented here, which allows the receipt of waste from individual residents by a municipal company and obliges it to tender for the remaining waste. There may be a situation in the municipality that there will be a municipal company that deals with other matters, e.g. the discharge of waste water, water supply and, at the same time, the tender for the collection of waste, apart from individual, will be won by another company. What is the situation then? Can this company serve individual customers? Because the municipal company is in the municipality for other purposes. They're reporting to me with this problem of self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u101	Yes, but let's see that today, in the case of some cities, especially larger cities, it is not so that one company embraces. I apologize for this colloquialism. The whole city. In some cities, especially in large cities, there are several performers. So here's the problem that shouldn't be. And then in one segment it will work, for example. a municipal company, as in this example, which you give to the senator, and if a tender for the operation of uninhabited properties would be won by a private company, this segment would serve, if the tender was won, this private company. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u102	Do you still want to ask the senator? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u103	I'm talking about individual... Is it possible then that this waste... means these properties so-called uninhabited service of this company, which will win the tender also for the service of individual customers, i.e. individual residents?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u104	No, that's when the division takes place, the division of tasks, i.e. from residential property waste receives e.g. a municipal company, and in uninhabited properties this job is done by a company that wins the tender. That's how I understand this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u105	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u106	Yeah, but then this municipal company, which's called to supply water, to drain the sewage, will have to buy equipment to handle these kind of individual residents and pick up garbage from them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u107	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u108	Then this communal company... If it works as it does it has 100% The market, she must also have her car, some equipment to pick up and transport to the waste plants... And she too, especially since there's a restriction on subcontracting, she's gonna have to meet, but she's just gonna have to... The effect of this amendment would be that a narrower range of markets would be available to this company. [[The municipality doesn't have to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u109	Minister, the point is that small municipalities that don't have waste disposal equipment The municipal companies there serve other purposes, fear that they will have to buy equipment because of these individual customers... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Aha, okay.]] And that's why I want an explanation. I want an explanation like that that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u110	Maybe I didn't understand the senator's question. But now, as far as I understand it, I can say that in-house is not an obligation for the commune. In-house is optional. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] So if the municipality does not want to carry out its own resources in the context of waste management, it may then issue an invitation to tender for the service and property of residents and uninhabited, and it does not have to create a company for it at all. [[That's what I'm talking about. Thank you very much, Minister. That's the kind of doubt the local authorities have about my office. And that explanation-- I think that explains it.]] Okay. So it's an opportunity, not an obligation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u111	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rulewski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u112	Thank you, Minister, for your kindness and for giving a brief reply, in which you stressed the words, in my opinion. And because the issue of this gap, and so it is not known what kind of gap... means the gaps between the entry into force of the Act until 1 January will certainly include many local governments who are currently using orders for their entities or tenders, which include not only garbage cases, but also others, my request. But I think the point of convenience is that the Minister will answer in writing. Okay? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Yes, of course.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u113	Good. The Minister has committed himself to answering the question in writing. And now you ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u114	Minister, I would like to ask you about the changes contained in point 8. Why do you propose that, let's call it a social clause allowing special treatment of non-governmental organisations and social cooperatives, apply only to those works which are exempt from the law, in the fields of works carrying out a revitalization project, carried out in special revitalization zones? That's the first question. Second question. Does this provision mean that existing social clauses giving preference to social cooperatives, especially those created by local governments, will cease to apply? And the third question. As far as I'm concerned. I think we all understand that. The fact that there are areas that must be excluded from the Public Procurement Act relating to certain works of art, cultural events, where there are completely different types of things, unverifiable, incomparable, which the State is listed here and, if we understand that military and security services must also be excluded in certain areas, must be surprising to what you have written in point 8 (6) that forestry services, in certain large areas, are excluded from the Public Procurement Law. This looks like some sort of departmental thing. I'm sorry. . lobbying and so-called. I see no reason why forest works should be excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u115	That's the three questions. Yes, Senator? [[Yes.]] Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u116	Thank you. With regard to revitalization, this is the consequence of the changes concerning revitalization that were adopted in the previous term of office. If the senator would allow us to answer this question in more detail tomorrow at the committee meeting, because I admit that at this point in time, as far as the details are concerned, I do not feel able to answer, and I do not wish to mislead or to respond in general. As far as social clauses and social cooperatives are concerned, this is primarily the transposition of the directive in this respect. But also in detail, if the senator will allow it, perhaps tomorrow at the committee meeting we will complete this reply. [[This, however, is a very important matter.]] We have raised this issue in part at the committee meeting. Tomorrow we will complete this answer. As far as forest services are concerned, this is a change that has already been adopted in the Sejm and it concerns the possibility of responding in situations, so to speak, emergency, for example. in a situation of some misfortune that happens in the woods, when the forest services need to react quickly. First of all, this is obviously a sublime... Secondly, the deputy minister of the environment present at the committee's meeting estimated that this might concern, I don't know, 23%. This is how he assessed the possibility of applying this today... the possibility of using these rules. But the goal is simply to be able to react in an emergency so that we can react quickly in an emergency. But here too, if the senator will permit, we can still complete this reply tomorrow at the committee meeting, as I will find my notes from the session of the Parliamentary Committee when it was further justified. But that was the main goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u117	Do you still want to ask the senator? [[No. Thank you.]] Tomorrow at the committee meeting, okay. Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Piotr Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'll go back to the issue of municipal waste. Because as far as big cities are concerned, as you said, Minister, there's a lot of competition, there's usually a lot of companies out there, because one company can't cover the entire area of a big city. In contrast, it looks different in small towns. I understand that this is the task of self-government and self-government will be interested in doing well with this task. But the important thing is that they'll probably create And that's what we're gonna expect. The companies to which they will commission these tasks. And my question is, isn't there some concern that this will result in an increase in the price of municipal waste collection? However, as there is no market and there is no full competition and control That's what happened in big cities. We remember what it looked like at the beginning. It's hard. I also understand that when it comes to these uninhabited areas, if a company wins and is not used in-house in a given municipality, then the same company can both, in terms of waste... She can accept tasks concerning the collection of municipal waste both within the city and outside the city if it does not apply in-house. Am I getting this right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u119	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u120	Well, in my opinion, yes, because if a given local authority doesn't want to benefit from the in-house exception, then there are no obstacles. In the event of adoption of this amendment, In order to announce the municipality e.g. tender for the whole, i.e. for both residential and uninhabited properties. When it comes to these concerns, I'd be lying if I said that we're being carefree about the subject. That is why there are these restrictions which I have said are aggravating, in relation to the directive, the regime and the possibility of applying these provisions. As far as prices and specifically the waste management sector are concerned, these are interesting data collected by the Ministry in some 1,800 municipalities, which show that the prices used by municipal companies were on average lower than those used by the companies which won the tenders.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, in a moment, because Senator Florek wants to ask, right? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u122	If I may, I'll ask. Now that the Minister has told us about these 1,800 municipalities that this is how these prices looked, can you tell us the proportion, what it looked like? Let's say that their in-house is already being used, because we can say that to those who have commissioned their companies. So far the percentage in these 1800 municipalities? What were the proportions, how many were made by their own companies, and how many were made by companies selected in a competitive tender?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u123	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u124	I don't know if I understood the question correctly. In general, the criterion was whether the waste collector was a municipal or a private entity. And like that... In the case of municipal companies... The Ministry of the Environment collected data which seemed to indicate an average of 8 PLN, and as far as communal municipalities are concerned, it was probably about 7 PLN. As far as proportions are concerned, these proportions seem to be... In terms of how many private companies are carrying out orders today in the waste market and how many are public, the proportion of private companies to the municipal is 64:36, it seems, that is, the advantage of private companies. And this may also be interesting information. Before the introduction of this provision, these proportions were not drastically different, because then it was probably 60:40, so these are not big differences. This provision, which was introduced in 2011 and entered into force in 2012, did not result in any drastic changes in the proportion of municipal companies to private companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u125	Thank you very much. And Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u126	Minister, I have a question about the 40th shift. We all welcomed these changes in the Public Procurement Act, which gave the contracting authorities the opportunity to require employment for a contract of employment. The idea was to limit the possibility of using garbage contracts. In the meantime, you're tampering with it a little bit, so to speak. And I'm surprised you're making that kind of mouth. 3a which states that the contracting authority shall specify in the description of the subject-matter of the contract for services or works the requirements of employment by the contractor or subcontractor under the contract of employment of persons performing the activities indicated by the contracting authority. This wording, as indicated by the contracting authority, must raise doubts. Because that's, first of all, corruption, because here we can get along, what we're going to point out and what we're not going to point out. and secondly, the restrictive, i.e. already suggesting that it can be as upset as the customer fits, and in the subtext Also to the person who may possibly benefit from the win. That is why I would like to know what the intention is for such a record.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u127	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u128	These 3 words, which Mr Senator has raised, are not an option for the contracting authority to determine any activity, because the same decimal rule states that... In the same decimal provision are the words: if the performance of these activities is carried out by the disposition of §22 or by Article. 22, the labor code. Thus, it is the obligation of the contracting authority to indicate, as part of the description of the subject-matter of the contract, the activities in respect of which these requirements comply with the provisions of the Labour Code. And now: why was it left... [[The chosen ones. It's about the chosen...]] No, designated by the Contracting Authority. [[The indicated ones, that is, the chosen ones.]] The indicated ones. So he's required to indicate these actions. And now: why is this introduced? Because it was also the subject of our long discussions with the Social Dialogue Council. What's the fear if these three words weren't there? The fact that... every lawyer knows perfectly well that if there are certain requirements for a lawsuit, then later there are certain formulas that are simply applied, de facto pasted, in every lawsuit. And we were afraid that if the rule simply requires contractors to have an obligation, if the Labour Code so provides, whether, in those cases where it corresponds to the Labour Code, to employ on employment contracts, the contracting authority will apply this provision in such a way that it will be simply a formula multiplied in all proceedings: where the Labour Code requires employment for employment contracts, the contracting authority should employ for employment contracts. And that, it seems, would unfortunately be easy to circumvent this rule. We even after the Sejm has finished our work Because the Social Dialogue Council also had doubts about this issue, we did another working meeting with the Social Dialogue Council or rather with representatives of the Social Dialogue Council, and we assessed at this meeting that this provision was more so... This provision increases, so to speak, the chances of achieving this goal that we have set ourselves, i.e. that the right to work in orders should not be respected. And that's what this instrument is for, or even the obligation imposed on the contracting authority, so that it points out these actions, so as not to create, so to speak, the facades of this obligation in the opposite case. So that we ourselves will practice the application of this provision to observe, because today the current rule theoretically also had to fulfil these obligations... That is, the contracting authority may require, only, unfortunately, that it seems that in 3% of the obligation was enforced or required by the contracting authorities. And that is why this provision is so that it is no longer an optional request for the contracting authority, only mandatory, and strengthening in this clarification is so that the contracting authority does not escape into such general formulas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u129	You still want to ask the senator. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u130	I just want to say that this is not a happy formulation, because I'm sure the Minister will agree with the thesis that if any things are appropriate, they are also inappropriate. So they'll still be chosen, anyway. [[And when they're chosen, they're unselected. Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u131	Thank you. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Rulewski. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Komarnicki came forward for the discussion. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u132	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! The environment as a national heritage should be protected in accordance with the principle of sustainable development, which means that the protection of the environment, including waste management, should be above the partition divisions. The economic development of individual regions, the increasing consumption of local communities, the irreversible effects of environmental degradation resulting from the exploitation of natural resources caused a different view of waste. In the highly developed countries of our continent waste is already considered a potential source of raw materials for the production of new products. We live on the European continent and we belong to a community that wants to create decent living conditions for the next generations and to make our continent independent in terms of raw materials by recycling waste. This is the idea for the founding countries of the European Community, which have noticed the waste problem much earlier and have introduced a recycling obligation in addition to landfilling and incineration of waste. In the countries of the European Economic Community, recycling systems have been set up with respect for economics and ecology and in accordance with the commonly accepted principle of "polluter pays." The established packaging waste management system charged the consumer with the costs of selective collection, sorting and recycling. The creation of such a system is included in the proposal for a circular economy presented by the European Commission in the revision of Directive 98/2008. Dear Senators, today we are faced with the Public Procurement Act. Unfortunately, it is important to be clear that both the way and the time in which the bill was being processed were not, to put it mildly, the best. And yet, as we are all here in this room, we know how important this is. The public procurement law introduced in the law is another prosthesis of a limping waste management system created by the Department of Waste Management in the Ministry of the Environment. The proposed system is based on a flat-rate fee which does not take into account the amount of waste generated and will therefore be contrary to European Union legislation and, as you know, the failure to implement European Union legislation could result in criminal sanctions. The proposed flat-rate scheme involves average waste generation This is said by experts who know about this system, and this is repeated in various reports. Referring to statistics based on outdated waste accumulation rates, a myth with an average mass of generated waste was created. This myth is also repeated in the national waste management plan. These data were also based on voivodship waste management plans, and on the basis of reports and waste management plans, the need to build installations, including installations for thermal treatment of waste was identified. The garbage revolution was supposed to seal the system, which is also to increase the amount of waste that goes into the plant. However, the truth, Dear Senators, has turned out to be completely different. Garbage is less than assumed, installations may have downtime, and this means not to obtain an ecological effect and possible reimbursement of subsidies from POIiŚ funds. Dear Senators, in nature nothing is lost, at best owners change, and so is waste. Some municipalities have announced a lump sum tender in order to reduce the embarrassing work of their neighbour's garbage control. What does that mean? And the statistics are bowing again. This means that, according to them, the inhabitants of a given municipality produce the calculated amount of waste for which the municipality has to pay. The second municipality has announced a tender and pays for the amount of waste it receives, which is the more it shows the waste it receives, the bigger the bill will be. The mass of waste generated is the same, but the distribution of waste is surprisingly different. One municipality produces an average of 80 kg and another 200 kg per capita for a year. Of course, everything is based on a statistical average. The desire to seal the system, so often declared by various specialists, will be reduced to restrict access to information about the waste received, statistical quantities of waste generated, adjusted to the installation, and actual mass after processing will be reported. Dear Senators, such a scenario is possible after the introduction of an in-house institution, of which local governments and municipal companies defend with their hands and legs. The introduction of this provision into the law of public procurement without public consultation and without an assessment of the financial implications for the state budget is simply unfounded. Dear Senators, the bill cannot conflict entrepreneurs with local governments and vice versa, and this situation, unfortunately, has occurred. This was still the case at the stage of the bill. Let us be aware that the provisions of this amended law, which gives the possibility for municipal companies to take over their waste collection and management orders without interruption, will cause hundreds of private Polish companies to suffer. It cannot be equal and equal to the law. Everyone should have the same odds, and the best should win. It's a basic principle in business. I know because I've been an entrepreneur for years. These changes will cause private Polish companies to disappear from the market. What happens to fired workers then? Who's gonna give them the job? The proposed amendment raises many doubts, it is simply wrong. This is not only mentioned by politicians, but above all by entrepreneurs in the waste management industry. With this in mind, I ask the honourable senators to consider the possibility of introducing this provision on the in-house institution at a later date, thereby enabling the government side to carry out a thorough analysis of the effects of the provision and to change the current flat-rate system to a system that complies with the principle that it is the polluter who pays. We owe it to Polish entrepreneurs. And to conclude, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Stanisławek, who made it possible for people who really know and feel this way to speak at this committee meeting. I ask for such sensitivity of those who are the creators of this prosthetic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This law is extremely important not only because we are obliged to implement EU directives, but also because with the help of regulations and directives we are to uphold an equal, competitive European market. This is one of the pillars, one of the foundations of the European Union. We can argue about how far political integration should go in the European Union, but there is no doubt that it is a great benefit and advantage of the European Union when it comes to creating a single market. In Poland, this market, which is to be open, is to be available, is over PLN 333 billion from public procurement. And it seems that all kinds of exemptions should be kept absolutely to a minimum. However, it is surprising that after a very long period of work on the implementation of the directives themselves, although there is no such categoric obligation, we are trying to introduce these in-house restrictions into the law. Although slightly different, in a way, so that they are free-handed orders, but, as we know, the choice of a free-hand tenderer is an uncompetitive procedure. Therefore, great caution is required here. I think that's the thought that's missing in this case. It's a shame the Ministry couldn't convince us not to go out with it. Absolutely, the argument made here by the Minister, that then there would be a threat that someone would presume that in Poland we are banning in-house procedures, is not appropriate to the situation, because it would not be so. The most controversial issues concerning this procedure were waste management issues. It is almost PLN 3.5 billion, a market where municipal operators, municipal companies, manage 40% , and the private sector 60% , about half domestic, half foreign. This market, as we said at the committee meeting, has already been relatively divided over the years, so to speak. He's functioning. Now it is highly likely that these processes which have increased the competitive market will be hindered or even reversed, that the uncompetitive market will increase. I'm a self-government officer, I've been a self-government officer for many years. Minister, the influence of councillors and municipalities on the functioning of municipal companies is really limited. Even knowledge that can be gained is limited. It seems that there ♪ I remember ♪ It's a good job for a self-governmentman. It's either that part of the knowledge we can't get, because the company's covering up trade secrets and says, if anything, it might see the review committee... We don't have an insight. Unfortunately, there are very often cases of nepotism, to fill commercial companies with people close to the government, mainly executive authorities in the municipality. And it's not necessarily ruled by economic rules. Sometimes it really results in lower prices, but let's ask: for comparable quality? Sometimes it's at the expense of investment, because it's politics because elections are coming up. In short, the lack of economic rules is not an advantage. And not always a low or low price is an advantage. Best if what is an advantage, i.e. a low price, good quality, is to be obtained in a competitive market rather than uncompetitive. This is a field that often these two values, which we should consider simultaneously, makes it competitive towards each other and not outside. I'm not talking about nepotism anymore, corruption opportunities, etc. What raises doubts is that these in-house orders can actually be unlimited. So one day you're gonna order a company, and it's actually the order that's gonna apply. There are even more doubts that I have tried to highlight in my questions. However, if the government is not willing to withdraw from in-house records, everything must be done in order to increase the requirements in this area as far as possible. And that is why the fundamental chops of the amendments I would like to make relate to the conditions that should be placed on behalf of municipal companies if they were to receive these orders. Because, of course, the Minister is right that we don't impose an in-house procedure on anyone here, that the municipality can choose the procedure, but if it chooses, it's important that some possible pathologists... make it 100%. it was not possible to suborder and various kinds, so to speak, to conspire, to avoid certain limitations. The point is that the conditions are clear and that the information about the free-of-hand procedure is as broad as possible. Therefore, Minister, I call for these amendments to be taken into account. There is one thing I can assure you of: they are not in any way contrary to the intentions of this law, they do not block its main message in any way, but merely aim to make it better. Because, as a general rule, the implementation of these directives is a necessity and we should do so. As soon as possible. I ask the High House and the Minister to consider the amendments that I am submitting to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank my fellow senators very much for these speeches and for their concern about the correctness of this law. This is a very difficult bill. Well, we need to know one thing: the EU directives apply to all the countries of the European Union that are developing in different ways and on the basis of a different understanding of democracy and public services. In my opinion, we are trying to take into account the interests of all parties: public interests, private interests and political interests. Because governance is decision-making, we make that decision, of course, trying to meet the expectations of all parties, but mostly trying to make sure that we, society, live better and that the prices of refuse go up. Therefore, I submit amendments to your marshal's hands. With the idea that we improve the quality of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u137	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Krystian Probier. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much ask for a common sense approach to the subject under consideration today. Well, it must certainly be said that this law that we are debating will not result in any increase in the mass of waste or loss of that mass. There will be work for the same or similar number of employees. Of course, this can be presented differently in companies or in particular districts, regions. I would also ask you to take advantage of the experience of self-government and the senses of self-government. They're also chosen. Once they make the wrong decisions, they'll be settled in the next election. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Margaret Budner and a group of senators have tabled their amendments. You also submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mariusz Haladyj: Thank you very much.]] No? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Labour Code. The text of the Act is contained in print 169 and the Commission's reports In prints No 169 A and 169 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. [[Senator, there it is.]] You're a senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law concerns the amendment of the Labour Code in so far as it concerns the confirmation of the employment contract, which should in principle be concluded in writing. In the current state of law, there is one exception which states that, if such an agreement is not concluded in writing, the employer should at the latest confirm the employee's written findings regarding the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its terms and conditions. The amendment is that an earlier commitment is made to confirm these findings if the agreement has not been concluded in writing despite such a formal obligation. Earlier on, that... the employer should confirm this not as before, which is at the latest on the day the employee starts working, only before the employee is admitted to work. It should then confirm in writing the arrangements with regard to the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its terms and conditions. The Commission has decided to adopt this law without amendment. All this legislation is going to make the protection of employees' rights more real. The practice of applying this provision so far indicated that the employer, who was dishonest and did not enter into a contract of employment, did not confirm in writing, even at the time when the worker started working, those basic arrangements which were applicable to the contract of employment. In the case of an inspection carried out by an inspection of work, he explained that he had a duty to give such confirmation on the day the employee starts working, and since it is now, let's give it 10.00 a.m. and the employee works until 2:00 p.m. or 3:00 p.m., he still has time to deliver such confirmation. Move, I would say, the moment of fulfilling this obligation, the employer is to do so before the employee is admitted to work. It shall secure the rights of the employee. In this connection, this law deserves approval and, as I said, it was adopted by the committee without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alexander Schwed, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the joint committee meeting. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, which worked on 2 June 2016 to amend the Labour Code. The amendment introduced, as the rapporteur from the Legislative Commission has already said, is intended to introduce the obligation of the employer to confirm in writing, before the employee is admitted to work, the findings of the employment contract in writing. To this end, we change the wording of the article. 29 §2, replacing the second sentence, which so far provided for the obligation to confirm the employment contract in writing at the latest on the day the worker started working, which contributed to the so-called. first-day syndrome, which is the prevalence of a practice of delaying the signing of a contract and, in fact, hiring illegally without having to bear the consequences... In the proposed wording, Article. The second sentence of paragraph 2 of the Labour Code was clarified by introducing an obligation for the employer to confirm the contract concluded before the employee was admitted to work. The consequence of this provision is the amendment of the Article. Point 281 (2) containing a sanction for an employer who fails to comply with the said obligation as well as Article. 104 and Article 104 200, where, instead of the previous definition, before starting work, we introduce a definition of before admission to work. The proposed amendments are to enter into force on 1 September 2016. The project is a government submission. At the meeting of the joint committees, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy was represented by Deputy Minister Stanisław Szwed, who in his speech stressed that the proposed change, which was very positive for employees, was intended to reduce the syndrome of the first day's work, i.e. illegal employment of workers without a written employment contract. From the date of entry into force of the proposed amendment, each employee will have to have a written employment contract, undergo health and safety training and undergo medical examinations before entering into service. The proposed proposals were adopted by the Sejm at its 18th meeting and 413 Members voted in favour of the proposed amendments, 2 against and 1 abstention. Opinion of the Senate Legislative Office to the Law on the amendment of the Law The Social Dialogue Council also welcomed the proposed changes. The joint committees, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have unanimously adopted the proposed amendments and I also recommend that the High House adopt the proposed amendment as it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u143	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I know you want to ask Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome, Senator. Which of the senators of the rapporteurs are you asking the question to?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal, perhaps to Mr. Silence, to the first rapporteur. I have a question, but first I would like to say that what seems normal, that the employment contract should be concluded before the beginning of work, that the research should be done before the beginning of work, that the employee's work regulations should know before the beginning of work, what seems normal to us... I was also an employer at one time, and I can say that it was strange that there were opportunities to allow the employee to work, who does not have a signed contract for a given working day. God forbid, something would happen, and then, of course, the problem arises. Such cases occurred, there were those who abused those laws. I think it's a good thing that this regulation is unambiguous, 100% determines that this is unacceptable. I have a question about possible penalties that are specified here. I have a point 7 in my article. 281 and here it is written that a fine of between PLN 1 000 and PLN 30,000 is to be fined. It is a very large spread, from PLN 1 000 to PLN 30,000. Now it's a matter of what kind of punishment that's gonna be. The forks are very big. I understand that 1 000 PLN for a dishonest entrepreneur can still be worth taking risks: at best I will pay, and somehow I will employ illegally. I understand that this fine punishment will only be shaped in the future, but I would like to ask whether there was a discussion about it or if he said something about it, I do not know, Minister, what it would look like. I understand that this provision establishing a penalty of between 1 000 and 30,000 has already been made, but the penalty for an employer who does not confirm the contract has now been added. Can we assess what more or less the penalty would be for breaking this rule?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u145	Mr Senator, when it comes to penalties, there was no such question at the joint committee meeting, so that I think that the Minister will be able to provide some more detailed information on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u146	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u147	Mr. Senator, this bill, and rightly so, is designed to prevent pathologies from hiring workers, often also We're aware of that. Foreign workers who are employed under appropriate conditions. It's said to happen a lot. Have there been any estimates, any data on the extent of such abuse?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u148	As far as the scale is concerned, no analyses were presented, as there was no question of analysis at the joint committee meeting. There was only a consultation, I was talking about the Social Dialogue Council, about the fact that the workers' side and the employers' side agreed on the proposed changes and welcomed them, including positive ones. until the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. the date of 1 September.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u149	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to ask a question to the rapporteurs' senators? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, gentlemen. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is with us today. Hello, Minister, very cordially and please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These changes to the Labour Code include a small, but very important amendment, a matter that we have been trying to resolve for many years. Today is an opportunity for us to, and in principle, the state, through its resolution, can complete work on this. And it's about the situations we have today. That is why this law will be particularly important for the State Labour Inspection. Because today we have a recipe that says that the employment contract should be or can be delivered by the end of the first day of work. That's it. And that's what we want on this occasion to eliminate the so-called first-day syndrome. The amendment will mean that the employment contract will have to be delivered in writing before admission to work, including the results of medical examinations required for admission to work. It's an important change that will sort things out somehow. It is also very important what the rapporteur stressed, i.e. that this change received a positive recommendation from the Social Dialogue Council, both from employers and trade unions. The only proposal to amend this law was to set the date of entry into force of the law on 1 September. The government party accepted this proposal from the social side. I'm answering Senator Flork's question about the punishments. Of course, there's nothing here. We don't change, the penalties remain at 1 000 to 30,000, and these are fines that can be imposed by the courts. The practice in our country is unfortunately this. For me, it is unfortunately, and for some, those who are to be punished, maybe it is a "steth" that this dimension of punishment is quite low. As far as penalties are concerned, which can be imposed both by courts and by labour inspection And let me remind you that the inspector may impose a fine in the amount of a maximum of PLN 2 000, and in the case of a recidivist up to PLN 5 000 is the level of those penalties... As we look at the situation in other countries of the European Union, it turns out that we have the lowest level in relation to these European countries. So this is also a problem to solve, which is ahead of us, because on the one hand there must be a gradation of penalties, but, on the other hand, if there are situations somewhere that we have issues of non-payment of wages, non-compliance with labour rights, security conditions are being violated, and this level of penalties is very low... So it's like... But here, in terms of the range of 1 000 to 30,000, we're not changing anything. Except I don't really remind myself that last year there was a maximum penalty imposed by the court. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński would like to ask the Minister a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u152	Minister, I would ask you to specify when art. 29 §2 as we change here has become the law. Since when, more or less, did the State Labour Inspection signal that it was used for what was the first day's syndrome? And were there attempts to change this article earlier, during the previous term?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u153	As to when, I have not been able to answer precisely whether he was from the very beginning or whether he was introduced later. I'm having a hard time answering that right now. The initiatives we took by the two previous terms of the Sejm, then as Members of the Law and Justice in opposition, unfortunately did not change this provision. The projects were simply rejected. We have repeated this amendment already under the rule of law and justice, we have presented it as a government project, and it is like an answer in this matter. The labour inspection has been paying attention to this problem for many years. All reports... Senator Augustine asked that here, too. Performance reports I'm not gonna quote them here. They have been included in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, and we also have data from the State Labour Inspection in respect of non-compliance with these provisions. We have also taken into account the latest data posted for 2013 and 2014 from the report of the Chief Labour Inspector. And in these reports of recent years, one element has always been raised, and this was the issue of the so-called first-day syndrome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u154	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Thank you. I'm giving up that question. I will take a look at the results of the labour inspection given in the explanatory memorandum.]] Thank you, Senator. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It would seem that the case is obvious, and it's actually obvious, so I'd like to take care of it. maybe not so much the content of this novel, because I think everything is clear here, and I assume that it will go through the legislative process in our House without any change, but just a little bit of history. If this case has been obvious at least since the two term of office, it is a question of why, despite the trials that have been undertaken, as the Minister said here, this obvious fact has not been changed. What's the matter with you? What was it really about those who blocked the possibility of changing this provision, the rule that gave birth to pathologies, pathologies indicated by state authorities, because the State Labour Inspection is a state authority? Ladies and gentlemen, this law focuses on the concept of a theoretical state that we have heard about since the classics on the part of the Civic Platform. This country is... I'm sorry, it was theoretical if it allowed the weaker side to have a weaker side and the weaker side to the employment relationship is generally the one who does the job, the employer is economically stronger, has a legal housing I'm sure it wasn't consent that was at the root of such intercourse. It was the employer who forced on the weaker side, on the employee such, not another approach to work, also bypassing the rule. It's one thing. Case number two. There are fundamental issues when it comes to justice. Let us remember that those who used such an inconspicuous recipe through this first day syndrome were more competitive in the market. They probably didn't pay contributions, they didn't pay taxes. And that meant that those who followed the law were less competitive. And you agreed to it. The question is, what kind of country is it that hits the foundations of its existence? It was not enough that this country was theoretical enough that the employees of this country, the inspectors of the State Labour Inspection, went to check with the employer, drew attention to it and were simply powerless. What does that mean? This means that the employer also knew that you were cheating, and the Inspector of the State Labour Inspection knew about it, and the State, despite the signals, tolerated it. How is it possible that the State put its officials in such a position? Why did it mean that his officials were, in a sense, ridiculed by the deceiving people of the state? It was fiction, and the previous rulers unfortunately agreed to this fiction. It was just a surrender of the state. The state was theoretical. It agreed to the growing areas of privatisation of its activities. I'm not gonna mention the education, the health care. And even where it should be determined, where it simply collects money, and so where it regulates work relations, it did not take any action. I think it's obvious that everyone in this room agrees that it's obvious. This provision should be amended if we want you to interfere with pathological relations and disagree with them. And the last point is also a matter of budget attention. Let us remember that first-day syndrome also partially affects budget deficits. We don't know in what part, it's hard to tell, but I'm sure that impact was. You didn't do your duty here either. As I say, this example is perhaps small in terms of scope, but very symptomatic. He's just showing what you looked like under the governments of the previous governing coalitions. Unfortunately, such a country has failed. It was not a good organizer of our public life, and it was a good thing that it would change. And one last remark to the Minister. Namely, in order for this novel to be effective, its implementation must be monitored, and this will certainly be covered by the State Labour Inspection, so that we are waiting for its reports. But she also assumes that there is no voluntary collusion, and unfortunately, in the case of collusion by voluntary employee and employer, its functioning can be avoided. And maybe it's worth thinking about in the future. I'm also sending this to the Minister. As in a possible collusion between a voluntary worker and an employer that cannot be excluded, it is appropriate to behave. Would it not be appropriate to introduce a third party who will be informed that there was an employment relationship before the worker was admitted to work, i.e. the person concerned in order to provide such information but independent of the employer and the employee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator, I'd like to address those words to you. The Polish state is neither theoretical nor practical, but it is on its way and we in Parliament will always be needed, because there will always be something to be repaired. That's no reason to bother each other. In a situation where consent is given He tried to point something out. The recipe is old, and I'll remind you that Law and Justice don't rule for the first time. It's not about pointing at each other, it's about making progress. But it's a good thing you saw it too. What you said at the end of your speech That pathology in the form of illegal employment under this provision will not be completely eliminated. Let's not be delusional. Those who, as Senator Florek said, wanted to be honest employers didn't even get over the head that someone could work without a contract. The thought of what would have happened if there had been, for example, at that time. accident until the hair on the head runs Of course, when someone has hair - What's that? it would carry a risk with it, etc. Well, of course it's a good thing we're doing this. And it's not about accusing one another of what was going on, it's about making progress, but let's not be illusioned that these voluntary conspiracies aren't going to happen now, and that we're definitely going to prevent illegal employment. Of course, the case is serious. We will have to be open to the increasing influx of immigrants who will be employed in our market. They are even more at risk than Poles, that they will be encouraged to make such a voluntary conspiracy and try to avoid the law. Let us hope that our services, an inspection of work with the help of this instrument, and especially equipped with appropriate resources, will be better dealt with by dishonest entrepreneurs, with pathologists in the labour market, regardless of who will rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. He informs us that the list of speakers has run out. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak and Senator Andrzej Kaminski made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law amending the Labour Code and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 170 and the Commission's reports In prints No 170 A and 170 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry I didn't greet the Minister the first time, but I didn't notice because I was focused on the text I had in front of my eyes. The law amending the Labour Code concerns this section, which is related to the protection of women's work, and has been adopted in order to bring our regulations into line with the European Union directives on this matter, actually with the regulation, because it will continue to be a directive... I was therefore amended by Article. 176, which previously concerned women in general and as regards the clarification of the type of work which they cannot carry out, had a slightly different scope than the one currently being implemented, and now, in accordance with EU legislation, directly affects pregnant women and women who are breast-feeding and bans the performance of work which is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health, which may adversely affect their health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. The Council of Ministers shall have a delegation given in the Act, in §2 of this Article, to determine by regulation the list of works referred to earlier, which I have mentioned. This makes sense of the scope of this regulation. Incidentally, this is also an additional correction of the previous defect, which was that the law itself did not require the provisions of the Constitution to clarify certain issues and clarify the scope of the statutory delegation to the Council of Ministers, which was given in a precise manner at the moment. The consequence of this amendment is Article. 176 of the Labour Code are also amendments to other laws which concern similar matter. Namely, in the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland there is a change of the content of the paragraphs. 9 by clarifying the legislative delegation to the Council of Ministers in such a way that by regulation it is intended to determine which groups of women are subject to certain obligations. In this case, it is actually about issues that are somewhat outside the Article. 176, for I remind you that it is a duty for women to undertake specific work, actually to carry out military service, including those who study to obtain certain qualifications related to military service. And the same mouth. 9 has been clarified so that this legislative delegation is accurate as required by the Constitution. Finally, another consequence is the amendment of the law on military service to professional soldiers. Namely, point 3 of Article. 65 are modified by the wording: the performance of the work tasks which are burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health as defined in the legislation shall not be entrusted with. And that's where the reference is. issued under Article................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Of course, with regard to the position of our Legislative Commission, in general, it was encouraging, although there were some proposals for minor amendments, so that it could be determined whether there were some adjustments. Namely about the article. 179 §1 and 2 we proposed that they sound as it is written here, i.e. that an employer employing a pregnant worker or breastfeeding a child at work mentioned in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. 176 §2, as I mentioned at the outset, the forbidden worker, regardless of the degree of exposure to health or hazardous factors, is obliged to transfer the worker to another job and, if this is not possible, to release her for the time necessary from the obligation to provide work. It is also proposed to clarify that an employer employing a pregnant or breast-feeding worker in the rest of the work listed in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. 176 §2 is required to adapt the working conditions to the requirements laid down in those provisions, as well as to reduce working time to eliminate risks to the health or safety of workers. If it is impossible or inappropriate to adjust the working conditions at the current job or reduce working time, the employer is obliged to transfer the worker to another job and, in the absence of such a possibility, to exempt the worker for the time necessary for the obligation to provide work. There is also a proposal to amend the wording of the article. 2, namely by adopting a general obligation to defend Article in the Act. 48 (1) (a) 9 stating that the Council of Ministers, by means of a regulation, imposes an obligation referred to in the preceding paragraph. 1 of that Article, i.e. the obligation to identify groups of women who are subject to precisely defined obligations relating to military service and to determine the posts or functions for which women are assigned to active military service, taking into account the provisions on the list of work to be burdensome, dangerous or harmful to the health of pregnant or lactating women, issued on the basis of And here again it is the reference 176 §2. These are, as I say, changes of a more technical nature than of substance. And the committee, generally speaking, is behind these changes. Of course, I would add that there was a discussion in the committee about whether it is worth introducing this protection directly on pregnant women and breastfeeding women, since the current article. 176 generally states that women must not be employed All women In the work that is particularly burdensome or harmful to health, that is to say, it was a protection for all women through a prohibition of employment for work that is burdensome or harmful. Yeah, but there were opinions here that if these are the requirements of the European Union, then in the name of a kind I'm sorry to say this colloquially. It is worth introducing such a regulation which will be more consistent with EU rules in the sense of sound, although we are from the assumption, I think, as a society with a gentleman's approach to women, that such protection should extend to all women. Of course, there have also been discussions that today it is necessary to approach this issue also from the point of view that women have the right to choose and can sometimes, on the basis of their own decision, take the work which they once treated as inappropriate for women. This is, of course, an issue related to the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex. Of course, this is an issue that is debatable. I'll remind you. Already with this title, it is possible to broaden the spectrum of vision in terms of human rights That in law it is an eternal problem, or e.g. You can allow the principle, as the Romans said, volenti non fit iniuria, means that the wisher is not harmed. Let's say, for example. A woman decides to take a job that is objectively harmful to her. Here there are various kinds of disputes. I'll remind you, for example. The French Constitutional Tribunal, which is called the Conseil d-État, ruled at one time on a slightly different matter, that man has no right to fully decide what kind of activities he is allowed to undertake and what kind of activities he is entitled to take. No, no, no, no, This was the case of a dwarf who appeared in the circus as a playground for whom he was thrown. And the French courts have ruled that it is unworthy of a man to be used as an object for some kind of circus pranks and to be banned from employing this man by a circus. The case was based on the French Constitutional Court, which divided this sentence and said that man's dignity is so great that it does not even remain in the sphere of his disposal and that man cannot renounce it. It's just that, so to speak, a wider ad sum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u160	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law amending the Labour Code and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 13 May 2016. My predecessor, venerable Senator Cichoń, presented the report to the Legislative Commission. The report of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy is actually the same as that report. I would just like to present to the High Senate the very brief view of the European Commission, which believes that the provisions in our Labour Code are incompatible with the provisions of the European Community Directive on the matter of a provision which applies to all women, not just pregnant and breastfeeding women, and that this constitutes an obstacle to ensuring gender equality, particularly as regards access to employment. I would also like to stress that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has recognised the need for amendments to the text which was forwarded to the Senate after the adoption of the Sejm. These amendments concern both the Labour Code and the laws mentioned by Senator Cichoń on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and the provisions concerning the appointment and transfer of military duties and duties to soldiers. To sum up, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy calls for the High House to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, gentlemen. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Stanisław Szwed is with us. Would the Minister like to speak on this bill? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the committee's debate, for the committee's views, as well as for the amendments tabled, which are legislative in nature and which are adopted by the government. One of the objectives of this amendment is to implement a directive on the protection of pregnant women and nursing mothers in the labour legislation. We maintain the same protective conditions, but the point is that the directive... the Commission, so to speak, is pursuing quite strongly with regard to the implementation of this directive. We have not been able to deal with this for many years, but, I think, after all the work in the Sejm, as well as in the Senate committee, we are able to accept it in the version that is being presented. Like I said, there's no difference in the protection of women today. The controversy that has been presented in previous years mainly concerns the work of women in mines. This is difficult for many to accept. In this case, the condition of work nuisance is maintained. We give the opportunity, if that's the will of women, employment... As far as this particular example is concerned, there have been complaints against our government that this law treats women unevenly in taking up employment. Senator Silence explained it quite precisely. So if there are no questions, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u164	Thank you very much. But there's a question. Senator Czerwiński would like to ask the Minister a question. At present, the senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u165	Minister, the question is related to the impact assessment of the regulation. In this assessment it was not advisable... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Impact Assessment of...]] Yeah, that novel, of course. It was not advisable here as it is regulated in other EU countries. Have they fully adapted and also brought women into the mine, that is, only pregnant women and nursing women, and the rest of women have the same rights and obligations as men when it comes to working relationships? I would ask you to clarify whether there are countries that have not yet regulated this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u166	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! We mainly feed on ILO conventions in this area, which were adopted by Poland. We have the 2003 Convention on Safety and Health in Mining, which covers all employees. We have Convention 127, which talks about permissible maximum loads that can be carried by one employee, etc. These are general conditions. In these provisions we also apply specific powers and these specific powers apply precisely to pregnant women and women who are breastfeeding children. From the information I have, it appears that Bulgaria, France, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Romania and Spain are implementing this convention. Other countries... We don't have accurate data. It works on the basis that if there are complaints from a given country, the European Commission asks that country As she has said to us, this directive does not work. Its initial implementation date was 2008. We're almost eight years past that deadline. Many attempts have been made to regulate this, to implement legislation directly referring to the Convention, and in the previous term there was even a government project, but it was not adopted by Parliament. Now, following further interventions by the European Commission, so as not to bear any further effects, so to say, in terms of possible penalties or judgments of the Court of Justice, we have decided on such a rapid path to the adoption of this directive. I think that's the answer to that question. There are no costs involved, as it is as if it is a decision to hire or not to hire a person in a given place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask you to ask Senator Anthony Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u169	Mrs Marshal, Minister, Dear Senators, I am generally very close to the direction of change, but I would like to know the Minister's opinion on whether this change is going too far. If we say it gives women a choice... This is true in certain situations, but in situations of high unemployment? At the moment unemployment is falling, which is happy, but in many centres the choice of work is very limited. Therefore, it may also be a compulsion to work, which for women will be very burdensome, very difficult. It's not just about working in a mine, it could be working in transportation, on boats, in various places, as we can imagine. In short, is this limitation on special conditions, which is obvious for pregnant women and nursing mothers, not too far-reaching? Aren't we going too far? But shouldn't some protection be left in certain professions, particularly difficult, burdensome?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u170	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this amendment will also result in a regulation that will determine the conditions under which a pregnant woman or a nursing child can be employed. So that there will be freedom of decision, but that does not mean that this person will be able to be employed in a specific position. This will be the result of the regulation. If the standards are exceeded, then the woman will not be able to take the job. So that this mechanism gives you the freedom to make decisions, but it does not give you the clear freedom that in any situation... This may be a bad example, but very characteristic: if we are talking about working in a mine, you can imagine that e.g. in the mine area yes, but no longer on the combine; it is so to brighten this problem. That's how it's gonna work. Of course, if someone wants this recipe somehow to try to avoid it or not to follow it, we are not able to secure it with the recipe itself. But that is the intention of this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u172	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Piotr Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, it was a government project, print number 170. We have also just discussed the government project, printing 169, and this change, the amendment also applies to the Labour Code. And I have a question, out of curiosity. Both the first employment change and this change are small. Why, if it was a government project, do we have two changes to the labour code? That means twice the committee, twice in the Seym, in the Senate... Can't you? Was there any way to put it in one shift? It's like in the future... Because it is certainly a waste of time if changes are small to process separate points, unless this is due to some past events.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u174	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, we didn't want to correct the statistics, in the sense that we're going to be submitting further projects on the revision of the labour code... It's supposed to be the same matter, because it's a work code, but here we're implementing the EU directive and that's why a different path is used. And this first project on first-day syndrome... Even if for what you asked Senator Czerwiński about the time when he couldn't bring it in... I answer your earlier question: 2004. Then there was this change... about one day. I am supplementing the earlier statement here because we have checked from which point of time this provision was in operation. So that here only in this respect was... But if that's what you're asking, I'm gonna say it's our ministry's decision to make right now. We are waiting for the decision of the Council of Ministers Because we want to set up a codification committee to amend the Labour Code, which is to prepare new labour codes. And we hope that this committee will start work from September 1st this year. It will be composed of government experts, but will also be composed of experts who will be notified by representatives of the social side. And we want to prepare new labour codes, because, as those who are interested in the subject know, The Labour Code in Poland has been amended several dozen times since 1974. And that's why we're going to try to come up with new solutions that are, of course, not different from the current solutions. I think, however, that it is worth working on a new code, especially in those issues that raise a lot today, I would say, emotions or doubts, about, for example, issues related to the accounting of working time, the employment of workers, and other proposals that are made both by trade unions and employers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you, Mrs Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! While, in the case of the previous law, if I were to sign the novel with both hands, this one raises some doubts, I would even call it mixed feelings. I believe, unfortunately, that the Government of Law and Justice should not be so easily subjected to ideology 'Cause you can't call it that. Political correctness and consequences of this ideology, e.g. It is about aligning women and men by force in their rights and duties, which is a little bit like putting women on tractors by force. Minister, do we really have to do this? I know that the European Union is rushing us and will rush us. But do we really have to give in to something that is simply contrary to our culture? That's the way it's been said here before. It's against our nature because we've always respected women. This novel looks quite, I would say, whether harmless or not, but it will have a fundamental impact on the role of women in work, on the position of women in employment. After this novel comes into force, pregnant women and women who feed children will be protected, and the rest of the women will not be protected. And that's something you have to say to yourself clearly. This will not be for a simple reason: with regard to the regulation of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on Safety and Health at Work in Transport... In the justification for this novel, this law states that there will be provisions in it to protect women. Well, there will certainly be rules protecting the general public working on transport, but they will not be divided into rules for men, for women and for other groups, for example for young people, because such a division cannot be, because the European directive prohibits this. Incidentally, this regulation, which is supposed to be a targeted regulation protecting women, is also issued on the basis of a delegation which does not meet the current standards of legislative technique. There are no full guidelines as to how this regulation is to be formulated. As a result, there will be no special provisions in this Regulation to protect women, other women other than those who are breast-feeding and those who are pregnant. So they're gonna have to, so let's put them in wheelchairs in hypermarkets, carry the same goods that men carry if they want to work efficiently there. And if that's not the case, please tell the speaker that you want to include in this regulation other rules for men, different rules for women. And at the moment, in the current 1996 Council of Ministers regulation on the list of work prohibited from women This regulation is now entitled "List of particularly burdensome works..." etc. There is a very large group of regulations that protect women from carrying out too burdensome transport work. And that's one set of rules. They'll be gone, those protection laws. The second group of legislation, as discussed here earlier, concerns the work of women in mines. There's not gonna be that protection either. Well, maybe there are women who want to work in mines, but I don't know if the Minister will be able to tell the difference between this regulation and any other... It's about making a gender division again, between men and women, and saying that men on the ancestor Yeah, but women. No, no, no, no, I'd like to see that. We will live, we will see how these regulations will be implemented. It will certainly not be in this regulation, because it can only apply to lactating women and pregnant women. So what do we get? We refrain from protecting women, our women, from particularly burdensome work, especially underground, i.e. in mines, and in transport. There won't be any more security like that. Yes, we protect breast-feeding women and pregnant women, but it's natural, here nothing. We're not inventing a new one, we're inserting new guidelines into the bill. Minister, are you sure that you meant that our women could, or maybe not, be forced to work everywhere, even in places where they never worked and where only men should work, because they are so burdensome because of working conditions? I don't think it's a good path, a good direction. We should not give in so easily to the ideologies and pulpits of the European Union. If they want to, let them decide what they like, let them drive their women everywhere, even to the mines, but let them get away from ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u178	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of the Senators! Senator! Equality policy is one of the pillars of the European Union. Senator, all forms of discrimination against women should be eliminated from Polish law, as the Union demands. And it's not because someone wants to apply some kind of oppression just because women have natural rights equal to men's rights. No one has the right to take those rights away from them. And no one forces women to do any work, they choose them, not men to women. What kind of thinking is that? I thought it was those times when the law and justice of women's work in the mine If that's what they want. It was against it. It's gone. But it turns out that you're standing where you're standing, and you can't understand that it's a woman who has to decide and choose for herself. If we protect women, it is in this area that we are talking about here, in a particular situation, that we protect them during their motherhood and during their pregnancy. It seems that we should understand that inequality between men and women is just a loss. I recall the discussion, unfortunately, few of us were senators then, even very few When it was mentioned that women are to have an appropriate share in the supervisory boards of public companies. And then there were voices of opposition. It was then presented here, in the Senate, the data, how much we lose on the fact that women... [[Inequality is.]] ...they don't fully participate in all kinds of areas of life. And because I am in favour of full equality between men and women, with full freedom in every area, I believe that this thinking is state-of-the-art and economically harmful. I know women who would take your senator's armpits and take me for a walk. If they're willing to work in a mine with a man with a chucker, they'll do better than you'd expect. And it's not for you or me to decide, not the legislator, it's for themselves. That's why I think it's thinking a little bit out of this land, not from this planet, and certainly not from this continent, non-European. [[You've messed up a little.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. In a moment, Minister... I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak has made his speech... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. ...in the debate for the protocol. The discussion is closed. Do you still wish to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have a problem with how to answer that question. Because, on the one hand, for eight years, the Platform and the directives have not been implemented, Mr. Senator, and now, as it is said, the unloved PiS implements this directive.... And that's the problem with how to answer you. But not to come back... I'll answer Senator Czerwinski: there'll be a list of jobs that are harmful to women, we're not changing that. There's gonna be a separate list, because that's what this is all about, so... we give you freedom, but not total freedom. So that this list is going to be, he's going to be nothing different from the one that works today. There will actually be a ban on working in mines, but there will be a list of burdensome works. This main point will be the weight of the goods and the harmfulness of... That was your question. In shops and other... Of course, when it comes to respect, we are already touching another matter. But, as I have tried to say before, in my speech, we want to formulate the provisions in order to preserve this level of protection and, on the other hand, to implement the ILO directive and conventions and to avoid possible penalties that would be imposed on our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank. The text of the Act is contained in print No 171 and the report of the Commission In print No 171 A. Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators! Calm down, please. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Czesław Ryszka, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Environment Committee on the bill on completion of the Swine Porba Water Tank. The Environmental Commission, after considering the Act at its meeting on 19 May 2016, requests that the Act be adopted without amendment. Let me remind you that this is about the amount of PLN 53 million 230 thousand at the end of this project, which has been implemented since 1986. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please? And so until 1999 the construction of this committee, which, of course, we talked about at the committee meeting, I am merely referring here, as was mentioned in the discussion, was financed from the state budget as a central investment. In 2000 and 2004 the decision of the Polish Parliament to co-finance all investments in water management, including the construction of the Swinna Poręba reservoir, took over the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. In 2005 the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, on the initiative of the Polish Parliament, worked on the law establishing a multiannual programme for the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank in the years 2006 to 2010 and, in order to ensure that the timetable for 2006 to 2010 could be implemented, the Budget Act for 2005 allocates PLN 110 million from the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. The pace of implementation depended on the amount of resources raised, far insufficient in relation to the timetable for the implementation of the investment. Thus, by the end of 2005, i.e. until the entry into force of the law, 573.5 million PLN was spent. Due to the failure to comply with the timetable contained in the Act, the financing and implementation delays caused mainly by the amendment of the provisions of the Act were amended twice. However, in 2013 and 2014 it was not possible to carry out works for the full amount provided for in the timetable of the Act. It was about delays due to administrative decisions, as well as the financing provided by the Act. In addition, in 2015, the hydrological drought forced a change in the planned implementation plan, especially in the field of start-up. The previous government did not provide the means to complete the task in 2016. The following works remain to be carried out, for which no resources have been available. The first assignment is the tank. This is about the robots necessary to perform in the tank's skull before starting up the cutting of trees, shrubs, demolition of asphalt roads, etc. Further start of the dam, the skulls of the water reservoir and the power plant, sealing of the control and injection gallery at the floor stage, the fees for excluding land from agricultural and forestry production. The second task is to rebuild the roads. And task three is to stabilize the landslips. It is these actions that are necessary to perform before filling the tank. They were all in the investment programme, not additional tasks. Similarly, the implementation of roads is necessary in order to restore the damaged construction of the communication system tank in the municipalities. It is important to stress that in 2013 the aggregate cost statement of the investment project was updated and its cost estimate was reduced by about PLN 200 million. In total, the amount that we are transferring, 53 million 230 thousand PLN, provided for in the Act, does not increase the costs of the investment project. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'm interested. There is a law on the completion of the construction of this reservoir, and there are many other reservoirs. I can say that in Wielkopolska we have the Monastery Wielows. The tank's been built there for 15 years, I can't remember exactly. It cannot be completed, and it is a very important reservoir, because apart from the Lake, it guarantees the safety of Poznan. I understand that in that case, if by law such refinement can be treated in this way... it can be used to complete the construction of the tank, it is also possible to co-finance for other tanks, because money is, I see, from the environmental and water management fund. So I understand that this tank is not an exception, that if the construction of a given tank is unfinished, it will also be possible to apply for resources in the same way, you will be able to apply for these funds for other important tanks that are... Here I mean the Monastery Multi-Village in Wielkopolska. Am I getting this right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u186	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u187	The amount that we are currently granting was planned, so that it is not some kind of additional measure. And as far as the definition of other buildings is concerned, here is the Minister who, I think, will be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u188	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Mariusz Gajda, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u189	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I'd like to say one thing, make a little bit of history. In 3 years it will be 100 years since Gabriel Narutowicz, who later was President of Poland, unfortunately with tragic end. In 1919, he reported to the then Minister of Public Works on the need to build a tank at the Skawa in Mucharz. We've been missing three years for 100 years... This tank has a difficult history. This is where the senator said that the construction of the tank began in 1986, so 30 years ago. The construction of the tank was supposed to be -- that's what I'd like to stress very strongly. It was completed last year, but unfortunately for various reasons, I do not want to infiltrate here, for which it was not completed, and unfortunately the construction programme ended, which allowed to finance this reservoir with the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. We would not be here, in the sense of this discussion, if the previous government were to ensure that only one more year would be allowed to extend the financing of the construction of this reservoir. Unfortunately, he didn't. Therefore, thanks to the parliamentary initiative, we had to introduce a speciality. As for the other tanks... I would like to say, Senator, that as far as all other tanks are concerned, we are trying to obtain various kinds of resources, including. we are counting on European funds. Perhaps the Monastery Multi-Village, perhaps this tank, if it meets the requirements, will be able to be financed by these funds. But this tank discussed today is an extremely important tank for Krakow, not only in the protection against flooding, but also in the protection against drought, which is increasingly severe. That is why we support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister, I need you to stay here for a moment, or there will be questions for the Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Spider reporting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'll repeat the question I asked at the committee meeting. I repeat this question, and that's what I'm going to say, I'm molesting the Minister on this matter because this tank is in my constituency and I've almost seen it build since I was a kid. We're on the finish line, but there's some road issues... Besides, you know about them. At the meeting of the committee it was said that there were funds for 2 roads, but there is still a third section, namely the road Łękawica. Zagórze. According to the information I have, your uncle says that the money spent on these two roads is enough to make the third one. Perhaps the tenders will be lower... There's nowhere in the bill to record which roads are to be taken. These two are not listed in the Act or in the Annex. Is there any way that for the $3 million, if the savings are, the Glove Way Do you think I'm going to do that? This road is probably a local road, but I wouldn't regret the $3 million. Let this subject be finished at last. We know how much money has been invested in the construction of this tank, but what can be said is drowned. I repeat the question: is there any chance that, within the framework of this money, the money that will be saved will make this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u192	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, of course I do. There's one thing I'd like to say. That amount we booked... We barely got permission from the national fund, which is really very ruined. Therefore, the original plan could not be increased by another amount, by further measures. If after the invitations to tender Now these tenders will be prepared. It turns out that there will be savings if it turns out that it is actually 3 million PLN... So to the end I do not know if it will be 3 million PLN, whether it will be 10 million PLN, because it depends on what we want to get. If it's an asphalt rug, it'll probably be $3 million, and if it's a lighting sidewalk, it's probably $10 million. I would like to assure the senator that if these savings are and will be fully documented, there will be building permits, etc., this way in this investment will be possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u194	Thank you, Minister. Do any of you senators have another question for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am speaking primarily because this dam is in my constituency. For a couple of nice years, I drove from Zawia to Wadowice to school. Where there's a flood tonight, there's a track. The bill that we are amending today was examined at the forty-fifth Senate meeting of the last term of office on 11 and 12 December 2013. It was then a law amending the Act on the establishment of a multiannual programme.Programme of the construction of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank in the years 2006 and 2013. So it was supposed to end in 2013, later in 2015. In my speech in 2013, I said that I was happy to finally end this construction and that I would be delighted to vote in favour of this law with the greatest satisfaction. That's what I said in 2013 when the construction was planned for 2015. Well, it happened the way it happened, that tank flooded... It wasn't us. Technically it is We did, but the storms, the big rains that were. They've flooded him twice. I hope that this will be completed by 2017. I hope, for the last time, that I will be happy to vote in favour of the bill being adopted and that this tank will be put into service. I would like to thank the Minister because... 2015 was indicated as the year of completion, but it did not work. It's been six months, we're only doing this right now. I would like to thank the Minister. In December, I met with my uncles, then I called the Minister and you accepted them, listened to them and assured them that he would do anything to ensure that this investment was completed as soon as possible. I think that this bill, which we are investigating here today, is also your merit, for which I give my heartfelt thanks, hoping that this is really the last such law, Minister. I am finishing this speech and I repeat that I will be happy to vote for the last time in favour of a law that will finally complete and complete this tank in Świnna Poręba. Minister, I'll see you at the opening of the tank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on investment in wind power plants. The text of the Act is contained in print No 186 and the Commission's reports In prints No 186 A and 186 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u197	The Committee on Infrastructure yesterday dealt with this law and thanks to the very efficient organisation of work in the committee by President Stanisław Kogut in a rather short time managed to consider these matters comprehensively. All those who took part in the committee meeting who wanted to speak on the subject had the opportunity to do so. The minister spoke, the experts spoke, the senators spoke, and the discussion was very interesting. There have been a lot of topics on both the direct action of the Act and the indirect action, e.g. its impact on possible taxation as a consequence of the provisions of the Act. As a result of the vote, the committee adopted, by a majority, a draft resolution requesting the adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u198	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law on Investments in Wind Power Plants adopted by the Sejm on 20 May. The Commission held a meeting yesterday, attended by a number of guests, among others. representatives of various associations for renewable energy, the Ministry of the Environment, the representative of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, the Undersecretary of State, Mr Tomasz Żuchowski, and many others In total 23 people were invited to the committee meeting. The Commission has been sitting for almost three hours and I must say that the deliberations have been conducted smoothly thanks to President Peter Ziientarski. As a result of the committee's work, amendments to the bill were adopted by the committee. There are nine of these amendments, and I'm about to say a few words about them. But first, I'm going to say two sentences about the bill. There are three elements in this law that I would like to mention. First thing: what is a wind power plant? It was defined as a building object. So far, the Wind Power Plant has also been included as a building in the Land Planning and Land Planning Act. She in this act was deleted, they were in it, for example. nuclear power plant, foundations of machinery, equipment, etc., well, there's a pretty broad definition of structures. This building has been excluded from that law, and in this law, there is a new definition of this building. It's such a curiosity, because actually the buildings should be defined in that bill, and here we have a separate definition. And in this new definition, apart from this basic part, or foundation, of the tower, technical elements were added to the building. This caused among others. There's a lot of doubt about taxation. Everything points out that since constructions are subject to interest tax, in this case too, the technical elements of the building should be presumed to be the same. They will be taxed on this 2% tax. That's one thing. The second issue is the location of nuclear power plants... excuse me, wind power plants; we'll probably talk about nuclear power plants on another occasion, and it's also controversial, as it happens. Now the location of wind power plants will only be possible if it is included in the spatial planning plan, and for it to be included in the spatial planning plan, it must be in the study before it is in the study, because the study must be in accordance with the spatial planning plan, which is the whole procedure. Of course, as the zoning plan is adopted, we all know: there are also public consultations, and laying out a plan, etc. So it's a pretty long procedure, and that's the only way to locate new wind power plants right now. I no longer want to go into the details of the study as to how to define it. Study these are maps in principle on a scale from 1:5000 to 1:25000. And now it's a matter of location in the study. So far, the Land Planning and Land Planning Act states that wind power plants can be located in a study, but it refers to the designation of an area. And, of course, we can discuss whether it's going to be a large area where there could be a lot of wind power plants, whether it's going to be one area where there could be one wind power plant, and like one, it's certainly hard to locate it. So far it's been possible to do it on different terms, so here's the problem. And the third, the most important thing, is this matter of distance: ten times the height of the power plant calculated from the base to the highest point. There was a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject, and there were questions about how far this is. One of the senators gave examples that they are above 200 m high, and I know one, for example. It's about 215 meters high in New Tomyśl. So we're talking about the impact area of this wind power plant. I set an example for one power plant, which is more or less an impact area. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we mathematically calculate the area by the formula pr2, then if we take 2 km and we square it, it's going to be 4p, which is 4 times. 3,14, so it's going to be 12,56, which is 12,56 km2. If you count it per hectare, because maybe it'll be easier to imagine it, it'll be 1256 hectares. I'm also one of them. A surveyor by profession, which is why it's so easy for me to calculate. 1256 ha. So the impact of one power plant, according to the rules we're introducing, covers an area of 1256 ha. That means you can't locate a residential building in this area and vice versa, because this bill works both ways. Therefore, the issue of these distances is very important. It happens all the time. It was also mentioned on this subject. In Europe. In Austria, it's 500.1000 m in France, it's probably 500 m, which is, in principle, much smaller distances than that resulting from this law that we want to introduce. As a result of the discussion, which I said was very interesting, very substantive, amendments were tabled. These amendments in total are 9, they have been voted out. The first was put to the vote by a motion to reject the entire bill, he was not supported, the ratio of votes is 6:6. Then there was a motion to adopt a law without amendments, and he was not supported either. All amendments were therefore put to the vote. There's a total of nine of them. And these amendments, among others. Just briefly, I'll say a few sentences. They concern, among others, the following: the above-mentioned height, i.e. instead of ten times, is referred to in one amendment five times, i.e. a much smaller area of impact. There are also amendments concerning, among others: tax-related matters, so that this is clear. I'm not gonna quote the last article. 17 laws, but he would have been removed. And clear information... The Minister couldn't answer the question as to whether it had consequences... There has been no impact assessment of this regulation. So does it have a financial impact? It is well known that if we change the definition of buildings and the buildings are taxed, there is no doubt that this will be taxed. The legislator said... The Minister claimed that this was not the purpose of the Act, but the fact is that, as a result of the change that will take place, taxation will increase, and there is no doubt about it. However, such an important change should in some other way be examined and introduced, I do not know, should be the opinion of the Minister of Finance on the financial consequences of this. It wasn't there. It is therefore precisely the proposal for 9 amendments, which was adopted by the committee, and I hope that it will also be adopted by the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u200	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. You're welcome, Senator Ambrosik. You're welcome, senator first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, what are the regulations for the location of windmills in the countries of the Union? Because I think it's been regulated quite freely. And we had a lot of protests about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u202	Yeah, it was partly mentioned at the committee meeting, so I'm just gonna say what we said. Well, the regulations are different. There are countries in Europe in the European Union that regulate distances I don't know exactly how much but I'm sure the vast minority regulates so rigidly that this distance... I gave an example of France, where it is probably 500 m, and Austria, where it is up to 1000 m; this is how it was regulated. It is probably also necessary to take into account not only the rigid distance depending on the height, but also depending on what kind of wind power plant we have, and of course we do not include this in such a simple distance account. This is certainly a flaw of this law, that the sounds that such a power plant makes, the noise that it emits, depending on whether we have modern turbines... There are new technologies, they change and in a year's time, or in 5 years' time it will be possible to build a residential building at a distance of 20 at high voltage lines. Technologies are changing, and we are rigidly defining this distance ten times in Poland. She's the biggest... I do not know if there is a greater distance in Europe, in my opinion this is the largest distance determined in this way. [[Could I ask you a question?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u203	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u204	I still have a question about the protests that have happened, and they were actually numerous in the absence of local communities' consent to the location of wind power plants. Why do you think the municipalities didn't decide to hold referendums on these matters?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u205	Sir, about the protests... Of course, every such investment, and it is not only about wind power plants that we can talk about, but also for example. the power lines of high voltage, the construction of some road, highway, expressway or other... all these buildings are always causing protests. And it's a normal matter that there's gonna be people protesting. I can tell from my own experience that, as far as high voltage lines are concerned, these protests were a little bit and still will be; they appear at any moment, because everyone would prefer that such a line be away from its territory, from the place where it was inhabited, it is normal. Besides, we have a landscape law right now, so it looks a little bit different. But in this connection, such protests appear. As far as wind power plant locations are concerned, of course, there are two things. There are people... If we locate such a windmill on a given plot and for this reason such a person has the advantage... If you build your way through my plot and you take a wider belt, I'll be very happy about it, but the neighbor won't. Therefore, it is normal to say that if we locate this type of object, there will always be people who will protest and people who will be satisfied with it. I think that here, given the various types of protests that have taken place in other cases, this is more or less in this average, this is how it is shaped. I don't think there's anything so special here, I don't think there's that much of a protest compared to protests in other industries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u206	Thank you very much. [[I can be specific.]] Please, Mr. Senator. Senator rapporteur Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u207	I might be more specific, because I was also at a committee meeting, from which you present the report to the senator. I'll tell you what. Towers, masts with a height exceeding 200 m in Poland are absolutely the highest masts if we are talking about the reality we have. Power Plant Swarzewo. 26 m mast, 20 m rotor radius; Lisewo. 60 m mast, 60 kW. The average of the higher ones is about 100-105 m, plus 40... [[20 years ago.]] Not 20 years ago, because 20 years ago in Poland for such energy, Mr. Senator, there was no consent, there was no such law. It started in 1999. When it comes to the largest wind power plant complex in Poland, Margonin, it is combined, i.e. counted according to the new law, 145 m. So talking about masts above 200 m in the case of Poland is a little bit like saying that in every medium-sized town there is a building of Marriott height. This is a misunderstanding. It's one thing. Second thing. It was about this. It's a misunderstanding again. In Poland, it will not be possible to build houses in this field, which has been designated, in the field of the diameter which the honourable senator calculated, in connection with this high mast. That's not true. It's very clear in art. 15 written down that by 36 months this construction will be possible... [[After 3 years...]] You'll be able to... [[Three years after the bill was passed...]] Mr. Senator, we're talking about a situation that the law regulates. For 36 months it will be possible to do so. That's not enough, you'll still be able to change your development plan and do it. So, of course, all construction will be possible. We're talking about facts, we're not using demagogy, we're not talking about not being able to, because that's not true. [[But after three years, you can't...]] It was said that it would not be possible after the introduction of this law. I heard it clearly, that's why... [[After three years, I'm sorry if I could...]] [[Mr. Senator, you'll be able to ask the senators of the rapporteurs in a moment. Let's let Senator Pekkis finish his speech.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Third case. We focus all the time... Here was the question, which was very interesting, about conditions in other countries. The rapporteur focused only on distance condition, but it must be said that in other countries the issue of windmills is much more restrictive, perhaps not restrictive, but there are more requirements. Denmark is one of the most demanding in terms of the construction of these plants. There, the legislation requires measurements of quantities, which were not mentioned at all, to measure infrasounds, which are not in fact carried out in Poland, requires measurements and disabling of power plants from the so-called "infrasounds." The flickering effect, which hardly anyone has spoken of here, also requires other measurements. Not to mention that the most developed country in the historical sense, the Netherlands, introduces provisions on landscape development. The distortion of the landscape with a tower may be a condition for the exclusion of this investment. We're not so far off as to say that this is a restrictive bill... No, it's a minimum law that's being introduced into absolute nothingness, because that's what we've been dealing with so far. Now in the state of this freedom, randomness we introduce regulation, a regulation quite precisely formulated. It is also not true that these buildings will be subject to a 2% tax on the total cost of the installation. That'll be up to 2%, and that'll be decided by the local government. If the government wants it on its own territory, it will set a lower amount. So that's not true. This is simply demagogy, which is a hyperactive use of records that are not in this law. That's a presumption, that's just a presumption. I don't think this should be done, all the more so because we need to present what was happening directly at the committee meeting. Right now. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u208	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u209	Good. Then I'll answer that question right now. So, yes, Mr. Senator, that's not a presumption, that's the facts. What is a building is clearly specified in the bill. There's no doubt about it. There's a new definition of buildings. As the buildings are taxed, it is also clearly written in the bill. 2%. As a result, there is no 2% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Let's just say the way it is. Taxation will be 2%. I also asked this question at the committee meeting, and the Minister did not answer. That is why, among other things, an amendment has been tabled so as not to have any doubts. One amendment makes it clear that if we introduce it, the taxation of the wind power plant will be on the existing basis. Because those who invested have business plans, loans, etc. From this information, which we have already obtained, it appears that in this case power plants would be inefficient. This is the result of these analyses. And as for the effects of the development plans, the distances that the senator was talking about... That's right, it's 150 meters. I can count that for you in a minute. Yes: pr2 times... It's going to be a little smaller area, but still a very, very large area of impact. Of course, we talked about the fact that there will be no possibility of housing in this area. The Act allows that within 36 months it will be possible But it's for completely different reasons and only during this period These investments are to be realised. Because we need to think about the consequences of a spatial planning plan. I'm gonna turn this thing around right now. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a wind power plant that's been built and has a certain altitude. Today you could be near that power plant... If someone applied for a building permit, they'd get the conditions. Just to make sure there's a plan. He can build there, he can build a residential building. Once this law has been introduced, it will not be possible in this area... So this is the impact of the municipality, because if the area of impact is large, it means that there will be no possibility to locate specific investments in this area. So we must remember that any change in the spatial planning plan or the introduction of a study has some effects that are important for the local government. This is why local governments, in terms of finance, are also raising these issues in this case. In general, the problem is that at the moment every wind power plant must be included in the spatial planning plan, and in order for it to be there, it must be included in the study. Then he has to get permission. So it is clear that if such a power plant is not planned today, the location of the new power plant will be at least 5 years. After five years, we'd be able to locate a new one. Now is the question of whether we can afford it, or considering that we should have 15% in 2020 renewable energy... I think we have 12.4% today. The Minister will know better than I do. So it's a question of whether the reserves we have are enough. But we have to remember that this is pure energy, and we have to remember this mix. That there's renewable energy, that there's brown coal... And the construction of discoveries, as far as brown coal is concerned, is facing great problems. The Minister of Agriculture is having a problem with the discovery of the Tomisławice. There at the moment, miners are waiting for a new opener to be opened. There's gonna be trouble with the new discoveries, so all we have left is coal, which is the dirtier energy. Here, too, we must remember the effects of pollination, the costs. Therefore, we should not block renewable energy. We should encourage it to arise. I understand that there are some problems that renewable energy isn't all the time, because when the wind blows, it's energy, etc. That is why there are other measures to be taken, we need to protect ourselves in a different way, but we need to use the wind power plant to the maximum. That's why we should go in this direction to support it, not block it. Unfortunately, this bill will cause that if new wind power plants are created, there are few.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u210	Thank you very much. Now... Ask around? [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] Oh, well, we'll write you down as senator. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u211	I have a question for Senator Flork. One committee has not tabled any amendments, and the committee in which you work, which you are rapporteur, has tabled as many as 9 amendments, I would call them emollient to this law; that is the best term. I would ask that these 9 amendments be presented by a majority or more. Was it so that everyone voted unanimously in favour of the amendment, or for example. was the amendment adopted with the first vote? If you can determine that... [[Of course I do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u212	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Now you... We're gonna group up the questions, 'cause after one question, it's too easy... Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u213	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for Senator Flork, too. For some time we have seen a strong increase in the number of wind power plants in Poland. Tell me... [[Do you want something to write?]] ...are these investors mostly Polish or foreign capital? Just say in one sentence who's making money from it. [[Please? I didn't understand...]] [[Excuse me. Please repeat the question.]] It's okay. The point is that we have been seeing a large increase in the number of wind power plants in Poland for some time. I have the question: is this capital, these investors are foreign capital, is it Polish capital and who makes it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u214	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Senator Dobrzyński. You're welcome. Or to Senator Flork, or... [[Both gentlemen.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u215	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, gentlemen of the Senators. Was there a question of distance based on power at committee meetings, or was there just a question of height? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u216	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u217	I'll start with the third question. As to whether or not this matter was dealt with in terms of power, no, the case was dealt with only in terms of distance, because that is what the law says. The bill clearly states that only ten times the height... So we didn't talk about it. As far as farms are concerned, whether it is foreign capital or Polish capital, it is probably anyway. It's hard for me to answer, because there was no such discussion at the meeting, but probably... I don't know if it's halfway through, but it's probably capital... But there are also private investors in Poland who have invested in this, so this capital is definitely mixed. And the third question was... [[Voice from the room: There was no...]] [[Most of it at the committee meeting.]] No... There was one more question. [[What kind of votes...]] Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. What kind of votes at the committee meeting... Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised that the Infrastructure Committee, which is this relevant committee on this issue, has not taken this issue into account. Our discussion at the meeting of the committee of government and administration lasted about 3 hours. I'm also a member of the Infrastructure Committee and I'm late for the meeting because the train I was on was 160 minutes late. But he was traveling from abroad. And I didn't make it, so I got to the end of the meeting. Therefore, at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, I did not make any comments that I had submitted... The meeting of this committee, after listening to everyone, ended within an hour. As far as my committee is concerned, she was quite thorough about this subject, there were many voices in the discussion, many comments, hence these amendments. What kind of vote did they pass? All the amendments that had passed were accepted by 7:5.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u218	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator, he's still about power and distance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u219	If I may, I'll refer to the committee I've been to since the beginning. Let me be clear: the time of the committee's deliberations was due to the technique of conducting the committee's deliberations. In the case of the first committee, the meeting was held in such a way that experts were first given the floor. The experts in a technical way... perfectly focused on the technical aspects and expressed themselves, leaving no illusions about any randomness... The meeting of the second committee began with a hearing of the guests, and here, in many words, there was a slogan that they were convinced or believed... Well, I'm sorry, but it's a matter of technology, it's not a matter of opinion. This is a matter of technology, and in the case of technology there is no question of faith or trust, or that someone thinks something. And there were often such expressions. I believe that the meeting of the second committee lasted so long because the order of procedure adopted by the chairman was such and not different. And it didn't. I would like to express my opinion here, nothing to do with substance, because the substantive answer to technical issues is a technical response, not a calling for beliefs, etc. It's a purely technical matter here. And there's no reason to dwell on whether someone's convinced or not, because it's a matter of technology. As far as I'm concerned, sir, because the senator was asking about... [[Power...]] Power. This was also not the subject of the Committee on Infrastructure. [[Was it?]] No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u220	It wasn't. Good. Thank you, senators. Now, the question... But stay here, Mr. Senator, because there are still questions, perhaps for you, I don't know. Senator Marek Pęk asks a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both of you, but if you gentlemen don't feel competent enough, I'll possibly address this question to the Minister. The issue that is most electrified by public opinion is that wind power plants are harmful to human health and have a negative impact on the environment. Here, too, I have the impression that we are moving on matters of faith or some hypothesis. Either they're objectively harmful or they're not. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Are there any studies that clearly state that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u222	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u223	Yes, this was mentioned at the committee meeting, and I mentioned these aspects of the direct impact on human health and life. In the current situation, the absence of any restrictions on the distance from the construction of the power plant, the masts of wind power plants from human habitats, poses a direct threat. The first of the threats I mentioned was the threat of noise, both humanly audible, measured in any characteristic and so-called. Infrasound. This is a noise with a frequency below 20 Hz, formed by passing the propeller through the mast light, then a dynamic compression is created and this is a pressure wave that is cyclical. The second phenomenon is directly threatened by the rapid, sudden destruction of the automatic system under the influence of lightning discharges. It's just that windmills are inherently resistant to atmospheric discharges. Usually three propellers, three shovels... If one of the blades is damaged as a result of discharge, and this happens after lightning strikes, there is an imbalance in the system. I was referring to videos available on YouTube that show what's going on if the system doesn't work. At the committee meeting it was said, experts said that there were security features for automation, but the films clearly show that after the lightning strikes, automation is also exposed to destruction. The next thing you know, it's an ice-cream thing. After the icing period of the turbine, propellers and ice accumulation at the time of starting such a turbine back to work, this ice is the centrifugal force thrown away. The energy that accompanies this is very large, the objects in the immediate vicinity are being destroyed. Another issue is a direct threat and this is not a question of belief, it is a question of research carried out by both Spanish, Portuguese in Europe and Americans. These are scientific studies confirmed by publications and concern environmental impacts, mainly on the life of birds. It is said, it is not said, that the test results indicate that during the year 1 turbine kills, kills about 30.35, depending on the source of research, large birds, about 2 000 small, and if there was a bat population in the area, bats also died massly, and this is another phenomenon, they died not from hitting the shovel, but due to infrasounds, from this vacuum produced on the passive side of the rotor blade. This is a matter of research. The next threat, the type of direct effect of the turbine on human health... That's all I said back then. There are others, but I've focused on the main ones. So that is the influence of propellers, the impact of the direct presence of windmills on human life.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u225	At the committee meeting, we also talked about this infrasound, noise. Someone even gave such an example that the bulb, and the fridge and other devices turned on make noise, give infrasounds, and so on. The noise on the roads is certainly much bigger. We have certain sizes in decibels, 45, 55, which cannot be exceeded. As a result, nothing beyond the standards that power plants should meet... There was no way that any threat would be typical, greater than it is for similar devices. We can look at mines and get electricity from coal, and there are various kinds of threats, and so are conventional power plants. In this regard, it was mentioned that, in the case of wind power plants, there is no greater risk of accident compared to other types of electrical power generation equipment. As far as noise, infrasound, etc. are concerned, as I said, various other devices also seem... E.g. high-voltage energy lines. It's like it's not one windmill, it's the whole string in line. It works the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u226	I, if you don't mind... I know. I can see the calls. I will ask you this question, in the same context: did you talk at the committee meeting about whether the value of the parcels around the wind power plants is increasing or decreasing? And if you didn't talk, does it grow or fall?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u227	At the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, this issue was not raised. [[What do you think, Senator?]] I think that if someone had a plot of land on which they now have a wind power plant, and they wanted to sell there, next to that windmill, holiday homes, it would significantly undermine its value. International publications make this subject clear. Experts don't take... how fire is afraid to take the issue of valuation of such parcels. In Holland... This is an interesting country and an interesting experience. The Netherlands is a country that stood on windmills until they began to demand electricity from windmills. The windmills, as long as only mechanical work was required of them, were very useful devices. In the territory of present Poland in 1942 there were 6 thousand windmills. Until they started demanding electricity production. Currently there are fewer windmills in the Netherlands than before the boom for windmills in Europe. And that's Holland... It is precisely because of the decline in the value of the land on which wind power plants are located, power plants for electricity generation... This is an interesting example, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u228	Mr. Marshal, you can tell on an example of the road that when the highway is built, if I say so, I will hit the highway lane, of course I will gain an incredibly large amount, but if I have a plot next to the highway, I will lose access, etc. So every investment is either increasing or decreasing the value of the property. I happen to be an asset valuer, probably a thousand valuations. I've done more than that in my life. [[What about the windmills?]] As far as windmills are concerned, for the last eight years I have been unable to carry out valuations because of the function I performed, it was not possible, as a voivode, to be banned from operating and therefore not to value windmills. But the fact is, of course, there are consequences and one way, and... Of course, you can always say that the area around... And if they are, for example. agricultural land... Depending on the area we're building... Well, this is an individual matter. In any case, you have to make a valuation and it can be either bigger or smaller.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u229	Senator Mammoths, and then Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm here to see Senator Flork. Have you ever stood near a windmill, say, 200 meters from it? Sir, I didn't understand it either. I give my word, I say, what is it with these people that they are so rebellious against windmills? Really, all you have to do is walk 200 meters when the windmills are walking. Then you'll understand everything, really. You'll understand everything. Saying that a high-voltage line makes such a noise... You've just never been to the windmill. That's why you say that. Thank you. [[Or a light bulb.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u231	I'd like to talk you out of a mistake. The biggest farm is in Margonin and I had the opportunity to be close to the windmills. So I'm sure I have experience here... [[How would you value this land?]] ...and I realize... Well, you know, if you have a windmill farm, then of course... That's the whole... [[But what I'm saying is, how would you value it?]] ...the whole complex. You know, of course, we can concentrate on being against the fact that the value of the property in the neighborhood is falling, and so on. [[I mean, it's falling!]] But there are always pros and cons. There was an expert who said there were positive and negative pros that I would quote. But of course there are always pros and cons. And if we start discussing another kind of energy... Because when it comes to RES, wind energy is the vast majority, I'm sure it's 85%. But if we start discussing water energy or others, then there will always be pros and cons. It's the same with carbon. And when we start talking maybe about nuclear energy, then there will be other problems. So it's not like everything's exactly what we want, it's not everything's okay, it's free, and we're gonna take this wind for free. Unfortunately, the costs are always, in every such investment, we have to accept it. But let's see what it looks like in general. Ladies and gentlemen, we in Poland for many years did not have a planned economy in terms of spatial development, because in the previous system, before 1989, it was not important to do so. Central investment was indicated on the basis that it was to be here or there, and that was the end. I had an opportunity once, a few years ago, to be in Amsterdam and there I was presented with plans for the centre of Amsterdam, as it is. And it turns out that about a hundred years ago, the area was reserved for major arteries, etc. There was no such thing in Poland. We in Poland have scattered buildings. We can discuss plans that we have... I think the Minister was talking about 28%. plans in Poland. But are we going to increase this quantity in a short time, or are we going to do it to make it 30-40%? ? Well, we won't. Because here's the problem in local governments, because these are the costs, because there are arrangements... So we're not gonna do it. So we are living in a certain reality, and we need to adapt to that, and our investment plans need to be adapted to that. That is why we cannot block the development of energy when it comes to the wind, and we must try to match the possibilities that they are, but also so as not to block it. So that's why solutions of this kind, that ten times the height... This is really nowhere in Europe. It's just overreacting. You could definitely reduce it so you don't block it where it's possible. And yet this must be found in the zoning study. And now we need to plan it, we need to know what the right places are in Poland, where such power plants can possibly be built. And this is the whole process. That's why we have to do a little midrange, not do it like this: white or black. There's something else in the middle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u232	Thank you very much. Senator Ambrosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u233	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, the Supreme Audit Chamber in the course of the audit has identified the current rules as creating a certain corruption mechanism, namely the investor's financing of planning documentation or the transfer of donations to the municipality in situations of really conflicting interests of the investor and the local community. How will you deal with these findings of the NIK?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u234	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u235	As far as the financing of spatial planning is concerned, we know that when it comes to local governments, there is always a problem. This is why, of course, such financial support was provided to municipalities from different sides. As for the fact that there are pathologies, that they happen, it is. And if they are, they have to be eliminated. Supreme Audit Chamber And I had the opportunity to read the protocols of the Supreme Board of Control. Of course, she showed what irregularities are, what inaccuracies are, etc. But there's nothing out there that's so gross, something that would be something special, something like that. If that were the case, the NIK would be bringing the case to the D.A.'s office. 'Cause if we're suspicious of anything, that's where we're headed. We know from the press reports that there were also situations where someone in the municipality, some interested, wanted to locate the windmill in its plot, because it would make it more expensive, would have a profit on it. I'm sure there have been cases like this. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's give the local governments... Because, as you know, the Local Government Act is dated 8 March 1990, then local governments were also equipped with assets It's something that wasn't there before. And they have to decide what they want, how they want to do it, how they want to grow. It's their responsibility. If there are pathologies and something is against the law, then of course it should be stigmatized, it should be shown, informed to the prosecutor and learned from it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u236	Thank you. [[I'm still...]] Question? Is there another...? [[Can I have another one?]] Question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u237	Yeah, questioning. I would refer to it as the necessity to sanction such actions. Often there were situations in which it was the councilmen, the garrisons. In other words, the authorities that made direct decisions on the location In fact, they benefited from the fact that such locations were located on their sites.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u238	Mr. Senator, we're not debating right now, we're just asking questions and getting answers. [[I'm sorry. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] Excuse me. [[Can I have another one?]] But the question was to Senator Flork, not the senator. [[There was no real answer to the previous question.]] But we're the ones here... [[There'll be a discussion, we'll be back in the discussion...]] Well, there was a question for Senator Flork, the senator answered. As a corrigendum, you can... Do you want a corrigendum? [[No.]] Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Czerwinski will now ask the question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u239	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, question to both senators. Because Senator Florek said he was seeing some of the benefits of manufacturing, I'm speaking clearly, the electricity from the wind, I'd like you to present these to us. Because what else is the question of using electricity in a traditional way in windmills, and what else is the use of wind energy to produce electricity. The wind energy is incalculable, chaotic, so to speak. You can't predict when she'll be available. We don't know much. Perhaps the senator knows the wider and good storage capacity to use it when needed. There is also no relationship in general, e.g. with a daily cycle, like photovoltaic energy. So let me ask you a question: what are the advantages of electricity obtained from wind energy, except that it is. [[On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u240	About the formal? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u241	I would like to point out, Mr Marshal, that our meeting is turning into a discussion of the rapporteurs with all of us. This is the committee's report, so I would like to ask that we keep our rules... [[I'll remind the opposition. I'll remind you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u242	Okay, Senator. Well, there are questions, and there are answers, and I'm not going to get into the content, and I share your attention in part, but I ask you to answer that question... [[Of course, I...]] This is a practice, Senator, used by... [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] ...all senators, left and right. We've gotten used to it a little bit, although I think we're getting used to it. [[Yes, but I'd be happy to answer a few sentences to the senator about it...]] But we also have to consider, Senator, that we often go beyond what happened during the committee meeting, because these are interesting, interesting and if this does not go beyond the scope of the bill... [[Apart from the report, yes.]] They don't. [[I'd turn it on, too, but I follow the rules.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u243	The committee's report is that what happened at the committee's meeting is going to be presented, and the discussion will be on in a moment, and I'll probably take the floor in this discussion too... Mr. Senator, of course I can say this: we believe that this energy is difficult, not easy, but see what it looks like in other countries. If you're going, I don't know. On the highway to Berlin or further, you can see that there are plenty of windmills there. Others use that energy, too, and they have the problems you mentioned about storage. Well, there's probably opportunities here when we have too much energy, you have to sell it when we don't have enough, you have to buy... These are some solutions that need to be applied, because otherwise you can't. Sometimes we have to buy from someone, even abroad, sometimes we have to sell to someone if that's the case. It's important to look at ecology. Coal extraction... Of course, if we want, we can focus on the fact that we will not use renewable sources in Poland, but for example. from hard coal. But this coal energy will be even more expensive because we need to think about miners, about pensions, about all the other things, it costs money. It can't be counted in gold, but it's also a certain cost. That's why we need an energy mix, which is just in case we should be prepared to have coal and brown coal and wind energy and energy from other renewable sources, maybe we'll also have nuclear energy. I'm sure this discussion is ahead of us, but that's the government's intention at the moment. So it's good how it's a little different. Actually, wind energy is at the level of how many percent there, in total, as far as RES is concerned, we're at 12.4% right now. ... It is not much yet, in other countries this share is much larger, and I think we should try to reach the EU thresholds: first up to 15% and then up to 20%. [[You've already found out...]] [[If it's about the pros, then...]] [[I'll comment on that later.]] [[But it was for Mr. Flork...]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me, Mr. Senator Jan Dobrzyński.]] Over the past few decades, mankind, especially Europe, has been trying to step forward in advance of what is. The intensive development of wind power plants, for example in Berlin, in Germany mentioned here, was driven by deep conviction and observation of trends in the development of energy accumulation technology. A few dozen years ago, it was assumed that we would soon be able to produce batteries that could store energy on a large, very large scale, and if not, the automotive industry, and this was happening in Germany, will come to a level where there will be so many electric cars that at night 'Cause at night, the wind blows a little more. We're going to charge electric power to cars, which means they're going to be dispersal batteries. Unfortunately, this concept did not withstand the test of time, the automotive industry did not respond to the demand. In Germany, developed wind energy generates today enormous problems for this country, because when we talk about energy in no way contractable, because we don't know when it will be. And we want to sell her a temporary surplus, so we have to sell it very cheaply or even pay extra. And there's historical evidence, documents. I want someone to come pick her up from us. In other words, you can't keep that energy online because it's causing the grid to overload. On the other hand, the example of Denmark shows that if we translate all energy and at 40% We get energy from the wind, it is because of the temporaryity or periodicity of the wind blowing and the impossibility of predicting when energy is needed and when it can be contracted, that the total cost of generating energy is the highest in Europe. It is a direct cost, not to a single citizen or his salary, but to a direct, measurable cost, for example, in euro. This cost is the highest in Europe. This is a question of the cost of generating and the benefits of electricity. There is also a fundamental aspect: wind energy is beyond overrated everywhere where conventional cable does not reach, wherever we need local, local electricity, but not for sale, but for independent production from the moment. In other words, if we want to bet next to a farm where we grow, for example, cattle or chickens, a fixed-current heating system, then if we average that within 2 days the wind will blow, so it will be able to generate electricity, this is an incredibly positive aspect. The problem is that those who produce and produce wind farms want to sell this energy to the state. And they sell it for a simple reason: first selling cost The state must first buy green energy, because that is the EU directive. The electricity to the grid is far beyond the cost of what you pay by buying energy. In other words, if it weren't for the fact that this energy is given priority over price, which means that the state pays you for selling green energy more than you pay you... Quality is the same energy, but someone just thought that it would be treated better, and therefore they would buy more expensive than they sell the energy produced from coal. [[Voice from the hall: We will buy from Germany...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u244	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Wind, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you a question not because of my name and those wind turbines... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...but because I followed the discussion here on the monitor. I wanted to ask you one question, but there were three of them. I'm directing these questions to Senator Flork. Well, the senator said he was a surveyor, and he presented quite accurate figures on the area that would be a protection area for a 200-metre mast. That was, if I remember correctly, a four-digit number of hectares. Then one of the questioners and then Mr Pekkis said that basically most masts do not exceed 100 m, which you commented was that in that case the number of hectares would be slightly smaller. Well, if we know, so to speak, the basic rules of the accounts, we know that this area is proportional to the square, so this four-digit number of hectares will have to be divided by 4. So it's going to be four times less, and that's a little different. than a little less. I'd ask you to answer me if I'm right about what I said. Question two. That's part of what Senator Pekkis did, but I'd like to call it. Should these renewable energy sources in particular concern photovoltaics and wind power plants They were not subsidised by the European Union, would they be economically justified? Here's a short answer: yes or no. And the third question. In fact, classic coal power plants are impaired in this discussion. And we know that modern coal power plants are 2 to 4 times less burdensome for the environment than we know, the traditional one, I'm thinking about carbon dioxide, dust. In this case, I would also ask for a short answer: yes or no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u246	Thank you. Senator Gawada is still asking a question. There are already a number of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, my previous speaker, Senator Wind, has already touched on the issue of coal energy, so I will no longer ask whether there was an analysis of this particular subject at the committee meeting and whether there was a discussion on this subject. But indeed, if it weren't for the very big support that Senator Pekkis was talking about, then the report of the results would have been decisively, overwhelmingly, at least for the time being. For the benefit of conventional energy. But now I would like to ask the senators of the rapporteurs if there was a discussion about the real impact on human health, even at long distances from wind farms... And if it's confirmed by the research... [[That question has already been asked, Senator.]] But this is about long distances. 'Cause here he'd be... I don't know if it's... [[It was about small, big, medium... it was already a question.]] You were talking about the market value of the property. I also have a question as to whether there was a discussion about the analysis of leases, but not only the land on which wind farms are located, because also the land that is far from the wind farms, within a distance of even a few kilometers. As I have noted, such analyses indicate that the problems of reducing the value and problems with subsequent lease of these land are very large. I have one more question for the rapporteur. Was there a discussion on how wind farms will be wound up in the future? Because, as far as I know, the elimination of one position, where there are several thousand tons of reinforced concrete, is extremely expensive and this makes these properties irretrievably lost. Did such a discussion take place at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u248	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u249	I'll try to answer briefly, because we're actually starting to discuss more... [[Voice from the room: Right, discussion.]] So... That's a good point indeed. Well, math we all know, there's a formula pr2, there's a square in that... That's why I told you about the 12,56 km, this is the area of about a dozen thousandths of the city, if you compare it that way. When I know cities of a certain size... This area, when we talk about 2 km of impact, takes about 20 and 30 thousand inhabitants. But as far as I know, it's even bigger. I even read that the maximum distance could be three kilometers. So depending on what kind of windmill we have... As you said, if it's 150 meters, it's obviously going to be less impact. Why is there an amendment? Well, if instead of ten times five times, instead of two kilometers would be one kilometer, then instead of 3,14 times 12, we have 314 hectares, not 1256 hectares. So this area is really smaller. And that's why we can build, invest next door. The point is... [[But the question was, is it 4 times less?]] [[But let's not discuss it, gentlemen. I want a question and an answer.]] As far as economic justification is concerned, we can discuss economics, but we had an exact calculation of how much energy costs, e.g. from coal, but also here we have to count the costs, probably from the state budget, etc., to support energy. So there's a lot to discuss here. One thing is certain: that wind energy is pure energy, because of it there is no pollination, there is no dust. I know we have filters; in power plants there are, I was building power plants, and chimneys also, in the country, and abroad, so I know how it all looks. We can, of course, discuss this. But the committee meeting didn't talk about financial matters, what it might look like. As far as lease analysis is concerned, we didn't talk about it either. It will probably be different in the case of 1 km, otherwise in the case of 100 m or in the case of 200 m. Because when someone says that when they see a windmill, the landscape is already broken and you can't look at it, it's something else. So it's hard to answer that question when it comes to leases. As far as the liquidation of the farms is concerned, then, ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to work on the development of brown coal discoveries. I must tell you what the costs are. Consider this, too. So, like I said, there's no way there's something free. Discoveries also need to be eliminated. And we have to eliminate these devices as well. It is important that they are new, so that they do not bring back old devices, so that they do not need to be undressed quickly and that they are becoming more and more modern. That's why I'm telling you again that things are changing. The devices aren't exactly like the ones that were imported 5 or 10 years ago at the moment. Now what you're investing in are completely different devices. It's probably gonna look different in two or three years. And the bill is like a bill. The zoning plan... Once the community starts acting, it's been going on for years. Change in study, change in plan... It's gonna stay that way. That's why I'm saying once again that this distance is definitely large and that what... You're not here... The smaller the distance, the smaller the impact area, of course. We need to look at our health, because it's important that we don't... But no research confirms that the wind power plant has a different effect than, for example, as I said, an energy line. If we have any research, then of course we have to consider it, because health is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u250	Thank you very much. It's true. Who's next? Senator Ambrosik. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm dropping the question.]] Yes? I don't see any more calls. Is anybody... Oh, there it is. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u251	I have a question for Senator Grzegorz Pekkis. Whether the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee was presented or discussed in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of April this year, wind power plants in the light of the inspection of NIK. Analysis of the protection of social interests in the process of location and construction of wind power plants? Because at the committee meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u252	This report was not discussed in the Committee on Infrastructure. [[It wasn't discussed, was it?]] It was discussed very closely by the representative of NIK at the next meeting, the committee of self-government. On the other hand, he discussed this report very carefully and precisely in his deep statement here, the Minister, who, I think, if asked to do so, will also present the records of the report here. Contrary to that... [[But at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, it wasn't the same as at the meeting of the committee of self-government?]] Yes, it was discussed very residually. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u253	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. [[Oh, thank you so much for the pen.]] You're welcome. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the ministerial meeting. You are Minister Andrzej Piotrowski from the Ministry of Energy, and you are Minister Tomasz Żuchowski from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Do either of you gentlemen or both gentlemen want to speak? If so, please. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Tomasz Żuchowski: If possible.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u254	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as the bill at issue is concerned, the Parliamentary bill deals with those social issues that sounded notoriously, at least in terms of formal notice in the Ministry, for the last time... Yeah, pretty tight. And for the sake of the matter, the question of today's response At this point, I am thinking of the Members of the Commission, there is some kind of advance on the measures that the government would have to take at this point, among others. Our resort, when it comes to regulating these issues. Of course, things got so high that the list of committees which were therefore created, i.e. protesting against the location of wind farms as indicated in the control of NIK, both in 2014 and today... Its results Mr Senator referred to this report here, and it was presented personally by Mr Kwiatkowski at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure in the Sejm in May this year. In addition, of course, the Ombudsman's speeches, which I would also like to mention, also to previous prime ministers, both Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, and then to the current government... Well, it was all for a good cause, and it's proof that regulations are necessary. And I think that this project, to the extent that it was adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and adopted, is the one who solves these problems. In our view, the matter of adopting these amendments in a certain... Perhaps otherwise: in a significant part of the project, they put it as a project that does not solve the problems mentioned. Therefore, it seems that deep reflection is whether at this moment such a formula really solves the problem mentioned in the statements of the organisation. I will just mention the most important issues that have been mentioned in this context. As far as the substance of this draft law is concerned, of course it contains conditions, among others. resulting from these reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which, I believe, have indicated in a crushing and very meticulous manner all kinds of conditions that have occurred and which should have their reference in the laws or raise the reaction of the rulers to the present state of affairs. And among others. Such a response, which also sounded in the recommendations, was to establish a specific distance from human buildings and habitats. So... Because there were also questions about what it looks like in European countries, and some cases have been mentioned. I'll just say that. in Scotland it is 2 km, and in the case of Bavaria, it is basically 10 times the height, so there is an example identical to regulation in this bill. Here, of course, there were issues related to noise levels. As we know, today's noise testing methodology is that this noise is measured at a wind speed below 5 m/s. But, as the Supreme Auditorium report also indicated, the optimum speed for the windmill is over 12 m/s. However, the algorithm and methodology unfortunately did not include this anymore. I'll just say, for example, that when it comes to Denmark, at this point the noise in the day is 5 decibels, and at night it's 3 decibels. Therefore, if we refer to those conditions which operate in neighbouring countries, to the proposed ten times, it seems most justified. Moreover, the State Hygiene Institute recommended rigidly Two kilometers as a distance that from the point of view of health care... This motto was also said at this meeting that we should take care of the health of Poles and Poles, citizens of our country. Therefore, it seems appropriate to make such a sound as to indicate a specific distance, which should be indicated in the plan by a specific local authority, which allows the location of wind farms with windmills with specific altitudes on its territory. As we know, at this point it is possible to flexibly formulate the appropriate amount for a specific municipality. I will also point out one more aspect here. This does not, of course, exclude Oz energy or so-called. Prosumer, that is, for a good cause, windmills up to 30 m high are not covered by this bill. Here is another point that I would also like to clarify, that this project for 36 months allows for existing wind farms in a situation where citizens are interested, despite the indications that these power plants have a sensitive impact on human habitats... They will be able to build in these areas. It will be possible to make decisions on the conditions of construction and to make local plans. The 36-month period of vacathio legis has been indicated, and this is a sufficient period for local governments, which still want to have on their territory wind farms of adequate height and to locate housing, to construct optimal plans for themselves, of course after consulting residents about where and when... So there is no slightest concern about blocking the development of housing investments, but I would point out that, provided that citizens want housing near these plants. This issue was pointed out after this period... I think it's time enough. There'd be a certain size by now... As has already been said here, we must clearly plan the investment system in Poland so that we do not have the so-called. A free American woman. Because, as we know, you also talked about it, this building is so fragmented at this point that we don't actually have the administrative boundaries of specific towns, but we have a very distributed building. Therefore, the next actions of the infrastructure and construction department will be aimed at finally planning this space logically and determining to what extent to which direction what you can build for Poles to have, you can say, a transparent investment system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u255	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there something the Minister would like to say? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the ministers. Would any of you like to ask a question? There are questions. So, Minister, please go to the speaker, because there will be questions now and you will answer them. Who's first? [[Ambrose.]] Senator Ambrosik. Which minister? [[To your Undersecretary of State, who just spoke.]] Both gentlemen are undersecretaries of state. Minister Żuchowski is from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Minister Piotrowski From the Ministry of Energy. [[It doesn't matter which one of the ministers...]] But the question needs to be addressed to a particular addressee. [[In that case, the Minister of Infrastructure.]] You're welcome. There you go. [[Can I ask you a question, please?]] Just as the Minister will approach the podium. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u256	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, what part of the current wind power plants was allowed into operation on the basis of a notification of completion only? The NIK indicated that the conditions of operation should be the issue of a permit for use. Tell me what the percentage is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u257	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u258	As the senator noted, and as the NIK report states, the issue of today's definition of wind power plant as a construction facility... A clear indication that the building is only the base of the windmill, and the propeller with shovels no longer, caused different organs to determine this state of affairs differently. That's what we're talking about. Also in the NIK report. Some granted permission to use and others accepted regular applications. So the problem is that there was no institution, an authority that would give such a clear permission to use a wind power plant, and as we know, these are huge objects and should be subject to proper supervision. There hasn't been that kind of surveillance so far. Moreover, and this was also what we talked about at the committee meeting, this regulation containing the definition of wind power plant as a building, which determined the functioning of the authorities in such a way as to make a good point, was deleted at the beginning of 2005 in this House. It was supposed to be a bow towards specific producers. The part that generates electricity was excluded from the definition of the building and it was decided that only the construction part was a building.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u259	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the ministers? Senator Spider, and then Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u260	Minister, I have a question for you. Before today's debate, various writings and positions had affected the senators. I received a letter, among others. from the owners of windmills who put up windmills. And in this letter, there is such a charge that the law on windmills proposed by the state It's called a distance windmill -- it's down to two things: first of all, we don't build new windmills; second, the existing windmills will fall for economic reasons. They claim that this is how you want the problem of windmills, their harmful effects on the inhabitants, etc. Solve it. Do you agree with them? How would you answer them? I could possibly give them that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u261	Thank you for that question. Due to the appearance of this project, and apparently it was February 2016, I had the opportunity to participate in many discussions, including with representatives of environments, among others. in the international conference which was in Warsaw, or in the European Economic Congress, where these issues were raised and where they were said to be an anti-window law that would eliminate this industry. Well, it's a very, very big simplification, such a populist slogan that has nothing to do with the real idea of this project. Here's the thing. We could say to ourselves today that the lack of a definition of wind power plant was a kind of public aid to this type of sector. And so for a good cause during these 11 years windmills have been treated in a privileged way in relation to e.g. to hydropower plants, as far as the definition of a building is concerned, which, as we know, is directly translated into fiscal matters. The Act on local taxes and charges in respect of residential buildings refers to the usable area, and as regards other buildings, from the value of the specific property. In view of the above, it would be possible, so to speak, to reverse it and to say that all those power plants that operate today have some kind of advantage in terms of responsibilities towards the Polish State. So for a good case for the years that have passed, and the number of investments... Well, these entities have not paid specific taxes as opposed to other entities which are covered by such investments on a good case. It is therefore difficult to talk about any damage to this sector, especially since, as I mentioned, all kinds of investments covered by this definition today are treated in the same way. In addition, local authorities today have the possibility to exempt specific investments from forms of taxation, if they obviously consider this to be the objective of a specific region or a specific local authority. If that's the case, that's the possibility. I know that this sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of As far as the latter issue is concerned, it is difficult for me to comment on it at the moment, especially since a lot of investors and organisations that represent these environments, in principle, agreed that what happened hit the industry. They also want the transparent system provided for in this bill to function today, so that they are perceived as reliable investors who do not in any way violate social interests, so that they are received positively by the environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. Now you're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u263	Minister, I have a question about the NIK report. I understand that you can... not so much to summarize, because that's not the point, but to present the most important points. I am specifically interested in those points that concern corruption. I, too, know the same kind of corruption plan changed for the needs of councilmen whose families had parcels on which windmills were to be placed. The question is, is this an accident, or was there more of those described by NIK? Second question related to this The devil is usually in the details. It concerns transitional provisions which are contained in this Act. Well, if we have a 3-year period to build a house or to start building a house... I understand that because the owner of this house is making a decision at his own risk. Whether the same transitional periods or the application of the rules... Well, actually, there were no rules. So do these regulations, in the old sense, have to be about wind power stations? It is another transitional provision for drawing up a development plan, another provision for building a single-family building, and another provision for building a wind farm. Do we really have to formulate such mild transitional provisions for the wind power plant?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u264	In the context of the first question, regarding the NIK report, I will answer as follows: as I said, the first report, the general report, of 2014, concerned the location of wind farms, and the second, of this year, published on 1 April, concerned the protection of social interests, and there, as far as the case that the senator asked was concerned, was the question that in 70 controlled local governments In fact, 51 municipalities, 19 old towns, 30% of which were located incorrectly, i.e. on land belonging to the uncle, members of families of councillors or relatives. This is the state of affairs of this report. The recommendations were therefore as follows. The first thing that came out there was to clarify clear rules for financing the plan... Because there were also points of some kind of donations that were given to a particular community, whether schools or kindergartens or hospitals. In return, it was concrete, so to speak, favoring the location of these wind farms. That's the data on the NIK reports. Therefore, the recommendation was unambiguous, such as to change the municipal government law in general and to point out that local authorities, i.e. councillors who are adopting resolutions, should make some kind of statement that they are not personally, capitalally, personally, so to speak, with the areas for which they make decisions. There are, of course, many other issues that this report contains. With regard to the second question, of course, this is a matter of transitional provisions... it only concerns the so-called ones. The preferential maintenance conditions, these 36 months, with regard to the existing provisions, i.e. without the need to apply ten times the height... are materialized in relation to housing or mixed function. With regard to wind power plants, since the entry into force of the Act, it is ten times the height... There is no transitional period for wind power plants, there is only a provision which must be a constitutional provision indicating that when a request for a building permit decision has been made So he materialized. By an investor who had a title for real estate and building rights, whether on the basis of a decision on the construction conditions or on the local plan, and who does not meet these distance aspects, the proceedings are carried out on the basis of the existing provisions. This concerns wind power plants, because it is difficult to stop the procedure in the case of an investor who has already made some financial expenditures, has applied for a building permit, so it probably has a project, so to speak... This is the design of the regulations today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u265	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u266	Mr. Marshal, Minister, one thing. it is of course planning and distance, the second issue is a tax issue. I will also repeat my question that I asked at the committee meeting. Minister, the construction law, where the buildings are listed, is the whole catalog of the buildings, wind power plants have been removed from this catalog. In my opinion, these wind power plants could be left behind and added e.g. together with technical elements. But this building is defined separately in the law, in the article. 2 we have a definition of a wind power plant, and it says that along with the technical elements. So it's a building. Now I'm taking the law on taxes and local fees, which speaks in the article. 2 (2) 1 that the property tax is subject to the following properties or buildings: land, buildings or parts thereof, buildings and parts thereof... So constructions are subject to property tax. I know that this may not have been your intention, but it should therefore be adopted by reading literally the rule of law that these buildings will also be subject to a tax of 2% in full. You gave examples here... I can say, for example. For conventional power plants, for turbo-assemblys, which are also on the foundations... At one time, I had the opportunity to build one of the power plants. So now there's some inequality here, because here the generator will be taxed, and another power plant will not be taxed. There's something wrong with me here, either this tax will also be in other cases, or not at all, it shouldn't just be about the wind power plant. There's a surprise here, like I said. Minister, I would like to emphasise once again, hence the amendments that have remained, among others. by me, concerning the deletion of the article, I think. 17, as I recall, which says... [[Mr. Senator, now you're starting the debate, the discussion...]] I'm almost done. I'm done. [[Ask me a question.]] That's an important question. Everyone's waiting for an answer, but I'm almost done. Act in Art. 17 provides that from the date of entry into force of the Act until 31 December the property tax on wind power plants is to be determined and collected in accordance with the rules in force so far. That also suggests that there will be other rules. So, Minister, the question. Whether the Minister of Finance or anyone has said in this regard, or the result, the introduction of this law will result in this tax of 2% ?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u267	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u268	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As far as this question is concerned, this is the following question. At this point it is difficult from a technical point of view, which today is regulated by this law, and which, as you will notice, logically introduces, also in accordance with the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, an indication that when we have a chimney and a mast, we also have a wind power plant, because it is a similar building, it is a building, we must name a thing by name... Therefore, it is difficult for us today, without calling things by name from a technical point of view, to point out that the wind power plant is only the basis without this device, otherwise it is difficult to say that it is a wind power plant. Therefore, it is said that the construction is a wind power plant consisting of both the technical part, the base and the device installed on it. Take, for example, the highest windmill in Poland, a 210 m high wind power plant entered in the Guinness Book of Records, which is next to Highway No. 2 in Nowy Tomyśl. If shovels weigh more than 50 t, it is difficult at this point to say that it is not a building or in any way to separate them from a base that weighs 350 t. Therefore, from a technical point of view, this is included in the definition of structures. Let's move on to the indication of the article. 17. I was a participant in the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, and there was work in the subcommittee. The proposal, which was notified in this context, was submitted by the Legislative Office of the Sejm and pointed to a direct link between the definitions contained in the building law and the Act on local taxes and charges. Therefore, in order for this law to be consistent and rational, the provision proposed by the Legislative Office in the form that the senator requested to read should be introduced. It's about making this project compatible. And indeed since 2017, since we say that the windmill together with the drill and shovels is a building, this tax will have to be paid on the entire investment, as is the case with other types of energy, which until today, as I mentioned in my previous speeches, has been privileged both by the building law system, it is a technical aspect and by the tax law system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u269	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Bonkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u270	Minister, I have a question for you because you're questioning yourself with this NIK report all the time. Indeed, there have been various pathologies, as in every field in Poland in recent years and here there have been pathologies, I do not rule that out. But now I'm going to give you an example. Answer me the question: if there are three bribery doctors in the hospital, do they have to be kicked out or removed? If there are pathologies in this industry, do we have to eliminate pathologies, or do we have to eliminate the entire wind industry? That's the kind of reasoning. Can you answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u271	I'll answer that. I think that these emotions that are now accompanying it, and such a combination, so to speak, the sensitive two issues are not allowed because of such a fact. If we are dealing with a situation that the senator has asked to mention, then in my view, procedures should be developed that will eliminate this situation at this point. In my opinion, the development of the procedures we are discussing here today is a kind of response and leads to no more negative situations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u272	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u273	That's another question, Minister. That's the answer... Let's make it 150 m times 10, which is 1.5 km. Even make it two kilometers. Are you aware that under Polish conditions there is no chance of setting up any power plant? Maybe 2% of the country would do it, but there are no winds there. Nobody puts it where there isn't... It's the same with liquidation. You have to say it straight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u274	But, Senator, you're discussing now, not asking questions. Is anybody... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Tomasz Żuchowski: I only have one sentence.]] But that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u275	The Wind Energy Associations, both wind farms and renewable energy, did not discuss this, did not protest on the matter that the senator asked to mention. I think there's some kind of denial here, an exaggeration of the subject in relation to the actual state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u276	Any more questions? There you go. [[Voice from the room: We regret to say, Mr. Marshal, yes.]] All right. I see three reports. Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This bill will, of course, lead to a certain limitation on the construction of windmills on land. Does this mean that the Ministry will therefore support the construction of windmills at sea that do not cause the risks you mentioned here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 2011 law on maritime areas, which introduced a limit on water energy: 12 nautical miles from the coastline. This standard works. As far as RES support is concerned, yes. I would like to make it clear here that this is not an anti-windmill bill or against anyone. This is a civilising law to locate specific investments. I hope that in the future we will be able to civilise the system of location of as sensitive investments as well as very popular ones. The point is to have a transparent system and know where anything can come from and whether to buy a plot there, or perhaps to give it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u279	Thank you. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! What you asked Senator Bonkowski... In the context of the consultation that you have done with organisations and companies active in this industry or other organisations, positive opinions have emerged in relation to this project, saying that this is a movement in the right direction, etc.? It's one question. Then another one, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u281	I would like to mention that this is a parliamentary initiative. I was based on materials that the resort owns. These petitions, opinions of different kinds of environments have been formulated over the last few years. At first we answered the questions, we said that so that things would actually happen. The attempt to regulate this matter was the famous printing No. 758 in the previous term of the Sejm, which however got stuck and this did not happen. In general, the previous government side resisted some kind of resistance. It was also a parliamentary project at the time. As we know, it is a matter of many interests of individual groups. As far as consultations are concerned, the consultations that were there were, it was sending opinions... It's about the Member of the applicant. The resort received this information both from investors and from environments that indicated the need to regulate this matter. I, by providing information, am based on the information I have from the autopsy, from the discussions and debates in which I had the pleasure to participate. Comments were different with the progress of this project. The main issues were the introduction of technical supervision for existing wind power plants. As we know from the work of the Sejm, this issue has been removed from the scope of this bill. The comments were formulated, but only in terms of the increase in real estate tax directly correlated with the inclusion in the definition of the construction site of wind power plants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u282	Thank you. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u283	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as you can see, there is quite a common belief in this House that it is de in fact, the decommissioning of this renewable energy source. In the Western Pomerania, among producers or planning to produce energy from this source, this belief is absolute. They're worried. And here's my question. It seems that this is the protection of Polish coal or the Polish mining industry, or the focus of us on coal power plants. I would like to ask what the Minister's opinion is on this matter. Is this really what this law is supposed to do? Because the comments that were made by social organizations were that noise, infrasound, etc. Not exactly, as you can see, convincing us in this room. Answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u284	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to point out that when it comes to the so-called. The weaker one, the smaller one, because he's Iksinski, who doesn't have the strength to beat him, doesn't have the money, etc... I wouldn't underestimate those voices. There were a lot of voices. I, coming to the Ministry for this position on 18 November 2015, and, moreover, working in the Ministry in various positions since 2008, knew these matters from the autopsy. So I wouldn't put it together so that it's kind of an imaginary problem. This problem has indeed been reported from 2009 to every government, to every prime minister of the government by environments and organisations. These committees were set up over 600. Even one of the interpelations was about exactly how much it affected us... We did a good job, and we counted all the protests, all the writings that were in this case. As a matter of fact, another one came in in December. And for a good cause, for three months, we've been texting back when it's gonna be, why, how it works. And the questions were still duplicated, the same when this expansion system was regulated in no way controlled. Therefore, I would like to point out here that people should not be underestimated, especially the voices of people who actually demand the so-called. their rights and some kind of peace in the area in which they should function. And the Polish state should guarantee both certain clear standards of human functioning and its protection, as well as the possibility of making investments around man. And so on the good news today we have to look through the prism of man, investments are only second. It turned out that these investments were actually created in an uncontrolled manner, moreover, In contradiction with human expectations. Watching all kinds of programs, we can see protests. Trash incinerators and other sensitive investments raise protests. And today, no response from a government of one or another... If the senator were in my place or in another role, I think the reaction would be the same. In my view, the issue of solving this problem is strictly substantive. From a planning point of view, the idea is that today's investment is actually perceived as a kind of cautious system that everyone knows how it will evolve. [[I'm just ad vocem. I was asking about coal. You know, in defense of the forest...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u285	Mr. Senator, no, there's no ad vocem. Excuse me. We're asking questions. [[I mean...]] There is no ad vocem formula when asking questions. Second question. Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two brief questions about the Minister's statement. I understand from the Minister's statement that because there were a large number of protests... Because, of course, windmills have their power, so to speak, negative to the locals. It's obvious. Just tell me. I understand. That's what I'm saying from the Minister's statement. That it is healthier for Poles to obtain electricity from coal than from windmills. Yes? That's the first question. And the other. Could you tell the Minister? Because the distance issue here is a very debatable element... Could you tell the minister how nicely you put it? In civilized countries this distance from the farm to... [[Voice from the room:...houses.]] Home. What are the distances?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u287	It's already been done. Mr. Senator, you weren't here when it was served. That's okay, it was served. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I'm so sorry.]] Okay, so now someone else comes in and asks the same question. [[We'll make sure no one comes in.]] Don't repeat the questions. That question has already been asked. Senator Grodzki, please. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[You're the minister who's not answering the questions?]] [[Voice from the room: Group.]] Grouply. [[Yeah, group.]] But, Senator, wait a minute. Now Mr. Senator Grodzki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I asked if it was really protectionism of Polish coal and Polish mining. You weren't kind enough to answer that question. I share your opinion that you should listen to people's voices. I hope... well, I'm not gonna ask you about the Bialowieza Forest, because there were a few thousand protests, not 600 associations, let alone other things. It's a good thing we're listening, just answer that question I asked before. Is this in your opinion the protection of the Polish mining industry and Polish coal industry? Are there other substantive indications based on sensitivity in terms of the fate of ordinary Iksiński, as you graciously said?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u289	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u290	Dear Senators, as regards the collective question, which is the issue of protectionism... Firstly, from this pulpit never came together... it never fell either that it is in any way the promotion of conventional coal energy, or that it is any decommissioning of RES energy, or that it is any protectionism. It is also difficult to tie my person or Minister of Infrastructure and Construction to Polish coal and at the same time to be lobbyists of Polish coal... That's two. What is more, I consider it illegal to compile the location of specific investments in comparison with the burning of Polish coal and the obtaining of energy for our houses. In the context of distance I've mentioned this to you before. The question is: in Scotland it is 2 km, in Bavaria it is 10 times the distance, so there is the same mechanism as we have in Poland, and in Denmark it is probably 500 m, but they have very high noise limits, which in practice means a distance of about 1.5 km from buildings. Today, as we know and as Senator Florek pointed out, Poland is most fragmented when it comes to construction. Therefore, there is no possibility in this particular case of focusing within the administrative boundaries of villages or cities, but we need to look at the individual Iksiński who lives in specific places.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u292	Thank you very much. Minister, was the lack of regulation regarding the construction of windmills, such chaos, mess in this area, a sign of the protection of windmills with regard to coal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u293	As I understand it, the question is kind of reversed. The question, as I point out... I also speak on behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, who is not the author of this bill, but fully supports it. Due to the fact that the planning aspects, in terms of our competence, as well as the structural aspects connected, so to speak, the location and legal permits are in our portfolio, we fully agree with the provisions of this project; we also agree because, as I mentioned, this matter already functions. Moreover, the question should be asked whether in 2009 all kinds of protests were protectionism of Polish coal, and the Ombudsman is in principle a protectionist of Polish coal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u294	Thank you very much. I don't see any more... Senator Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u295	I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Minister... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Tomasz Żuchowski: He is not here, he has left.]] [[He's not here? And why did he leave?]] It might be for you... [[Then why don't you ask the Minister a question? Although I don't know why the Minister left because he should be.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Oh, that's an explanation... there you go, Mr. Senator.]] Minister, I mentioned those letters that were coming down to us. There's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, there's, uh, there's, uh, there's, there's, uh... Please note that the companies of the State Treasury receive from the final recipients, e.g. households, the amount of PLN 300.320 for 1 MWh, that is to say they earn on our energy and green certificates. In turn, some countries keep saying that renewable energy is being added to the energy of renewable energy. So I'm asking where, since even state entities make money on our merchandise like ordinary brokers. They buy energy from us for about PLN 150.160 per MWh and then sell it to citizens for about PLN 320 per MWh. Would you mind commenting on that and telling me if it's really true?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u296	It is difficult for me to comment on this issue because of the substantive aspects that are within the remit of the Minister of Energy. Which is why you're gonna let the senator know that I'm not gonna answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u297	I will oblige the Minister of Energy to reply in writing and we will write that down. Okay? You agree to this solution, Senator, yes? Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If that was a question, please tell me it was, then I'll read it to myself... [[That's when I did.]] I'm sorry we haven't been there since the beginning. Minister, did you, or did you, make your resort from the point of view of shaping buildings in Poland and other conditions, which are characteristic of the city, geological and other... Have you done such simulations, or is there still the possibility of setting up wind farms under the conditions that the law introduces? This is what Senator Bonkowski asked, who said that only about 2% of Poland's land will be able to build wind farms. Was this analysis done by you?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u299	We didn't do that analysis. The 2% issue is at this point, as I understand it, the result of the duplication of information that the Wind Energy Association transmits, because it actually introduces such information from the beginning into public space. But I'd like to point out one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, let us note today's situation. After all, there are existing locations of wind power plants. There's more than 4,000 of them. Moreover, the information we have indicates that there are several hundred permits issued for the construction of power plants, which investors already have for a good cause today. Moreover, the municipalities will at this point have a tool to clearly indicate in which direction they want to develop, where they want wind farms where they want to have housing. In my view, it is not justified to force this type of argument, supported by some kind of indication of a digit. But we really didn't do that analysis. Moreover, I would also like to point out that the question of the location of wind farms is also related to the so-called. the windiness on which the Institute of Meteorology and Water Management publishes certain data, and on the basis of which the investor makes decisions. Moreover, as we know, some kind of pilots are often placed in specific locations to check whether the investment will pay or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u300	Thank you very much. No further questions. Very cordially... [[I have a question.]] [[They're still here.]] You did, didn't you? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u301	Minister, at the disposal of the article. 3, which provides that the location is only based on the local spatial planning plan, in a situation where it is known that in Poland these plans are covered with, say, about 1/4 of the area, in other cases, that is, where these plans are not, the construction is excluded? So I understand that the location on the basis of construction and development conditions is unacceptable, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u302	Here, too, I will point out that all the environments have confirmed: yes, both hands are signed to end with some kind of pathological situation, that here is the decision on the construction conditions in connection with good neighborhood law indicates that the windmill located 20 km away This is a good neighborhood that allows another windmill to put in this place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u303	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I inform you that a representative of the government has not committed himself, but I oblige your representative of the government to answer in writing the question asked by Senator Andrzej Pajak; it is the Minister of Energy. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bonkowski was the first to vote. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I wish there were 20 of us in the room, so I could actually say that it doesn't make sense what I'm going to say right now. Because on the left are the opposition senators who are behind the windmills, and on the right are the senators who are definitely against. Everyone just makes their arguments, and those on the one hand, and those on the other are not entirely true, because they just say nonsense. I've been on this subject for a few years, and that's what I'm interested in. Before I start... Don't worry, I'm not gonna read all this because it would take some time. But I would like to say to Mr Pekkis that the current modern wind power plants... Because you're saying half-truths. If the lightning strikes and breaks the propeller, the windmill doesn't go on two and a half propellers, it just changes the propeller and it's balanced. Modern wind power plants have ice sensors because they would be vibrations, and they automatically stop. If the ice doesn't fall and the windmill isn't balanced, it won't move. That's one thing. But these mistakes are a lot more in you because you'll find them on YouTube... but what, the power plant goes after the storm for two and a half propellers? This is ridiculous. Like I said, it's too bad there's 20 of us here. It turns out that there are only those in the courtroom who are interested in this subject. And I suspect those 80 people that aren't there aren't interested at all. And I would like to give you some knowledge, so impartial, just to tell everyone so that everyone can make a decision when they vote. I'm going to give you a little bit of an excerpt here. Because I've worked a little hard. First of all, what I would like to know about the financial consequences. Because if you make a bill, it should be given the financial consequences. And I have not heard anyone present the financial consequences of this bill. The draft law on investments in wind power plants undermines the interests of local governments, residents, investors, the Polish economy and the state budget. In my view, the implementation of the proposed law would result in the introduction of a moratorium on the construction of wind farms and the termination of the operation of most existing wind farms in Poland. The draft law contains provisions which constitute a tax on wind farm operators five times higher than before, as well as the introduction of top-down distance criteria for existing and planned wind farms, which are not possible under Polish conditions. The drastic scale of tax growth will have an expropriation effect, as such a solution will in many cases lead to the bankruptcy of hundreds of investors, especially those of our own, domestic, individual, who will not be able to handle borrowings and pay the taxes imposed. In fact, a sudden, oversized increase in taxes instead of bringing budgetary benefits will have the opposite effect. The second element to be noted is the change in the definition of wind power plants, which implies many negative consequences. Another critical issue is the introduction of the principle that the distance of the windmill from the residential buildings is to be ten times the height of the windmill with the blades of the rotor. The ban will also apply to people who wish to build a house at a shorter distance from operating wind farms. After 3 years... Because no one says what's gonna happen after three years. The power plant is 25 and 30 years old. So, for 30 years, nothing can be built there in Poland? Because it works both ways. So they're not demagogues like you said. It's just for three years... There's just injustice. But I'll talk about it in a minute. The proposed provisions of the bill set up a protection zone around a device with a diameter of approximately 4 km, while the acoustic analysis carried out at home and abroad by certified measuring laboratories shows that the impact radius of this type of equipment is several times smaller, depending on local circumstances, such as terrain sculpture or type of vegetation, as well as the number of turbines. The imposition of clear distance limits in advance does not properly take into account the specifics of the place and does not allow for optimal investment placement, i.e. inappropriate management of public space. This also undermines the sense of using state-of-the-art and continuously improved wind turbine models, where technological progress results not only in increasing energy efficiency but also in the continuous reduction of noise emissions. Rigid distances will therefore encourage the use of older, less modern solutions, with obvious environmental damage and energy-efficient space management. Therefore, in my view, it is appropriate to introduce a statutory rule that wind farms can only be located on the basis of local land-use plans... That's what all investors agree with. Because the bill is needed. It's all really gotta be sorted out. But you can't fire a baby with a bath. ... Within the framework of which the local authorities would determine the individual adjustment of the distance to the location of wind power plants. The planning procedure gives the municipality and its residents the greatest opportunity to decide on the principles of spatial policy and the related directions of investment. According to the laws already in force today, minimum distances based on detailed environmental analyses may be contained in local legislation, which is a manifestation of the legal and constitutional planning power of the municipality. Thanks to the statutory participation of the public in the planning work, regardless of the same participation in environmental procedures, the adoption, through the democratic transparent procedure of the local plan, gives the highest guarantees of respect for the interests of the local community. I would like to say that in my municipality and in several neighbouring municipalities, and in many others, development plans have recently been made, there is agreement, consultations have been held in villages, there have been meetings and wind farms are planned. And the local people, the locals agreed. So, since we can now let people build and even make new plans for 3 years, well, not many people will make a plan in 3 years, but with good winds they can. And why, in the case of existing plans that have passed the entire procedure that the residents have agreed to, do not introduce that these plans are valid for three years, and let who else have time to take advantage of these plans? Because I know a lot of companies that are practically at the end of the paperwork, waiting for different research, but they won't make it, because the bill comes into force within 14 days. And yet the municipalities incurred the cost of making plans, the companies put measuring masts, the documentation prepared. And now what, they take three years, and houses can be built for three years? The law must be equal for both sides. This is because the current environmental regulations and regulations on changing the way agricultural land is used require a very precise indication of the location of each wind turbine and its impact zones, including its acoustic impact, also in a very readable graphic form of the map. In such a situation, the introduction of rigid distances which are contrary to environmental law, as well as the principles of planning power of municipalities, will not only be contrary to the social and economic interests of municipalities, but also detrimental to the security and energy independence of a country whose wind energy is an important element. Because in Poland nothing pays, winds don't pay, coal power plants don't pay. Well, in Poland, there's practically nothing that pays off, because everything has to be added to it. And we must have green energy, because if we do not have it from Poland, we will have to buy it from the West and pay for it. Because no one says what's in return. We will eliminate, but by 2019 we have to have about 19.3% electricity from renewable sources, and we will not have, so there will be millions of penalties for Poland. Did anyone think of that? Isn't this some kind of deliberate lobbyist action to put an end to it and so we have to spend a lot of money as a country to buy green energy from Germany or anywhere else? From topographical studies What I'm saying doesn't apply to these 2% the information referred to in point (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) The Institute for the Protection of the Environment The State Research Institute, Minister, can be verified that the introduction of a relocation zone with a diameter of about 4 km, i.e. it would be 2 km from the nearest residential building, protected landscape areas, national parks, in the case of Polish conditions, means the exclusion of the possibility to locate modern wind turbines at almost 98% surface. So that's the 2%. The surface I'm talking about is that you can locate farms there, they're not from the moon, they're data from a state institute. Thus, any further development of wind energy based on modern, quiet and highly efficient turbines will be hindered. The proposed distance rules therefore do not solve any real problem, but merely push the wind industry and local authorities into legal disputes about the so-called. acquired rights and where significant financial benefits are lost. With regard to the development plans of municipalities, such irrationally large minimum distances would mean that the municipalities, which rely on renewable energy, would be deprived of the possibility of achieving most of the local income. It is worth noting here that due to natural conditions in Poland, low-income communities are most often located in areas favorable for the development of wind energy, rural areas, and weak agriculture. Tax revenue for the government and local government sector through the creation of wind farms with total capacity That's what we've got right now. Around PLN 5 300 MW is estimated at PLN 342 million from CIT, PLN 35 million from PIT and PLN 243 million from real estate tax. It means that the influence... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but time is up.]] Not yet, and I'm almost done. You're welcome... [[But...]] I rarely speak, so please... [[Okay, but you've been talking for 12 minutes.]] That means tax revenue for the government sector...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u305	Mr. Senator, time's up. You're entitled to five minutes, but later, in your second speech. [[I'm the one who says I'm not gonna use those five minutes.]] No, because that second speech... There's no such thing. Mr. Senator, there are regulations, we all follow them, and the marshal, and every senator. It's ten minutes... [[Sign me up for another five minutes and I'll be done.]] Yes, of course, please. 10 minutes first appearance, 5 minutes second. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo...]] [[You could let the marshal talk a little longer. I wonder if your marshal always follows the rules.]] Mr. Senator, please don't comment on this. I'm following the time for all senators, and the left, and the right, and I'm certainly not going to make exceptions for you. [[But I only said eight minutes.]] Don't comment on that, okay? And silence, please. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to address the question that Senator Florek asked me to answer. Well, the question was very simple, and I asked you to give one advantage, one plus of electricity from wind energy. And I heard as an answer that the only advantage is that if we enter the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, we see windmills everywhere on the way to Berlin. Well, we can recreate it from the protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, if that's the case, it's no good, at least for me. I just wanted to learn about the actual recommendation of wind power in terms of electricity generation. I didn't find out because there's probably no such thing, at least I don't know it, but maybe I'm wrong, you'll get me wrong. What's really going on? It is another ideology which is transferred to the territory of the Republic of Poland from the European Union. This is ideology. I mean, really. This wind energy directed at electricity generation is inefficient, the road and really no one needs it. She needs only the ideologies of the European Union, she needs a certain ideology in which we believe. But we believe in this kind of thing. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it's harmful to health, there's research. Depending on the country that conducted such research, and on the test method, several areas are identified, but one is sure, namely infrasound. The effect of infrasounds on the human body has been examined relatively recently, but it can already be measured, contrary to appearances. Secondly, energy produced in this way gives rise to social protests, ladies and gentlemen. The question is, why are you protesting? If I said so, so perfect, and if it were so obvious, so beneficial, where would the protests come from? Are they, I don't know, artificially induced? If so, then the question arises, who is behind the people who artificially provoke these protests? What are the factors? Who cares? After all, it is generally that these people who will live or live in the immediate surroundings of such a power plant or such wind farms are protesting. It's their business that's affected. No one's coming from outside. Why shouldn't we consider it? A little of that, from the NIK report, which was sort of summarized here, it turns out that 30% the procedures which are related to the location of wind farms are related to corruption. We just heard it from the Minister here. The question is very simple: why do you have to corrupt 30% of officials or functionaries in municipalities or counties so that you can locate a power plant there? Do you know another process, another procedure that's so corrupt? Objective tests, please operate. Because the research of the Supreme Audit Chamber was objective. If it is such honey, then why is the other side corrupting Polish self-government? Why can't the location of the power plant be obtained in a normal procedure? Well, that's the obvious thing: because the people who live there, these power plants are disturbing, they don't want those power plants on their property. Besides those who are directly interested, but only mercantilely, only in cash, only in terms of income. And that's sometimes illusory income, because then it turns out that sometimes this income just might not disappear, but that there are no presented costs that are related to these revenues. Inefficient energy, for which industry does not really know what to do with it, and sometimes it has to pay extra to sell it so as not to spoil the energy system. It's energy that's unhealthy, energy that actually causes corruption at the lowest level. It's actually ideological energy. The question is how should the Polish state react to such a thing. That's how he reacts in this bill: civilize it. Let's see how this bill works. This is where they say we're against wind energy. I will say this: if these windmills rise according to the law, they will be effective, they will be helpful. Because they can only be helpful in the so-called green energy and what needs to be paid in connection with the purchase of shares. The last question: why are you so resisting the adoption of this law here? I could understand, if it were, I don't know, related to some process that you started earlier and you have to finish. But as you look at this process just a little bit from the distance, it follows that the Polish state is a postcolonial country. This is where dirty industries come in, dirty methods of energy production, not clean ones. 'Cause they're not clean at all. The creation of one windmill supposedly pollutes the environment more... Or else, the energy involved in producing such a windmill is more impure than the energy from coal. But you don't talk about how you have to contaminate the environment to produce the turbine and the equipment that's in that turbine. So what's really going on? Who's pushing this energy and for what? Poles do not want it, it generally gives birth to social protests, does not want its inhabitants of our country, does not want it most of society. What's the diet? What's really going on? I didn't get the answers to those questions in this room. On the contrary, all your arguments are of this nature: please show the pros Well, these are the windmills we have on the road from the Polish border to Berlin. That doesn't convince me. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Frost, please. [[Absent.]] Absent? Well, that's too bad. Senator Blackbay, please. [[I was surprised.]] Yeah, me too. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It'll be short. I don't think I'm going to say anything here other than what happened during the discussions in this Chamber, but I would like to draw attention to a few elements. First of all, I would like to refer to what Senator Czerwinski was talking about. If the production of green energy, generally understood, including windmills, is what you call a dirty industry, then I'd like to know what you think is a clean industry. I understand that production of rape oil or plant production is clean. Industry is something like this, Mr. Senator, which always has side effects. Always. And now the issue is such as production, widely understood, including energy production, affects the environment, including man. As an argument, I'd like to give you one or even a few of these cases. Why are we in favour, at least some, of green energy? As the Minister of Environment once said: one spinning windmill is better than one smoking chimney in the production of the same amount of energy. That's one thing. Secondly, a recent report on the most polluted and harmful 500 cities in Europe has been published. And you probably know how many cities in this 500 are from Poland: 300. And I would like to say that these pollutions and this quality of life of the inhabitants do not result from the fact that it is in those places where the worst conditions are, as in Livec, for example... The first place in Europe, in terms of air, living conditions, etc., is the Żywiec. Why? Because the main element of energy production in Żywiec is waste and coal. Terrain of course... [[The chop...]] Yes, the senator's right. As one of the inhabitants of Żywiec said in the interview, in Żywiec waste is sorted into flammable and non-combustible waste, and flammable waste is sorted into flammable in the day and flammable in the night. One of the most famous elements of non-harmful energy production, such as the incineration of waste or coal burning, is the production of green energy, undoubtedly. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that 100% I agree with Senator Bonkowski, but not because we come from one voivodeship. It is a voivodship which has a lot of experience in this industry. The obvious thing is that a large group of residents will resent that it is too close, that noise etc. As Senator Bonkowski said, it was the right thing to go towards improving the technical quality of the devices, not changing the distance. The distance will be set at 1 km or 1.5 km and on this border will be created any wind farms, with very bad parameters, etc. We are not moving towards modernity and higher standards, but we are moving backwards when it comes to the standards of equipment used to produce wind energy. Mismanagement of space is one of the important elements. Mr. Senator spoke of it, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the Minister if there had been any analysis of whether any wind farms would be created at all if this law entered into force. Minister, you have to call things by name in Poland there will be no wind farms. That's it, that's it. You've got most of it, so you're gonna... [[But that's not what anybody says.]] That's what I'm saying for you. You're gonna make it up to me, and you're gonna make it up to me. And you will find arguments: that coal is better, that burning waste is better. And by the way, windmills kill birds, chickens don't carry, and earthworms move out of such a windmill. etc. These are elements that during various debates... [[The earthworms?]] Oh, yeah, yeah. Mr. Senator, during the debate against the windmills, they said that all the earthworms from the areas where the windmills are were lifted out. I repeat what I've heard from people who think wind farms shouldn't be built. I'm going back to the issue of mismanagement of space. If we combine these two things, that is, mismanagement of space and reducing the technical quality of turbines that can be used, we will have... We're going the wrong way. Of course, I am in favour of deciding whether a particular windmill, turbine or wind farm can be built, depending on the strict procedure in the municipality. It should not be that, since one, two or three municipalities have been distorted by a procedure, production of green energy is totally prohibited. It's like someone's driving against the current of a one-way street, and that's why this street was shut down. Senator, I understand, said it was inefficient, that the way, that from the European Union, that just any... And that coal and waste is better. I would like to say that we are third from the end in the European Union when it comes to the amount of energy produced from the wind. We're not a tycoon, so I don't think it's that bad yet. Denmark and other Baltic countries are at the forefront: Norway, Sweden. I would like to say that life expectancy and quality of life in these countries are higher than in countries where the amount of green energy is much lower. One of the elements is wind energy... I'm talking, Mr. Senator, about wind energy in these countries. We're talking about her now. In conclusion, I would like to say yes. I personally believe that movement itself is a move in the right direction, towards regulating certain things, civilization, if they were not civilized. But this strengthening of the decision-making of the municipalities should... They're the ones who should make the decisions. There are other conditions in Podkarpacie, others in Pomerania. What are we gonna do? It was bad, so one measure at a time... Space management is an important element here. Improving the quality of turbines and protecting the quality of life around wind farms would be a good course of action, while this law, as they say in analysis, will completely kill wind energy in Poland. I think that's what this is about. So thank you very much. I hope that at least some people will take note of what concerns the quality of the energy produced. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u309	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u310	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Well, I didn't think we were gonna fight windmills in the Senate, too, and it turns out we're fighting harder and harder. Mr. Czerwinski, of course, here... I told you, Senator, what happened at the committee meeting. If you want an academic lecture on the flaws and advantages of windmills, of course. I can do this right now, I just don't know if the marshal will agree and give me some time, but I can say about their flaws and virtues. One key issue: wind energy is inexhaustible. That's where you start. Coal. I was talking about brown coal. There are big problems and it will be harder and harder to build a brown coal discovery anywhere in Poland, you will see what the protests will be, and this will be discussed here in this House and I will remind you then, Senator. Mr. Senator, these windmills are wretching the landscape. And smoking chimneys don't? Well, let's not overreact. Sure, if there's a lot of windmills... But this is a farm. in a certain place, so you have to get used to it. In other countries, they've gotten used to it, and they don't have a problem. As far as coal is concerned, I could give you examples. Carbon dust. Have you heard of it? The miners are mining coal, that's what energy is made of. [[Mr. Senator, the advantages of the windmills. Don't get off the subject.]] We can discuss this for a long time, but I don't want to discuss it with you... [[Mr. Senator, maybe you need to...]] [[Mr. Senator!]] ...because we'd have to for a long time... [[Mr. Senator, please don't argue with Senator Czerwinski, just let Senator Czerwinski speak.]] [[Of course.]] Oh, very good. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say a few words about this because the hour is late, 10 p.m. He's coming. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, if this law is adopted, as it is currently being proposed, then I can say it with all determination. This will be the end of wind energy in Poland. Because all the regulations, all the distances, the planning, the study, etc... Well, nothing new is gonna happen. So if we don't want wind energy in Poland, then okay, this bill is really leading to it. In order not to do so, there are amendments tabled. They can still save this bill, in my opinion, if any amendments were made. I'll just mention two major amendments. The first concerns this matter of distance. There's an amendment that says there's five times and more instead of ten times. Let the municipalities decide more about this. We recently discussed because there was a military bill, that two degrees or more. Remember, you can be a sergeant and take the position of major or colonel because two degrees plus more. The same is true here: and more. If the municipality comes to the conclusion that there is going to be more, because it is going to make a plan, then let it set more, but let's not block it by this minimum distance. And this is the first fundamental issue that should be improved if we would like this law not to block the development of energy in Poland. And the second thing is, of course, this surprise to investors who have invested, they have taken loans, and today they are told that this tax will therefore increase several times. I understand that we want to make a difference, and okay, but if anything, please, let it be about the new installations that will be built, the new windmills, wind power plants. Then someone will consciously make a decision, because he'll know it, he'll make a business plan, and he'll come out of it, that it's worth it or it's not worth it, and he'll take it into account. But today, those who have taken credit are surprised at this activity, because it turns out that they will have to pay several times the tax, so it will become inefficient to them. I do not want to talk about all the other amendments, but I believe that these two fundamental amendments are those which can lead to the fact that we will not end up with wind power plants in Poland. Otherwise, if we do not introduce these amendments, it will be the end of energy. We're gonna finish... We have three and a half more years ahead of us, so of course I'll try my best. to remind you, in two years' time, in three years' time, as I will remind you that the Constitutional Tribunal's handling of cases in the order of applications is the end, period, there is no. I'll remind you of that, I'll remind you in a year and a half, because you see what's going on. If there is a possibility, it can be improved, it needs to be improved. If not, then the matter is clear. If these amendments are not made, I will certainly vote against, and if others vote against, then each of you will decide that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u311	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Waldemar the Member State. [[I cut it by half, so...]] Mr. Senator, you have a full five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u312	I want to tell you about the distances you're sneaking around here. In Denmark this distance is 4 times the height measured from the highest point, in Germany in various places is from 550 m to 850 m in the south, in Bremen is from 200 m to 500 m, in Schleswig-Holstein is 300 m from the areas where 1 to 4 houses are located, and 500 m from the rural areas, in Hamburg from 300 m to 500 m, and in some places from 200 m to 500 m, so you can close it as you want. Poland committed to 19.13% by 2020 the electricity consumed will come from RES. Failure to fulfil this obligation will mean paying for the so-called. statistical transfers of renewable energy from countries with surplus. The obligation to use green energy in 2020 is 34Wh. The analysis shows that this target will not be met with the current RES power increase and will be missing at least 4.2TWh. In this situation statistical transfers will cost Poland at least PLN 2.5 billion. In order to meet the renewable energy target by 2020, it is still necessary to build wind farms with a total capacity of at least 1500 MW. Such an increase will bring benefits. Only in 2015, wind power plants produced 10Wh of electricity. As a result, more than 8 million t of CO2 emissions have been reduced in Poland compared to a situation where this amount of energy would not be produced by conventional power plants. Since 2006, over 26 million CO2 emissions have been avoided through wind farms. According to estimates, if we manage to close the gap in RES production thanks to the currently installed and new wind farms, in the years 2016 and 2020 Poland in total will avoid emissions of more than 51 million t CO2. Poland has PLN 359.7 billion of EU cohesion policy to use for the 2014-2020 period. Within this amount, the total Union funding for renewable energy sources is to be around PLN 5.2 billion. And that's what the fight is about, and that's what the gas lobby and the photovoltaic lobby are fighting for. It's like if you want to know why you're fighting windmills. I'd like to say I got a couple hundred letters in my office. I can bring them to the next meeting. From all over Poland with requests to intervene from the municipal authorities for support against this law. I even got a letter, here I commend myself, from BOŚ, from our Polish bank, in which the president writes that the introduction of the law by the Sejm, etc., the change in the definition of wind power plants, etc., the aim, I understand, is to subject the entire construction of wind towers to greater supervision. It's cost-effective. The introduction of a new definition of buildings in the proposed law in wind power investments will result in a higher property tax being charged. And now it's what they're asking for. Thus, the proposed solutions pose a risk of falling for many projects, including in the first place smaller investments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me. ...On the Polish investors in this segment, simultaneously creating significant problems for the Bank of Environmental Protection, and not without affecting the security of NFOŚiGW funds. So they're already predicting bank bankruptcy because it won't be paid... [[Why? They didn't secure the loans?]] Both investments have been involved in financing RES projects, with a clearly defined mission to support green projects. In addition, they stress that, in accordance with the settled case law of the Supreme Administrative Court, the court maintained this. Maybe I won't read that anymore. One of the first municipalities to locate the wind farm was Kobylnica near Słupska. Today, the budget is enriched annually by about PLN 4 million thanks to turbines. Public opinion polls show that Poles support wind power plants. According to a market research centre survey carried out in 2015, if Poles had the possibility to choose a power plant to power their homes into electricity, 72% would have been the case. It would have chosen a wind farm. As a curiosity, this is what Andrzej Duda said to the voters. One of the first municipalities to locate a wind farm... Sorry, I've read that before. Margonin thanks to the construction of 2 wind farms disappeared from the list of poorer municipalities of Wielkopolska voivodship supported by the state. Every year over PLN 5 million of tax is paid to the government budget. Convincing that wind energy subsidies are supposedly high is a myth. Case-Advisor's analysis shows that between 2010 and 2013 support for hard coal mining amounted to PLN 22 billion. Direct support for RES by half 10,3 billion, and really four times less than for coal mining, if from the total amount spent on RES we deduct PLN 4.9 million for coal-burning subsidies together with biomass in system power plants or for subsidies to old depreciated hydropower plants. On average, the municipalities in which wind farms are located receive additional revenue from the budget by 2015 at 5,5%. On average, each 1 MW of capacity in wind farms means tax revenues for municipalities at the level of over PLN 50 thousand. [[Thank you, Senator. Time exceeded.]] Just one more sentence, I'll finish... [[Go ahead and finish it.]] The tax revenue for the government and local government sector with the capacity installed in wind farms of 5300 MW amounts to a total of over PLN 620 million. The beneficiary is also several thousand people who lease their parcels, where turbines and electrical infrastructure are located, access roads. The average rental income for 1 turbine is PLN 15 thousand. Predicted... I'm almost done. The expected and regulated income of the municipality over a period of at least 25 years of operation of the wind farm is often a unique opportunity for local authorities to collect their own contribution needed to benefit from EU funds, and in the future it will allow local authorities to implement a number of long-term investments and further improve their quality of life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u313	Thank you, Senator. And I will now ask the floor of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u314	Thank you. I'm not going to argue with my predecessors, because the subject of this bill is not, as my colleague here rightly pointed out... these pros were not actually mentioned. We have been threatened with responsibility to the European Union, with penalties that will await us with lost profits. There was talk of social joy, which accompanied the construction of wind power plants, about sensors that prevent the burning of turbines, the tearing off of shovels, the tearing off of these ice lumps, which are then thrown into space... I was talking about YouTube here because the parties don't need scientific research... People just register these situations. If the senator wanted to take a look, I'd show you... Mr. Senator, these are the pages that illustrate the fires. These are fires of German wind power plants, quite meticulously recorded by Germans. Anyone who wants to know about this will be able to assess whether it is a small, accidental case, whether it is a threat to the environment and the environment. This law will be implemented in principle into a legislative vacuum and will end this unparalleled eldorado, ending the situation in which such investments could be implemented in principle under any conditions. What did this lead to? The allegations that have been made by the Supreme Board of Control, we know because we read these reports. We know how powerless the previous governments were. The previous government was Apparently very, very close to the introduction of such a law, but he did not introduce it, he did not introduce these restrictions. That there is, and that there was pressure from the European Union, so that we could force, very much at the expense of promoting some energy... It was, it was, and it's still gonna be. Senator, not up to 20% Poland has committed, but up to 15% And if you're talking about the investment she was, the cheap or the expensive... This investment, which you mentioned, is stated in the public information that it cost EUR 166 million It's about Margonin. This is the cost of this investment. Whether it's cheap, in your opinion, or expensive, it's a matter of information and parameters. I would very much like, already cutting myself off a little bit from going into discourse, to thank all those who contributed to the fact that in this wilderness, the lawlessness that has existed so far, there have been records, however regulating them, and to thank you for this effort... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Why are you bothering me?]] [[Voices from the room: Quiet.]] [[Mr. Senator Rooster, I'm driving.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] I'd like to thank all those who... [[Mr. Senator, the senators, please calm down. Senator Pekkis has a voice.]] Thank you very much. Comparing Poland to other Western European countries makes no sense. As we look at what was in Denmark, I will only briefly ask: where was the energy industry in Denmark in the 1970s? Where did Denmark get the energy then? [[She was importing.]] Denmark imported electricity, did not have its own resources. I repeat, she imported. And therefore she could afford some choice of environment, e.g. for windmills. Now Denmark, because it has other neighbours than Poland and has the right to... Denmark has been implementing international agreements for several decades and within a large region, within several countries it is implementing an energy exchange. And it's not in Poland. With whom do we have an energy exchange? Russia? With the Germans? On what terms? Are we supposed to be dependent on German energy supplies? These are the reasons why it is very important in all Polish energy to strive to define a clear, basic criterion for development And this development criterion for today is coal. It's not true that God is rolling out of the chimneys. He knows how many... [[The base of coal...]] Politely, please... If I could continue like this, Senator. Okay? That's the way it is today... [[Mr. Senator, don't pay any attention to any voices in the room, I'm keeping order.]] For today's coal, because we just have coal in the country, that it is our property, is the basis for the functioning of energy. You can't change it by snapping your fingers because it's a giant product that has a lot of inertia. Sure, we'd like to have one. The nuclear energy I support, because we're still a country... [[It's four times more expensive...]] And as a country, we're... [[Four times more expensive...]] You're talking nonsense, but it's because you don't have information. [[Got it. The Professor from Spruce at the conference...]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I'm paying your attention to Senator B Member of the Union. Don't comment. There you go.]] It's quite difficult, because it's always throwing me off balance... [[No, no, don't pay attention, I'm watching it.]] Okay, I'm sorry. This is the direction we have, the path from which we cannot go down for financial reasons, unless we want to drive our society into the issues of huge electricity charges. If any of you want to do this, raise your hand and do it. [[It's more expensive...]] However, the energy we are generating today is relatively cheap, one of the cheapest in Europe, precisely because we produce it from our own fuel using methods that Europe considers to be clean. If you think that when you produce wind power plants... What are the propellers of wind power stations made of? Not out of wood. They're not made of wood. They are made from composites. The basic component of the composite is polyester resin or other. Do you think that the production of resins is chemically clean for the environment? Do you think that this is not accompanied by environmental poisoning, that the chemistry that accompanies it is... [[It's everywhere, everywhere.]] These are the arguments that have been put forward here, and they seem to me to be Of course there are always opponents who have a different opinion, and they have the right to do so. It is clear that the direction of development that has been temporarily imposed on us from the outside is a misdirection. I am already overlooking the quality of this energy and the price that we are forced to pay for it, despite its randomness and chaos, despite the failure to contract specific, highly quantified volumes that indicate the country's demand, and despite this It hasn't been said yet. That from 100 kW at the wind power plant we are able to achieve only about 20% in the year, i.e. 20 kW. It's just how efficient it is. The highest efficiency in California is 24% of 100 kW. This is the efficiency of wind power plants. It's not pure energy, because the cost of creating it and installing it is enormous. The giant problem that the society has not been told about, which has led it into, is the question of these pears. It's in quotes. They're concreted in the fields. If the owner takes the wind power plant and transfers it to other countries Where there are more favourable conditions, an eldorado where there are no rules and can be done It will leave to farmers who have decided to install such a farm in the fields, giant pears from reinforced concrete. [[A foot and a half high...]] If you're talking about the heights you're talking about, and you're going to put it on a subway and a half, that means you don't understand or feel... [[You can grow land there. A foot and a half below the layer...]] But I have a favor to ask, I would... [[Calm down, please. Mr. Senator, really... don't bother your colleague.]] I'd like to end by saying that... [[He's got a few more minutes. Let's let him finish. Let him finish.]] It's a rule... Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen. It's a rule that on... [[To make him happy.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] In line with the principle, the experts who attended the committee's meeting, including the Committee on Infrastructure, had the opportunity to comment. And to be honest, the way it was conducted at the committee meeting under the honorable leadership, very efficient Mr. Staszek, shows that these experts, after technical information, expert information presented by the Minister and by specialists... After that, there was just no discussion. And it must be said to ourselves that if we bump into the question of belief with the question of knowledge, then there is simply no discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. I'm not taking any more time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u315	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. And please take the floor of Senator Krystian Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought I'd be the last, and I basically prepared some sort of summary. But the discussion here is still alive and a few more people are going to take the floor. First of all, renewable energy sources are not just wind energy, which I would like to draw attention to, but only this is how this energy is identified here in today's debate. It's also biomass, it's water or sewage. Last week, the Environment Committee meeting said how much energy can be obtained in the treatment of waste water. I am moving by car to every Senate meeting and so halfway to Warsaw, near Bełchatów, I see an external dump of mines with beautiful windmills. It's a wonderful windmill farm. And let me tell you, this farm doesn't bother me at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, this bill we're debating today doesn't bother me. I'll tell you more: I even like her. Why? First of all, because it takes into account what was said here, or social expectations. I'm getting one of those here because I've already got sclerosis, and I've got too much to do this week... So the bill takes into account social expectations. It also protects our health. It was mentioned here about the State Hygiene Plant attestations, which indicated a negative impact, either by infrasound or, to a wider extent, by sounds issued by windmills. It also affects the value of the landscape, which may not be realized by everyone. The landscape we pride ourselves on, the Polish landscape, the specific one, is also a value that should be respected, ladies and gentlemen. Now a few words to Senator Flork about the question of who's subsidizing who, whether wind energy is subsidizing this energy less efficient, carbon, or is it the other way around. Well, without a doubt, this inefficient coal-based energy is used to subsidize wind energy. They didn't say here today... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We weren't talking about a certain... I'll explain why. Senator Komarnicki was a participant in the energy meeting where these issues were discussed. Namely, everyone realizes that wind energy is unpredictable. We don't know when, what time, etc. So, in order for wind energy to function, there must be classical energy in readiness, because until we learn to store, store energy, there is no question of any efficiency. And it was the energyists, the owners and the managers of the power plants who pointed out that they had to keep ready, because at any time, they could run out of energy in this network. And you know what else I'm gonna tell you? In order to maintain their readiness, i.e. as if they were producing energy, but do not produce energy, no one takes it away from them. These are costs, and no one pays them back. I want to end up with this anecdote. Well, grandson and grandpa went for a walk in the field. The grandson sees I'm not talking about myself, it's not autobiographical, although I'm going out with my granddaughter. The windmill. He says, "Grandpa, what is this?" He said, "This is a windmill." What's the windmill for? Well, you know, granddaughter, when the wind blows, this windmill spins and produces energy, then you can light up your room with a light, then you can read it. Yeah, 'cause the coal's sunburned. It's like that, by the way. And one more note on the ending. Because there was also a discussion about the effects of these rays. Well, there's one thing you can say for sure. That this radius will never have a negative value. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u317	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It'll be polemic for five minutes. Well, if you don't have arguments in the discussion, you start using eristic arguments, which, for example. It's absurd. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't talk about earthworms, I didn't even mention the landscape, although this is an important element in wind energy. These windmills are really ruining the landscape. But I really cannot find a causal link, Mr. Senator Czarnobaj, between the construction of windmills and burning in furnaces in Krakow waste. Perhaps there is one. You'll try to explain it to us. [[Voice from the room: It's simple.]] And I learned that wind energy for one reason is beneficial. Because it's renewable. That's what I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, just because it's called green doesn't mean it's green. It doesn't mean that she doesn't have a bad effect on nature, on the environment. It's just a name. You can call it orange-red and it'll be the same effect. You know, we get caught up in that kind of thing sometimes. We're the ones who are trying to bring into our minds those environments that want this energy to be promoted. It's true. But it's worth talking about renewal. Maybe that's what I'm gonna say, throwing a bridge to the opponents of this bill. We just don't need wind energy. Sometimes it's just harmful to the system. But what else are renewable energies or renewable forms of production that could actually be effective under our conditions. A question about geothermals. We haven't heard that. The question of energy related to flowing waters. Buildings that are created at the same time can be used for retention, for flood protection. Those are real questions. Under Polish conditions renewable energy will never replace coal energy. Those who think otherwise are simply misleading. He won't, and luckily, he doesn't have to. Like I said, I wanted to ask the Minister of Energy, but he's not here anymore, which... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Tomasz Żuchowski: It is.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: I am, I am.]] Oh, great. If only you would allow the marshal... [[No, Mr. Senator, the time for questions is over.]] Okay... [[But ask yourself and...]] On another occasion, and I'll put the question to you. [[Good.]] ...which types of renewable energy in Poland, under our conditions, are the most efficient, cheapest and which should be forward-looking for us. I'm not talking about coal energy, because it's a coal-based one. We will not replace, not only in electricity generation, but also in fuel issues, in general, energy. If I can get an answer to that question from the Minister in writing, I would appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u319	All right. Thank you very much, Senator. And I will now ask the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! Dear colleagues, As part of the discussion of this law, there were many themes, very different areas, sometimes very extreme, both ways. Why did my fellow Members decide to bring this bill to the Sejm? It would be worth remembering here. There were, like, three reasons. The first is the uncontrolled development of wind power plants, building them in very random places. The result was the second element, social protests, as has already been mentioned here. Almost everywhere they wanted to build wind power plants, these protests were. Reasonable, less justified... Yeah, but if people are protesting and don't want to have this kind of installation in the neighborhood, that's something that needs to be taken into account. And the third element or third reason why this law is, is a mix of the first two reasons, namely the NIK report, which showed on the one hand these social concerns and protests, and on the other hand unfortunately pathologies, which occur in the construction or investment plans. They were of course discussed here, they are very much detailed in the NIK reports. We know if someone can benefit from it, because on its site we will build a windmill, and preferably an entire windmill farm, so someone gets very rich. Usually, at a large percentage, they were the families of local government officials. And the second aspect of these irregularities is the introduction of such, in quotes, donations to the commune. Whether he can build a field or build a road... Of course, it's a certain value, but, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago, we cut off some kind of pathology in the light of the local cameras. There were benefits, too, but we thought it wasn't about that. And so were the investors who built wind power plants who were willing to invest in some things that were missing in the municipalities, but it was always at the expense of something. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this law change? She changes these three elements. Two elements are very clear and very important, the third element is debatable. The first element introduces the principle of cleaning up plans. So you can't build wind farms where there's no zoning plans. So far, it has also been possible that, where there were no plans, such investments were implemented on the basis of construction conditions. Everyone who knows a little bit about what it's all about... Unfortunately, it is known that in Poland a large part of the municipalities do not have spatial planning plans. And there, on the basis of the construction conditions, permissions for investments are granted. Today we eliminate this road with this bill. But we know that we want plans that clearly define a certain spatial order in the municipality to be adopted by the municipalities. And then, in line with these plans, on the basis of certain provisions, such investments can be implemented. And the second element that this law introduces is, of course, a matter of distance. This 10 times... Of course, in different countries this is defined differently. The Act introduces one more element, which here Senator Florek raised, namely a little bit differently. defines what a wind power plant is. And there is something that, I say, is not directly the objective of the applicants, namely the change in the tax system. This can, as a result, introduce... and not only can it introduce, but it will certainly introduce a slightly different value in terms of real estate tax charges. What I'm saying is the three main consequences. Of course, there are even more minor things. Let me say something else in the context of these three issues. The issues of these distances, plans and tax-related issues What other matters are being carried out here. Ladies and gentlemen, if... Maybe it's different. Do we need RES? Of course we need RES. Do we need wind power? Well, we need it. We need to have this element 15% by 2020 , we have to introduce these 15% in the mix . We have today, as far as I know. Mr. Minister is here, he controls it more. I think it's 12.5%. , so we are very little short of achieving the minimum levels to which we have committed ourselves as a result of certain international commitments. Discussing whether it's right or wrong... I have some doubts about it myself. But these arrangements are valid for us. Now wind power plants are a very important element of this mix, to which we have committed ourselves. It is not true, ladies and gentlemen, that when we introduce this law, the current power plants will suddenly disappear. But it will undoubtedly be very difficult to build new wind farms. Here's an element I was also talking about at the committee meeting, and here's what I'm going to say. Namely, if this change of taxation would cause some investors to try to liquidate wind power plants, it would be a problem. But I think that the Ministry will analyze this on an ongoing basis and if there were such threats, and there would be no dynamic development of other sources within RES, whether it's photovoltaics or hydropower plants. It's... That's what I'm gonna say, monitor. If the current wind farms are maintained, I think we'll be able to get to these 15% without a problem. . Of course, the question is whether other agreements will not continue to increase such shares of renewable energy sources. There's probably gonna be pressure. And here is the task for the government to oppose it, because certainly in Poland for a very, very long time coal-fired power plants, whether brown or stone-based, will be, as colleagues have repeatedly said, an essential element of energy security. We're not gonna change the whole sector, and as reality has shown, the construction of nuclear power plants is moving away into an indeterminate future. Friends from the Platform, so far no success, no results except that a few people made a great profit working in dubious companies It just doesn't exist. Yes? [[You guys do the jobs.]] You know, Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Senator, don't argue. Go ahead.]] As far as nuclear power plants are concerned, of course, we need a temporary perspective... We'll see. So far, you've tried it, and it didn't work out. We're clear that we're not pulling out of coal. Mrs. Beata Szydło's government is trying to defend coal, because we have to... [[Yeah, 100 more years.]] Yeah, 'cause there's mines, 'cause we got coal heaps. [[Yeah, we have to, and that's it.]] And there's nothing we can do about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to extend, because there are still others willing to speak, but only two more points. Everywhere you want to build wind power stations, there are massive social protests. Believe me, I haven't met with such an investment in wind power plants that there would be no protest against. Of course, as a result of the various actions of the local government... Well, in exchange for building roads, pitches... These protests are trying to sound out. I always ask such a question to fans of wind power plants: would you like to live around such power plants? [[But we do!]] And when you ask a question like that, everyone says, well, let those power plants be, but not under my house. And in the light of these previous regulations, unfortunately, it was possible to put such a wind power plant underneath... [[What are you...]] Well, Mr. Senator, it's only today that we're making these regulations... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...about the distances in this bill and they guarantee that no one will put such a wind power plant under anyone's nose. If I had a building site where I'd be built a wind power plant or lease land, I'd probably make a living business. Well, maybe not the business of life, but I'd have a long-term sure income. But the neighbors, you know, they're not gonna be happy about this... [[That's why they're protesting.]] Mr. Senator, so... [[Selfless jealousy...]] [[Senators, it's pretty late, we're all tired...]] This bill, Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Let me finish. This bill, of course, causes controversy, but let the senators in the pulpit speak. There you go, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. Envy can be about things, Mr. Senator, and there's probably an element of envy here, too. Today we are introducing the need for spatial planning, we are introducing these minimum distances, and if someone wants to build a power plant according to these new conditions, even a jealous neighbor will not block it. And to this day, if somebody made a deal with the local authorities and the mayor or the mayor saw a deal in it, he could, so to speak, introduce a wind power plant like this... And it was not that only one or two neighbors were dissatisfied, but often the whole community was dissatisfied. Mr. Senator, they will choose, they won't choose... Various examples can be given here. After all, when local governments are shutting down schools, these uncles, mayors are putting themselves in jeopardy, and yet these schools are being shut down. And so, unfortunately, despite the social protests, wind power plants are being built, although most people do not want it. Ladies and gentlemen, last sentence, concluding. This law is primarily intended to secure the residents of the municipalities. The idea is that wind power plants should not be built in an uncontrolled way, unwanted by them in close proximity. And if the wind power plants are sufficiently remote, they will be created. There's no need for such investments to rebel. But I'm sure by passing this bill, we'll make life very, very difficult... And what the Minister was talking about... We have such a landscape and such urbanization of the country, very scattered that these places will actually not be much. I agree with the senator here. Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's gonna be so hard because we have such a scattered structure. And that's why so many people want to protect this bill. It serves only one purpose Just so these power plants aren't built forcefully where the local community doesn't want them. That was the idea of creating this bill. Not to hurt someone so they don't get paid. Everyone has the right to enter into business, whatever they want, everyone has the right to rent and lease land. Yeah, but let's remember, these are investments that affect a particular neighborhood. They're acting in a very cumbersome way. There is no point in protecting all those people for whom such a neighborhood is burdensome, according to which such investments are carried out very often on strength. I say strength in the sense: contrary to agreement... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like you to stop slowly.]] ...the local community. The point is to make it harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u321	Thank you very much. [[Under current regulations, no one will build...]] Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia. [[You're still Senator Komarnicki.]] No, I'm sorry. [[Yes, Komarnicki Władysław.]] [[Put it on the record.]] I apologize to Senator Cichoń, because you will now speak to Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for not missing me. I'm already scared that you took my voice. Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! You've noticed that I speak very rarely, but where we talk about business, after a 27-year internship as an entrepreneur... I figured that there was a plarum playing in this case, and we had to take the floor. I didn't want to speak at first, then I put him on the record, and then I withdrew because two senators inspired me. Senator Professor. Probie inspired me. And I was very inspired by Senator Bonkowski. I must say that I have seen such a moment, that it begins to overcome reason in this Chamber, not only reason, but in this Chamber is beginning to win the economic bill and, what is most important, defending Polish entrepreneurs. I firmly believe that tomorrow or Friday these amendments will find their place. 'Cause I see, ladies and gentlemen, at your place in PiS, it's beginning to decide wisdom and reason. You're wondering. This is a big deal, and I thank you very much for that today. [[I've always been like this.]] I took the liberty of referring to your speech, Senator. Dear Senators, I apologize for this bitter introduction, but there are moments when I'm losing hope that we can make it. Although today is the first swallow To work in this term of office. We really need to realise that the fate of our citizens depends to a large extent on us and on our work. There isn't this young man who told us with such passion... I'm from Opole myself. I wanted to tell him that I partially agree with him about the bill itself, that for many years we had this situation... On the one hand, old technologies came into the country, old windmills, which were located in scandalous places. Tell your senator friend that I agree with him on this issue and that I agree with him in the meantime. And there's no question we'll find such places in the country today. But on the other hand, as an entrepreneur, I say that we have a well growing branch of industry and very large investments in Poland. We're already 50% producer of this technology, 50% producer of this technology. And here we agree, because we as entrepreneurs base our calculations and on facts, that's pure money. More than 20% of this is the share of Polish state-owned energy companies, such as PGE and, Professor, Energa. Speaking of the future of this industry, we need to take these variables into account. That is why today we must bear in mind the interests of the country, the welfare of Polish entrepreneurs and seek balance in the final records so that we do not fire the child with a bath and, colloquially speaking, did not murder Polish investments in this segment, as I said at the beginning. What does the legislator offer us? An introduction of the principle that the distance of the windmill from residential buildings is to be at least ten times the height of the windmill with the rotor blades and to cover the existing and planned wind installations with extremely high loads due to the increase of the property tax rate and the UDT fee; I remind you that this is the Technical Supervision Office. This record will de facto collapse as far as the wind farm market is concerned. Look, this innocent record... It's nobody else but your Prime Minister Morawiecki. Maybe it's ours, because he's the prime minister. He said recently, I quote that renewable energy sources are the future and that we should invest in them. And you are de facto killing this possibility. So what's the project for? Ladies and gentlemen, the Senators, the bankruptcy of companies, the lack of long-term credibility for investors who, whatever they may say, invested hundreds of thousands, millions of euros in Poland, people who, for objective reasons, will lose their jobs, because companies that exist will be bankrupt during the duration of this law, and companies that could arise and we should strive for them to be created, simply never in the period of such law... Ordinary, basic economic and economic rights from which the state in this project abstracts... I would like to present some data to illustrate the whole situation. I'm gonna make this short so I don't get bored. In the wind energy sector, millions of zlotys were invested. It's huge, because we're the ones who invited them. We created the conditions for them, we said: come, teach us, we want to learn to invest ourselves. I don't think I have to tell you how much it has affected CIT, PIT... Of course, the state took huge taxes. Huge taxes. To be honest, these are huge sums a year. In this group, we must remind you that windmills do not act on coal and do not emit CO2. As a result, Poland is making a crazy use of the fact that almost 26 000 t of CO2 has been avoided by wind farms since 2006. What's more... [[Millions.]] Millions, I'm sorry. Moreover, I have also not met with any opinion of the applicant... In 2014 thousands of people worked for energy in Poland... [[Twenty-two thousand.]] We're only wrong about 500, congratulations, Senator. [[And $40,000 hasn't been here yet.]] The construction of one wind farm on land with a capacity of 10 MW is linked to the creation of It's so fancy. 114 jobs. 114 jobs. Who among you creates jobs knows how hard it is to create jobs today. According to analyses of the Warsaw Institute of Economic Studies, and these are concrete calculations, in 2030 in the scenario of dynamic development of wind energy in Poland this sector will create 42 thousand jobs. Would you like to provide us with an analysis on how to eliminate these jobs? And we also need to think about what the consequences will be. There is a report by one bank only PKO BP, which speaks about a huge level of credit. I'm not authorized to talk about it today. 15% by 2020 our energy in the balance sheet must come from renewable energy sources. Today we are close to this point, but we cannot slow down the pace. Investing in photovoltaics doesn't exclude coal in biogas plants. We should invest in all of this and in new technologies in coal, because the European Union will impose penalties on us in a few years and it will be us against the wall, and it will be us as Poland. And we already have expensive energy today. We'll still have to do that, remember, pay extra. In the future, it will turn out that Germany and Sweden, our neighbours will have cheaper energy than we do, and then you will see that these questions will fall not from here, but from the street. I will also mention that by 2030 we will have to have this energy from RES over 27%. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to consider and seek a compromise between We talked about this today, and so did the senator. The social interest and the development of the industry, which may also be leading in the future. And once again, I want to thank my colleagues who have been very concerned about me, and I particularly want to thank the two gentlemen of the PiS who understand this problem... [[And all the rest...]] ...and they speak with almost one voice. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u323	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It wasn't a kiss of death...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] Senator Zbigniew Silence. [[Excuse me, sir. The senator asked me a question. I had to answer it.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I believe that this bill was needed to solve a certain bumpy problem, among others. illustrated in a very graphical and shocking way in the NIK report, which indicated specific Unfortunately, it is necessary here to use such a trivial definition of the unhonorable nature of the construction of these wind power plants, which have become a source of lawlessness and various activities at the border of even corruption, because, for example, statistics indicate that these investors were most often the local authorities. The Regulation now enters into force Of course, you can have different kinds of reservations about it. It puts an end to this situation when there were no rules at all that would determine whether or not an investment could be created, and so it was acted in such a way that it met with huge social opposition. Now we are introducing some rules on minimum distances from housing, and rightly so. Of course, it is possible to discuss what distance it is to be, or as it is described here, it is to be ten times the height of this object, or it is to be smaller. I was personally convinced by what the Minister said, that we are taking a sort of pattern from the Bavarian solutions, in which this distance is set at ten times the height of the wind power plant. Of course, this is a minimum, because the bill provides for it. And I think that this issue has been respected by the municipalities, which can determine these distances according to local conditions, which can also be longer distances. This is only a certain minimum that has been introduced here, a minimum that fits into the solutions adopted in a number of other countries. Since you are referring here to the solutions of the Scandinavian countries in particular, I would like to emphasise the important difference between the Nordic countries and Poland. Take the population density of 1 km2 in Scandinavian countries and 1 km2 in our country. This determines that there, with less population and huge free spaces, one can afford to settle in other places than the chosen ones. And I'm not talking about the question of the life rate, where moving from one place to another, more attractive, is much easier than in our circumstances where people have no such choice because of purely economic reasons. Of course, I also share the concern of the States expressing their concerns about the financial situation of investors who may sometimes be surprised by the solutions that will be adopted. That is why I have some reservations that I would like to share, among others. as regards Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which provides that construction permits which were issued before the date of entry into force of the Act and issued on the basis of previous, other provisions, shall remain valid only if a decision on the authorisation of use is issued within 3 years of the entry into force of the Act. Well, ladies and gentlemen, to expose someone who was an investor, to addiction to future and uncertain events, which is to issue a decision in the form of permission to use... This seems to me to be taking too much risk on the part of these investors. Because as a lawyer, I can easily imagine the work of the administration, which will be deliberately directed to ensure that the decision is not made within a certain period of time. And then a man who may resent the administration for the fact that his case is conducted in a chronic manner, in addition to the consequences, that is, he is punished for what is the fault of the office, not his. Therefore, I would propose here an amendment, stating that unless, within three years of obtaining a building permit, he applied for a permit for use. I believe that then the situation is clearer, more honest and does not expose the investor to a situation which, at least for me, from a moral and legal point of view, is very questionable. That's one thing. As a lawyer, I have an objection to the article, too. 8, but this is a purely editorial issue. Namely, I believe that there was a misunderstanding here, because in the final phrase of this article the Journal of the Laws, which concerns only construction law, is mentioned here. not only about this construction law, because earlier we are talking about the law on spatial planning and development. Therefore, after the space expression, I would suggest that, as in the case of construction law, Also here indicate the Official Journal of the Laws, i.e. simply post: Official Journal of Law No 80, item 717. Then it'll be lege artis. Thank you very much. I haven't spent my time, because I think it is necessary to perform in a concrete way, and I appeal to you that your emotions do not get above the merits of the case here, because I honestly say that I am sorry to hear that when my colleagues, when speaking to each other, use epithets, they say that one or the other speaks nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be said that someone is wrong that we disagree with him, you can even say that he is wrong or wrong, but using this type of epithet, I think, is not right in our House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u325	Thank you, Senator. I'm gonna need some corrections. [[I'll pass it right over. They're on it.]] Good. You've got about 10 minutes because I'm gonna have a short speech. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Marian the Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am concerned about the provisions in the parliamentary draft law on investments in the field of wind power plants. The adoption of the law in this form will have far-reaching negative consequences, especially as regards the provisions prohibiting the location of residential buildings or residential buildings, which include a residential function, at a distance of less than ten times the height of the wind power plant. According to the article. 6 point 3 of the draft law, the obligation to respect a distance of not less than ten times the height of the wind power plant will have to be taken into account when the municipal authorities issue a decision on housing conditions for a residential building. In the opinion of the Legal Office of the Senate Chancellery to the law on investments in wind power stations, we read: "The authors of the project in the explanatory memorandum note that since 2009 the development of wind energy has been extremely dynamic in Poland. However, despite this process, the legal framework for the location, construction and operation of wind power plants has not been sufficiently formulated. The consequence of this is to locate these installations too close to residential buildings. This has led to numerous conflicts between dissatisfied residents and municipalities, because these devices emit noise, deaf to the ear ultrasounds, cause vibrations, flickering of light, can also pose a direct risk of life or health in the event of a breakdown, as well as ice of wind turbine shovels in winter. In the electoral district, which I represent, there are dozens of wind power plants located, among others. in municipalities such as Krobia, Sands, Pępowo, Miejska Górka, and so far I have not met with opposition or protests of the inhabitants, on the contrary. Many farmers would like such an investment to be built in its territory, as it benefits greatly from it. In the same way, with regard to powering the budgets of the municipalities. Many of these municipalities, where wind investment is carried out, are already pursuing the investment objectives planned also in connection with the planned revenues from these investments. This project undermines the basic interests of local communities and significantly reduces the autonomy of local authorities in deciding on the economic development of municipalities with rural areas. The law was, of course, adopted as a matter of urgency, with the exception of the government path, public consultation, stakeholder participation and without assessing the impact of this regulation. Should this be the process of working on such an important law that could stop the construction of new homes or other public utility investments? The illogicalness of the rapid work on the bill best reflects the situation in the specific municipalities of Krobia and Miejska Górka in my constituency, i.e. Leszczyński County in Wielkopolskie Voivodship. This is an area where an investment is planned, which can have very serious consequences for local communities, because a brown coal discovery is planned. The residents have been fighting this planned discovery for years, and so far they have managed to protect this place from this investment. As a result, local authorities, the municipalities of Miejska Górka and Krobia also planned the construction of wind farms in this area and they are already being built. Of course, another will not be able to arise if this law enters into force. And the protection of this deposit in connection with such a law can have many serious consequences for the inhabitants of this municipality. Therefore, the inhabitants of these 2 municipalities and surroundings are concerned that such a current government strategy, i.e. decommissioning or holding back investments in renewable energy sources, and what is in the strategy adopted by the current government, based energy on coal and brown coal, will not, however, lead to this investment. This is a serious problem in my environment. And I would like to hear from the Ministry, the Government, whether this investment, as many representatives of the PiS who appear in our territory, will never arise. Besides, I think it is also worth taking into account the assessment of the cost of energy produced from coal and renewable energy sources. The question is whether, when we calculate the unit costs of energy from classic, traditional sources and compare it with the costs of energy from renewable sources, we take into account, for example, the transition of miners from 25 years to pensions and the collection of relatively high pensions, which are a significant cost for the state budget. The question is whether these costs are included in the price. On the other hand, when we talk about protecting jobs in mining, it seems, but rather expensive places, do we take into account the chances of creating new jobs that the predecessors have already talked about? Therefore, on behalf of the inhabitants of my district, and especially those municipalities that I mentioned earlier, I am strongly opposed to voting in this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u327	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will briefly refer to a few speeches: Mr. Senator Mr. Frost, Mr. Senator Pekkis... When I listened to the arguments made by the gentlemen about why this bill was being introduced, it turned out that the main element here is that in many municipalities or in many places the law was broken, that there were groups of pressure, some lobby, that there were people who were used by certain people. So you've detected a deal, and now, in order to eliminate this agreement, you're introducing a law that will eliminate one of the important industries. Because if Senator Pekkis says there's a legal wasteland here, then... Mr. Senator, I'd like to say that according to the law in force, the council of the commune is setting a plan of development, where the windmill can be, at what distances, research must be presented, and so on. Therefore, the process from idea to execution takes at least 3, 4 years or 5 years, including complaints about decisions issued by municipal authorities, protests. If there have been any situations in the area of making decisions that were illegal... And since no one says it was, I, although I didn't read that report, have no reason to believe it wasn't. But that doesn't make any argument for introducing a law like that, which he was talking about here... Well, I don't want to praise Senator Member, because it's about to be said here... But he showed that in the context of the distances indicated it would be the most restrictive law, one of the most restrictive, Professor, in Europe. Well, sir, the senator has a briefing. Please give it to the professor. Do not make such an argument here that somewhere there Kowalski did something wrong and that is why a law is being made for the whole of Poland or that, say, somewhere the governor did something after the acquaintance, that is why for the whole Poland a law is made. Well, that's not philosophy in terms of state. This is more of a category according to Sherlock Holmes, tracking the individual case of a breach of law. Now just one sentence for Senator Czerwinski. Senator, I would like to say once again, in my logic, not always accepted by you, that I personally believe that every green energy produced in Poland is much healthier than energy produced from coal. And we can argue about that, but that's my view based on knowledge, on what I read. And I read with understanding. . about the impact on the human body of the production of particular types of energy. And now just two more words about social opposition. Of course, one of the most important elements of creating wind farms is that there is also discussion, opinions: here wrong, here too far... So the local community is actively involved in lawmaking, including by protesting. That's why there's something called discussion, dispute, conversation. Well, of course not everyone will be happy. But if, as blindly as some states here, raising this issue, treat it so that social opposition is a sacred thing, then... I'm just going to give you two examples of history. When the industrial revolution was introduced in the world in Europe, there was also a general opposition to the introduction of machinery for production. It was a huge opposition, and yet it was introduced. ♪ And just a little while ago ♪ In my current history, I remember some politicians doing it, largely from the Solidarity Election Action, and later from Law and Justice, there were protests against the introduction of anti-industrial shops, galleries, etc. But there's just some processes that can't be stopped, and you just have to accept that the energy produced from coal. I mean, something you love, and I get it. It's an energy that needs to be replenished, but I don't know what percentage it's going to be. It must be placed on high technical requirements in the production of green energy, but also on high requirements for black energy. And these must be things that change together in Poland. And the last sentence. - on the economic importance and the development of the branches. Today they are no longer such technologies, such devices as they were the first to reach Poland. Now the state-of-the-art technologies go to Poland And that's the first thing. But there was also a whole branch of industry. Mr. Marshal and I come from Pomerania and we know that in the shipbuilding areas of Gdańsk Shipyard, a huge amount of products are being produced and today one of the elements of this production is windmill elements. This is something that concerns the operation of all this, i.e. the creation of an industry based on knowledge and technology at all. That's one aspect, and that's why... We are talking about the fact that we should not introduce an element of protection of citizens from the effects of windmills, we are talking about the fact that not in such a mode, not at such a time, not with a 14-day vacathio legis, maybe not such distances... Ladies and gentlemen, in the latest Eurostat report, the following is mentioned. So far, in the gross domestic product statements quarter to quarter for many, many years We have been at the top of the European Union for at least 15 years, but in the last quarter we are with Hungary and with Greece in the first three from the end. We have the biggest drop in investment in this quarter in 27 years. I hope this is the only one in a quarter that's not gonna happen anymore. And what arguments do those who decide whether to invest in Poland or not take into account? First of all, the argument of unpredictability And that is exactly what you want to do: to establish a new law that is to enter into force within 14 days. After all, these people have made decisions about investing for years. If we change the law, let us change it by maintaining some stability, in a certain cycle, with a sufficiently long vacathio legis, so that the entrepreneur who made the decision would not be surprised. This isn't just about whether these windmills are coming or not. You're doing three things: first of all, you're killing a branch of industry that's been developing rapidly, not only in terms of energy production, but also in terms of equipment production. Secondly, your actions will result in the opinion of Poland being: don't invest in Poland, because within 14 days the applicable law changes. [[It's like Russia.]] And the most important thing I wanted to say before Senator Komarnicki said, "As in Russia." Well, don't create such an illusion that the central authority, including the Senate, is the smartest authority that knows best and sets the best rules in Poland. Give the residents the opportunity to respond through the municipalities' councils, and if not the municipalities' councils, at least, I do not know, the seymists who will lay down certain rules on their territory. Once again, there are other conditions in Podkarpacie and others in Pomerania. And let Poles decide within their own competence how their world will be organized in their commune, district and voivodship. You've talked so much about it in the election campaign. But today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, you want to vote on how the economic world is to be organized. And the fact that it will lead to a negative opinion about Poland and the instability of our law, about mocking the law... Well, five times the tax raise... Maybe even out of decency it would be worth to establish not a 14-day, but at least a 140-day vacathio legis, even to make it look nicer. And this is an element that you completely ignore. I'm already overlooking the issue of the superiority of green energy over black energy, because here are all the supporters of black energy who believe that by the end of the world and 1 day longer we will dig, burn, dig, burn, dig, burn. In Poland there will be 300 cities on 500 classified in Europe, in which parameters, so to speak, weather will be one of the most adverse for life... [[It's a living thing.]] The drizzle is in the first place. [[There's no mines there.]] 300 cities in Poland. I really ask you to reflect also on economic development and the associated stability of the law. I've always hoped the Senate was the last institution to lay hands on the law on my knee. Meanwhile, now in 14 days, with negative opinions of all organizations, etc., etc... That's why I'm asking my colleagues in Law and Justice... We will vote in favour of the law if we have time to think about it, let's talk about it seriously, let's look at the proposals regarding distance, deadline for introduction, etc., etc. Do not do this on the same basis as in the Constitutional Court Act, the Police Act, the Public Prosecutor's Office, etc. Yeah, I can see that's the fashion. Please, I beg you, do not make such a law for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u329	Thank you, Senator. I thought I'd be the last, but you still signed up for the senator. High Izbo! It is clear to me that the government is pointing to the direction of energy policy. Because this is a government law, implemented by Members to avoid inter-ministerial consultations to avoid public consultation. This is another government bill, which is a parliamentary law. I don't make a plea out of it, but it would be better if a law that is obviously controversial... It is not that the views of the two political groups are contradicted, because the difference of opinion is also in the same groups. This disagreement is not political. It is of a substantive nature. I repeat, this bill indicates what the PiS government will use for its energy policy. Earlier, we had a decision on the basis of which the money of energy companies was supported by the mining industry, for mines. I'll figure it out together. I'm not going to say what the consequences for these energy companies will be and how these energy companies were forced to... The previous government couldn't do it. The present did it quickly and efficiently. But this will have serious consequences for the health of these energy companies and for the cost of energy. It's clear to me that the bill we're investigating marks the end of wind investments on land. There will be opportunities at sea, somewhere after 2020. These are much bigger investments. Investments on land will be completed. The possibilities of such investments will be minimal, this law will even prevent such investments. What does that mean? That means the renewable energy from the wind that we have the most... There will be no increase in these investments, no possibility of obtaining wind energy. If anyone says that other renewable energy sources... Well, let's see. Rivers? We're not Scandinavian. How many hydropower plants have we built in the last 20 years? If we look at it, we'll understand... Besides, you don't have to be a specialist here. Just look at the map, see what the fall of rivers is. What are these investments like in 20 years? They're not here at all. Another thing: photovoltaics. It's not like we're the north side. A Sahara or a Southern Europe. Besides, this type of investment is occupied by land. There's no rapid development here, and there won't be. Come on, geothermals. [[Voice from the room: There it is! Toruń!]] I'm sorry, but... I thought we were going to talk about sacred geothermals in Toruń, but how many geothermal power plants are there that supply electricity? If we look at this... Well, there's biofuels, right? But in this case I also do not think that there is any breakthrough, although it seems that apart from windmills it is the most adapted to the situation in Poland. So by ending this wind investment, we're staying with coal. And that's the purpose of this bill. I understand the purpose of the bill, and that's how I read it, even though I don't agree with it. I don't agree, because I don't think it's that way, I mean. However, these renewable energy sources need to be strengthened rather than weakened. I heard here that coal power plants are necessary to maintain the possibility to activate additional power in a situation of fluctuations with wind power. Because such power plants, which can be switched on and off quite quickly and efficiently at a low cost, are gas plants, not coal plants. Gas plants may be switched on and off. So the addition must be gas plants, not coal plants. They do not complement each other because the extinction or reduction of the power of a coal power plant or the increase in that power requires a lot of money, and it cannot be done from one hour to the next. That's why I think if we're talking about a lobby, I don't see a lobby here... and if we do, it's some kind of carbon lobby, but it's just hard for me to tell the lobby. Is the government a lobbyist? No. The government has decided on energy policy. What's next? Will there be a nuclear power plant? If we are looking at and talking about the protests about the wind power plant, we need to know what the voices of opposition are and what resistance is there against the nuclear power plant. Dear Senators, it is wrong that this law was not consulted, that it was not normally procedated, that it was not a government law, because we would have more time to consult and reflect. I'm just gonna admit that when it comes to energy, I started tutoring 3 years ago and it kind of helps me understand these issues, because these are really quite complicated relationships and complicated things that are so difficult to understand from the course. Thank you very much. I'd like the floor of Senator Mr. Mr. Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, to be honest, didn't want to speak again, but Senator Leszek Czarnobaj said so many different things that I would try to de facto 90% only in the form of corrigendum refer to what was said. The first point is that the PiS has detected another system and is fighting it. Mr. Senator, it's a good thing you didn't read the NIK report yourself. So it wasn't Law and Justice that detected, if we were using your language, this arrangement, only the Supreme Board of Control, whose boss was or is... [[He's still here.]] ...were the prominent politician of the Civic Platform. But only two quotes from this report. Even in 1/3 of the municipalities checked, there was a situation where people making decisions about the location of windmills or their nearest families leased these areas. According to the House's information, in 90% of the municipalities controlled, local authorities' consent to the location of wind power plants depended on financing planning documentation or donations to the municipality. So don't tell me it was some kind of accident, since we're talking 90%. That's the first line. The second point is that the municipalities make decisions. It could be said that this law, setting up the possibility of setting up farms only on the basis of land-use plans, as if we were empowering the municipalities. Because if you can do it on a permit today, that's the decision of the mayor, mayor or president, not the councilmen. That's another line. As for the revolution, I will no longer say that I refer to Russia because here are some absurd comparisons. Then you said we were digging coal, digging, burning, digging, burning. Mr. Senator, that's how it's generally done. And what the coal extraction is leading to, please ask your colleagues or your colleague 'Cause I know there's one senator from the Wałbrzych district. And he will tell you what havoc is in the Wałbrzych district, more than 20 years after the liquidation of Wałbrzych Mining District. And nobody wants us to have the same situation in Silesia, where this scale will be 10 times larger. You didn't want that, and we don't want that, and no matter who's gonna rule over us, he won't want to roll it up either. Do we love coal? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of loving or not loving, but of not having an alternative today. You didn't do much to start a nuclear power plant, I mean. to run far, because you didn't even pick the location. We returned to the 1980s, which is to Żarnowiec, and it is still in the variant. So we have to stick to this carbon, because we just have nothing else. And just one more correction, to what Mr. Marshal Borusewicz said, namely, that we supposedly forced it to do so. Energy companies to invest. And you didn't? Mr. Marshal, ask Prime Minister Kopacz why there were changes in Tauron, even before the changes that had taken place there. I think maybe Mrs. Kicker. I don't know who's been there since then, because the Minister of Energy hasn't been there yet, he'll tell you. To sum up, there was also such expectation, then the government of Ewa Kopacz, that energy companies would invest in mines and create some kind of chains, from coal mining to production to distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u331	Senator Blackbay. There you go. [[A replica.]] [[Two, three minutes.]] [[But wait, the second performance was already there!]] But I'm sorry, in what mode? [[Replicas.]] [[A two-minute, three-minute replica, Mr. Marshal, according to the regulations.]] [[But it's been five minutes.]] There you go. [[It's ten minutes, five minutes, and...]] But it's supposed to be a replica, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u332	Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'll say it again. Maybe I wasn't very clear. I want you to understand, because I'd like to convince you of what I'm saying. I'm not saying there was no irregularities in the municipalities. That's where we agree. However, a few of your previous statements, a large part of your speech. We can recreate it about the fact that windmills are being built under the neighbor's window, on the border with the neighbor, and if any of us wanted to... [[That's not true.]] These are the things you've made up, and I'm sure it's not in the report. The fact that there were irregularities, I'm sure it was. And if that's what the senator said was coming to terms with, that those who decided were still renting out, they or their families, these are pathologies to be fought against. But once again, I would like to point out, in agreement with the fight against pathology, and by signing up for what you're talking about here... But that and that bill are two different things. This law carries what I said in the previous one, so to speak, the issue, which concerns Poland and the development of an important area and the procedures for its introduction, the lack of consultation 'Cause there's an emergency mode again, and so on. And what I emphasized. And it is you yourself who said that one lease, the other makes, the third does something else there, that these are the deals that you spoke of in this bleacher, and I also said that I am glad that you have detected them, but the agreements have nothing to do with... [[No...]] You quoted them from the NIK report. [[Oh, now I agree.]] They have nothing to do with the development of green energy, they have nothing to do with the development of wind energy. And we have to fight them, we agree here. And what concerns the development of the industry is a completely different issue, and this law is eliminating this part. [[Secretary Waldemar Sługocki: Piotr Florek.)]] [[Who?]] [[Peter Florek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u333	Senator Piotr Florek. [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes more.]] How much? [[Five minutes.]] Five minutes. We're already in the middle of five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u334	Mr. Marshal, I'll try to speak faster at this hour, then... I'm not gonna use five minutes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've actually read over the last few years about NIK, checks, lots of documents. That's what NIK is for, to control, to make mistakes, and to learn from it. And, ladies and gentlemen, there are always mistakes. If nobody does anything, I'm sure there are no mistakes. So NIK pointed out here specifically what to do and what to remove. And none of us deny that we have to make a good bill so that, among other things, those pathologies that have occurred do not exist. None of us deny it. These are accidents that have happened, of course. were there violations of the law? If they were, let them be addressed to the D.A.'s office. There probably wasn't much of a violation here, but there is a need to correct it. This situation should be improved so that it does not occur. We're drawing conclusions, but that doesn't mean we're going to proceed in a completely different direction. We don't fix, we don't correct, we just want to eliminate And I'm not afraid to say it. For today at all wind power plants, because according to the Act... I will not repeat to you at the moment what must be the study, what is the procedure for adopting spatial planning plans, etc., so that there will be no possibility for new wind farms to be created for the coming years. So in order to make it possible in some way not to be exactly what I say it is, this law should be further improved. And all the time, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing what can be done. We're open to discussion. There is a joint committee meeting tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. and we have a chance to speak tomorrow so that we can vote in favour of this law together and, first of all, change the law so that we do not really have the situations that have taken place, but that we do not go in a completely different direction separately, such that this energy from the wind does not exist at all. We still have a chance to think together tomorrow and make a decision. I would just call for... today's discussion is a good discussion, it's a substantive discussion, and that's what we can be happy about. But just so we don't end up having this conversation today, just like it's happened many times... I remember how I praised you once for some amendments in one bill when I was here, and then we went to a committee meeting and voted, and you voted against your own amendments that you had previously tabled. Well, that's what happened. All I'm calling for is for us to be able to improve this bill together tomorrow and so that we can vote... This is a parliamentary project, and the Minister did not have much influence on this project. So if we could improve this bill a little bit, we'd all be happy to vote... But if tomorrow this bill is voted out in this version, what it is now, without amendments, then, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to talk about. That's all I can say... I will remind you in 2 years, in 3 years' time when this energy, this very important renewable energy, because wind energy in this renewable energy, as we have said here, is actually 75% So let's not count on geothermals... there are places in Poland... Recently, the drilling was done in Konin and it turned out that there is water at 96 degrees (96 degrees) warmest in Poland. Only that thanks to this geothermal, thanks to this water it may be possible to heat Konin, because it is a large resource, but it will take some years. And there is also a brown coal power plant, the Adamów Power Plant, which will complete its operation in 2018. It's probably gonna be hard to open a new opener. A friend of mine told me about City Hill, where there's brown coal. Everyone there with great enthusiasm agreed to put as many windmills, wind power stations and put them there so that there would be no brown coal. We can't handle brown coal, we're gonna be in big trouble. Only hard coal will remain. So if we also block this wind power plant as part of the energy mix, it's difficult, I'm asking you, in a few years' time, to be self-sufficient, unless in the meantime there are new sources of energy, but we'd probably have to start praying together. But if they don't, unfortunately, we won't be self-sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u335	Thank you, Senator. I'm giving myself an extra five minutes' vote. High Izbo, of course, the NIK report is very important in this discussion, but I also have some experience as a senator with another senator, just not belonging to my club in the previous term, who was getting himself a windmill. Luckily, if he was recorded and then we listened to it, I listened to it really embarrassingly. So, of course, such situations were, but that doesn't mean that we have to cross out... that electricity sources from windmills have to be crossed out. Mr. Senator, I didn't say that the previous government didn't try to force or force power companies to support or, to put it simply, to take over the debt of the coal company companies. But it only worked with one company, with Tauron, while others refused. I know this case because I was watching her, and I was close because of Energa. At the moment... not at the moment, just recently all the companies that had previously refused, after the change of presidents after the change of government, decided to become part of the Coal Company when it comes to coal. And I would point out that resistance was due to the problems that could happen in the future. Because this energy needs a lot of resources for modernization, and also those resources for modernization need coal energy. And that's it. Right now, the PiS government is more consistent. Is that good or bad? I think for this mix, for energy... I think that as a result it is not good for coal mines, and Poles will soon feel it in their pocket. There's no more votes. Let me remind you that legislative proposals... I'm sorry. For the record, Senators Ambrozik and Ryszka have given their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Zbigniew Cichoń. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. I would ask the Minister to answer in writing the question you asked Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. It was out of the ordinary formula, but I would personally ask you to answer the senator's question. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u336	Thank you very much. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the proposals for the Law amending the Law on Public Procurement and certain other laws, print No 174, will take place tomorrow, 9 June 2016 at 8.30 a.m. in room No 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate in the Wind Power Plant Investment Act will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 176. Joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, Senate printing No 192, will take place tomorrow, i.e. 9 June 2016 at 8.00 in room No. 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-08-senat-19-1.u337	Thank you. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. I would like to remind you that we start at point 15, i.e. from the report on the activities of the Social Dialogue Council for the period from 22 October 2015 to 31 March 2016. Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 23 minutes 43]]
