ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe we can wait two more minutes until 10:35 p.m. for the other senators to come in. In parallel, the exhibition is opened... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Literally just a minute longer, and I'll start, ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. You're welcome, senators. Oh, here they are, I'm not asking. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: Act amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency and consider it as item twenty-eighth of the agenda; and the Law amending the Law on Assembly and consider it as item 29 of the agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I'll find the High House... [[Rulewski...]] Well, I don't know, maybe it's not the vote of objection, but the senator wants to speak... [[Voices from the hall: No, this is...]] If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Senator, come in. You're welcome, Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to your placing the Marshal at the 21st point, the right of assembly, on today's agenda. I would also like to ask you to reassign this... [[But that's not...]] Excuse me, please... let me speak. [[No, no, Mr. Senator... okay, but I'm telling you right now that you can't file two applications... so first there's a motion against it, and then there's another motion, because that depends on it...]] It's the same motion and referral... There's a record in the rule book, the rule book... [[Okay, one motion...]] It's more important to justify it. During yesterday's work by the joint committees in the presence of many representatives, it turned out that many institutions of law, the highest instance of law, among others. The Supreme Court has raised a number of constitutional objections. E.g. The Supreme Court has raised 12 constitutional objections. In addition, concerns were raised that the law was against international agreements signed by Poland, at least in two points. The OSCE representative present at the meeting, an organisation in which we as senators also participate, has made a fundamental reservation that it is a restriction, a reduction in democratic standards in Europe, of course in Poland... Even if you were to accept .. as is the opinion of some That we don't care about the outside world, the European world, it is, Mr. Marshal... [[I'm listening, I'm listening, with a lot of interest.]] Many NGOs took part in the proceedings, and their representatives, on behalf of these 143 organisations, of different political sections and attitudes towards the government, spoke almost unanimously against the provisions of this law. In this way, the public, represented by them, expressed its opinion that it did not agree to such a solution in terms of the fundamental right, which is the right of every citizen to attend meetings. I ask the High House to reflect deeply and accept my motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u3	Thank you very much. Are there any other voices? I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote first on my request for... I would propose that first my request to complete the agenda with a point: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Assembly, and consider it as item twenty-nine of the agenda. If this point is introduced, and even if it is not introduced, then we will vote on the senator's second motion to refer him to the committee... What committee? [[Such as were discussed, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration.]] Well... That again? Well, no, I thought it was another committee. It's not, it's not... Mr. Senator, I don't accept such a motion to refer it to you again. No, the committees have closed... As far as I know, the committees have completed their work, there's a report... So, what, you're gonna refer it back to this committee? [[Mr. Marshal, I'm straightening up. To the Legislative Commission.]] [[You should have said that right away.]] Oh, well, you should've said that right away, so we would've... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, Senator, don't tell me. Okay? [[Voice from the hall: I don't tell.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we now proceed to the vote. Who among your senators is in favour of completing the agenda for amending the Law on Assembly Law and considering it under item twenty-nine of the agenda? Who's in favor of putting the bill in order? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 70 senators voted against, 50 against, 20 against. [[Voting No 80]] In view of the results of the vote, I declare that we have completed the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Law on Assembly. This item will be considered as item twenty-nine of the agenda. And without opposition, we have introduced a law on amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency on the agenda; it will be examined within the framework of item twenty-eighth. Now we will vote on Senator Jan Rulewski's second motion: to direct this bill... You want to vote right now, don't you? [[Yes.]] All right. So we are voting on the senator's motion for this bill to be addressed to the Legislative Commission. Who is in favour of Senator Jan Rulewski's request to pass this law to the Legislative Commission? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 69 senators voted, 19 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 81]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on... No, not until 8:00, sorry. Wait, I've gone too far... Oh, I got it. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The text of the Act is contained in print No 356 and the committee's report In print No 356 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to report on the work of the Infrastructure Committee on the draft amendment of the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The main objective of this law is to ensure continuity of management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, in short PAŻP. The President of the Council of Ministers shall, at the request of the Minister responsible for Transport, the Deputy President or another person delegate the duties of President for a maximum period of six months, with the possibility of extending that period by a further six months, not more than twice. The procedure for entrusting management of the agency's activities has been exhausted in the current state of affairs. The competition procedures carried out so far have not selected candidates that meet the requirements laid down by the law; because at the same time a competition has been announced for this position. This stalemate has been going on since 2015, when I will remind you that the Sejm amended the Act on 9 July so that the President, acting in office, could continue to manage this agency. In fact, the whole principle and idea of this change is to improve the procedure for selecting the president of the agency, and so that this agency, which, of course, has very much competence... The point is that the president of such an agency, who is also very responsible, can simply exercise this function. We've had a situation so far that there was a glass ceiling. In fact, the whole election of the President in competition mode was limited to a very narrow group of people: management or previous presidents. It can be said that the same person was first president of LOT, then President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency and then President of the Civil Aviation Authority. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the need to introduce such a short vacathio legis is due to the fact that the deadline for the duties of President of PAZP is 31 December of this year. Thus, all formal possibilities for entrusting someone with the responsibility to run this institution were exhausted, and so far the competitions announced did not lead to the election of the President of PAZP. The current competition procedure also does not give any guarantee as to the deadline for its completion before the end of that period. This is all the more so since 2017. The Agency must undertake new very important tasks while the government is working on a general revision of the Agency Act. These are legislative work carried out within the framework of the Council of Ministers' programme UD158. Yesterday, four questions were asked at the committee's meeting regarding the amendments to this law and the proposal to adopt the law without amendments was adopted by a majority. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Maciej Grubski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u6	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, the senator said: And this statement was also made at the committee's meeting. That there is a problem with the election of the new head of the PAZP. Does it make sense to lower recruitment criteria in such a way that practically everyone on the street can apply for this position?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u7	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u8	There's no understatement here. Please note that in the amendment concerning the article. The 6th requirement is stated as follows: "He has knowledge and skills in matters owed to the Agency. Besides, as you pointed out, the project has increased the requirements for one of the agency's deputy presidents. I repeat: since 2015 we have been dealing with a stalemate situation, because in competitions that are constantly conducted there, we are unable to select any candidate. This is a settlement that unfortunately does not serve the work of this agency. The budget of over seven hundred million is going to be even bigger next year. It's a huge responsibility. Plus, air traffic controllers, pilots and all the cases that are related to the operation of airports, so I think the CEO's gonna be really, really big. I think this is the most logical solution at this point. Well, if we haven't been able to pick a candidate in competitions for two years... In the previous term of office, the Sejm amended this ad hoc bill, actually just so that the president could continue to occupy this position, so something is wrong here. Well, legislation can't be done that way. You have to solve problems in the long term, so I think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Senator rapporteur, liberalisation of these requirements may be surprising, because on the one hand you are talking about the huge budget that the agency has at its disposal, you are talking about the seriousness of this agency and its importance for air traffic safety, and on the other hand you are talking about the liberalisation of legislation. Please tell me today at the Senate meeting the vice president and the president of this institution are present. The Agency's structure is not well qualified, prepared people with properly profiled education and with appropriate experience within the agency, who could successfully launch, win and hold the position of President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency in this competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u11	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u12	This was not discussed during the committee's deliberations, but in my opinion, if such persons were, they would certainly have applied for the competition. Well, the contest's been going on for two years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u13	Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u14	Thank you. I understand it was a language lapsus, Mr. Senator. Are you suggesting that incompetent persons work at the Polish Air Navigation Agency? Because you said there wasn't a person there who could enter the competition and win it. After all, the agency is functioning perfectly, there is no danger of its current functioning, so in my opinion your hypothesis is false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u15	That's not a hypothesis. In fact, maybe I said the wrong thing, but the point was that if the people who had the ambition to stand for this contest, they didn't stand for it, it meant that something was wrong when it comes to setting up mode. Let's take a look at the mechanism that was supposed to lead to an efficient selection of the head of the agency. Well, it doesn't work, it just doesn't work. That's what I'm gonna say. [[May I? One last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u16	Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u17	Thank you. One last question, Mr. Senator. Did you two talk... analyze the recently announced competitions during the committee meeting? Over the past few years, hasn't anybody entered the competition, or hasn't just been selected in the contest procedure for a candidate who meets these requirements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u18	This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u19	Thank you. Senator Dobkowski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u20	Thank you very much. Senator, tell me what is the difference between the existing requirements that a candidate for president must meet and the requirements that this law provides for.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u22	According to the Act, the President of the Council of Ministers shall appoint the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for transport, as assessed by the President of the Civil Aviation Office from among the candidates selected by means of a competition. That was the record so far. In addition, according to point 6 of this, I would say that the old law should have at least 5 years' working experience, including at least 3 years' working in management positions related to civil aviation. There is also a specific composition of the competition committee. This is what this old law says, which unfortunately did not allow the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency to be elected for 2 years. And when it comes to the new bill, it's in the mouth. 4 we have the following entry: the position of the President may be taken by a person who holds a master's degree or equivalent, is a Polish citizen and enjoys full public rights, has not been punished for a deliberate crime or intentional tax offence, has knowledge and skills in matters due to the agency, has at least 5 years' work experience, including at least 3 years' working in managerial positions, and knows English fluently. This extended the circle of people who can apply for the position of President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u23	Senator Grubski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The senator uses the phrase: 2 years after the problem occurred. What is the limit date, the date on which the last head of the Polish Air Navigation Agency was elected permanent?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u25	This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. All I can say is, if I remember correctly, it was in 2013. But that's what I'm gonna say on the side. In 2013, and then, again, in 2015... I remind you that the July 9th Act was done, I would say, under the position of... She was accepted in the Senate, I think she got 100%. The votes in favor, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u26	The senator wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u27	According to the senator, do you have knowledge and skills about the Polish Air Navigation Agency That's the requirement here. This is the qualification that gives the right to choose a professional for this position within this new selection formula?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u28	I think so. As Senator Slugocki suggested just now, there are so many people who have so much competence and experience that they could be elected President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. Let me remind you that so far everything has actually happened in a very narrow caste of directors. Well, you could ask trivially: who is your husband? My husband, sir, is a principal by profession. So the same man was changing positions, remaining within executive positions, CEOs all the time. This is a glass ceiling which is for young, ambitious and capable people, which in Poland is very many, impossible to jump. And that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u29	Senator Slugocki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u30	Thank you very much. I would like to correct the rapporteur's statement a little bit. Mr. Senator, I only said that today there are probably many people working at the Polish Air Navigation Agency who meet the criteria of the current legal order, i.e. this tightened law. I don't know what the indications were, whether these people competed in the contest or not. I don't know why this competition hasn't been decided so far. But I disagree with the second part of your statement, Senator. I'm gonna ask you a question here. I am absolutely in favour of rewarding young people, but under certain conditions. It is important that these people have an education course, experience, including experience in managerial positions. Each of us once began his professional activity. It is difficult for a graduate to take a post as a principal the day after graduation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u31	I'm not exactly able to answer that. Don't ask the senator to follow all the competitions that take place there, as well as who and where he took off with what powers. That wasn't the subject of our committee, either.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u32	Mr. Senator Dobkowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u33	Mr. Senator, from what I understand... [[Quiet, please.]] From what I understand, it is not as Senator Slugocki said, that a person after college, without an internship as a manager, is immediately a director. Because from what the senator has presented, it appears that in the new arrangement, this person is also to have a five-year position as manager. There's probably a nuance about three years. That's just the difference between the old law and the new law. Those three years that are now, I guess they just need a higher qualification... Besides, there are other conditions that in principle require higher qualifications than so far. The point is that these three years in general cause that only some people in a certain circle can run, others have no qualifications. I have a question... I have to finish with a question. So, at this moment, with the new law, will these people have to fulfil higher qualifications or lower qualifications, so far? Thank you. Because, in my opinion, it's higher.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u34	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u35	I mean, they're not just gonna be restricted to civil aviation. They will need to have knowledge of the agencies themselves, the structure of the agencies. But this is not limited only to people with experience related to aviation stricte Civilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u36	No questions. Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit. Welcome, Minister. I welcome the deputy president of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, Mr Janusz Niedziela. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? I take it you do. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for his reliable, full of facts and concrete events, a report in which the senator presented the history of the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. High Izbo, the problems with the appointment of heads of agencies began in 2013 and I stress: in 2013. The so outlined circle of people who could act as executives of the agency or one of the vice presidents responsible for the control of flights caused the previous coalition to amend this law in order to allow for the extension of the delegation of office. The competitions simply failed and the previous coalition was not able to establish in normal mode, in the contest mode of the head of the agency. Moreover, in August 2015, as a result, there was such a situation that for a month there was no head of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, so the situation was very dramatic. This was the result of the extension of the term of office and was entrusted to the person Forgive me, but that's the truth. It had nothing to do with aviation, nothing to do with the Polish Air Navigation Agency. It was a person in a completely different industry, a person who has proven himself, has experience, so far performs these responsibilities, and I can say that he is properly fulfilling his responsibilities. You can argue, but she certainly didn't make any mistakes that would disqualify her as the boss. But, ladies and gentlemen, even the person who is doing his duty today, under the laws of today's law, could not win the competition. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to such absurdity. Hence this bill, hence all the simple solutions we propose. These are solutions not invented, but commonly used. The Minister for Transport shall submit the nomination to the President of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers shall accept the nomination. This applies to one of the most important institutions in the country. Is there anything unusual about that? There are certain criteria which, of course, have not been reduced, as suggested here, only clarified in such a way that on the one hand they extend opportunities, extend a set of people who can fulfil them and, on the other hand, provide formal competences that are necessary to perform these functions. Here's what I'm gonna say. High Izbo, we are preparing a draft law, a broad amendment of the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. I think this will also be an opportunity to discuss deeply about the agency itself, its development opportunities. What is most important today in the Agency's life, apart from the appointment of such a fully empowered management, is a matter that is approaching a happy solution, namely the adoption by the European Commission of a revision of the performance plan. It is a question of the possibility for the Polish Air Navigation Agency to raise charges for directing flights over the territory of the Republic of Poland. Poland today has one of the lowest rates in Europe. There will be an opportunity to raise these rates, among others. it will help the Agency to develop, to invest in a number of ways and to continue to operate. This is essential. Plus, among other things. there is a need for the management of an agency which is fully empowered, for which there is no doubt which already has a full mandate to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u38	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. [[Senator Kazimierz Klein.]] Mr. Senator Klein. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u39	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to ask you about the relationship between the Civil Aviation Authority and the Agency. Doesn't it seem that these institutions could be e.g. Connected? What are the differences in competence? Why does this separation work? It seems that perhaps the solution would be to create a single institution that would manage the whole area of cases. Perhaps the office would be such an institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u40	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u41	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not possible, among other things. for formal reasons and international agreements in which we are. Air navigation agencies must be separate bodies. This is the way the European Union's legislation defines it and there is simply no other option here. Prior to that, flight control services operated at Polish Airports, but according to EU legislation they had to be separated so that they would be somewhat independent, outside business structures, functioning institutions that provide free flight and all carriers with equal rights. As far as the Civil Aviation Authority is concerned, I'm going to say that there's a competition going on, and I think this is where the competition is going to be successfully completed when it comes to selecting the boss. So that it is not such a doctrine that we run away from competitions, only where the competitions function well, where the criteria are well set, then the competitions are conducted. That's the second part of the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Aviation Authority is the most important office in Polish aviation. This is the authority responsible for market control, also oversees the Polish Air Navigation Agency. And that is also a requirement of the European Union. In conclusion, I will say that it is not possible to connect the Civil Aviation Authority with the Polish Air Navigation Agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Grubski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u43	Thank you. Minister, will this bill result in a competition for both the president and the vice presidents? Do we leave the vice presidents behind?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u44	The bill we're talking about assumes that the president and vice presidents will be appointed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u45	Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u46	I understand, Minister, that this is the responsibility of the minister responsible. Will the Minister responsible at the request, or will he appoint the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency himself?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u47	As far as the president's concerned, he's called... [[Prime Minister.]] ...the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers, at the request of the Minister, and as far as the Vice-Presidents are concerned, they are appointed by the Minister. [[At the president's request?]] Yes. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u48	Thank you very much. No questions. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Have any of you signed up for this? I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. And I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Assembly. The text of the Act is contained in print No 355 and the committee report In print No 355 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to present a report to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The joint committee meeting was held yesterday. The subject of the meeting was the amendment of the Assembly Act. I would like to point out briefly what is involved in changing the provisions of the Assembly Act. The main objective of the Law on the amendment of the Law on Assembly Law adopted by the Sejm on 2 December 2 December is to introduce a new category of assembly, so-called. cyclical gatherings. That's what we're talking about in the article. 1 point 5 of the Act. In the event of such gatherings being held by the same organizer in the same place and on the same route at least 4 times a year according to the schedule drawn up or at least once a year on the days of public and national holidays, if such events have taken place in the last 3 years, even if not in the form of assemblies, and aimed in particular at celebrating important and relevant events for the history of the Republic of Poland, the organizer will have the opportunity to ask the voivodeship to agree to the regular organisation of these meetings. In the proposal, the organiser will be required to justify the purpose of organising such meetings on a regular basis. cyclical meetings shall take precedence over the choice of place and time before other organised meetings, pursuant to Article. 1 point 2. On the basis of one decision, the voivodeships concerned may take place within a period of not more than 3 years from the organisation of the first round of meetings. The next element of the amendment discussed here is the introduction of the priority of assemblies organised by public authorities and assemblies held as part of the activities of churches and other religious associations before the other assemblies. Another element when it comes to organizing assemblies... Where a notice has been made before the date of entry into force of the Act and the meetings concerned are to take place at the same place and time as the regular meetings, Article will apply. 26b, which means that the municipal authority will be required to issue a decision to ban the assembly. In the event of a failure by the municipality authority, the voivode will be required to issue a replacement order for the prohibition of assembly without delay. So much for the contents of the bill. The committee was attended by representatives of social organisations. With regard to the opinion of the Legislative Bureau Maybe I'll talk about it sooner. After examining the draft amendment to the law, the Legislative Office focused on 5 such key issues and proposed 3 amendments. What were these comments about? This is where it was mostly... In the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, the amendment of the law is incompatible with these regulations. As regards the hierarchy, the introduction, let's call it, the hierarchy of assembly by the novel of this law, here the main point was that the law sort of divides society into privileged groups, which, in the opinion of the office, is incompatible with European regulations. Another comment is the failure to specify the mandatory distance between organised demonstrations introduced by law. This is a distance of 100 m. According to the Legal Bureau, this distance is not precisely indicated. Another of the comments of the Legislative Bureau was about competing gatherings, i.e. countermanification, and about the fact that when it comes to the choice of the place and time of the organized assembly, the convention may not be the first to have, so to speak, the priority before the cyclically organized assembly. The next comment of the Legislative Bureau was on the principle of non-action of the law backwards, so what I have already pointed out, i.e. that the assemblies that were planned earlier... The order of the notification will not have... It can be blocked, by decision of the voivode, in the case of the organisation of a cyclical assembly. The last comment was on the vacathio legis law. The Legislative Office indicated that the 14-day deadline should be maintained This is due to the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. As far as the proceedings are concerned, as I pointed out earlier, representatives of various associations and organisations participated in the meeting, among others. Offices of the Ombudsman, the association of Ordo Iuris, the Foundation of Batory, the Civil Network Watchdog Polska, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the OSCE, Amnesty International, etc. The positions of social organisations were converged and essentially focused on issues identified by the Legislative Office. Only the Ordo Iuris association did not deny the need for this law, but made some comments on the specific provisions. The discussion at the committee meeting was about the issues identified in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, and as far as the effect of the committee's work is concerned, the committee recommends that the law be adopted without amendment. The motion to reject the law was not supported by a majority of committees and will be presented by a representative of a minority of committees. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u50	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the minority's motion to reject the bill. I have submitted this application with Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, with Senator Waldemar Sługocki, but also with the support of Jan Rulewski, Bogdan Borusewicz and all senators of the Civic Platform, because none of us will raise hands, will lay hands or fingers on this bill, because this bill is bad, bad, drastically restricts the right to assembly. The authority, the public authority, the state has a monopoly on organizing events, gatherings, i.e. it can be said that the authority stands before the citizen. You could say there's a state-infliction going on. As we look at the laws that we have adopted in turn, and at this next law, the Law on Assembly... one can say that there is a process of enlisting the state, in my opinion, already creating the State of PiS. The piss scares the opposition. He's threatening that we're planning something, that we're planning some kind of confrontation. He doesn't allow consciousness... he can't even assume that the assemblies are peaceful, that they're supposed to be. Apparently, he has some experience in organizing assemblies, and he has a different opinion about it, but we can follow up on the history of the conventions of recent years... The PiS wants to replace the opposition and organise its own assemblies. I wonder when he's gonna start organizing strikes, too, because that's where he's going. The Senate Marshal has been in Belarus for two days. Perhaps there he also advised on how to deal with the opposition, how to deal with the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, clear opinions, crushing the views of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the OSCE, the position of the Foundation. Stefan Batory... You could list all these positions that are crushing and negative. I don't know any opinion that's positive. Well, I've heard in the roundabouts that one opinion of a president is probably positive, but I haven't heard of any official positive opinion, all opinions are crushing. [[They're from one source.]] The bill is unconstitutional. It is contrary to many articles of the Constitution. I tracked it down, looked it over, and I can say in advance that it is contrary to the article. 57 Constitution on Freedom of Assembly, Art. 54 talking about freedom of opinion. It's contrary to Article. 2 constitutions: Rzeczpospolita Poland is a democratic legal state, as well as with art. 31: Human freedom is subject to legal protection. It is also contrary to Article. 32: Everyone is equal to the law... I've only read the parts so you'll know more or less what the articles are about. This law is also contrary to European law. Now I'm going to the bill itself. This bill, like I said, is bad, bad, and it can't be corrected. There are no amendments to this bill because this bill is divided into two parts... The first part is about putting power in front of a citizen, so to speak. And I'll try to justify that to you in a moment. The second part concerns cyclical gatherings. The third part concerns the vacathio legis law. And there's an art. Two that works backwards, which shouldn't happen either. As for the first part, about putting power in front of a citizen... A hierarchy has been established. On the basis of this and the previous law, a hierarchy of assemblies can be established. What does she look like? First, there are meetings organized by public authorities and assemblies held as part of the activities of churches and other religious associations. I don't know why the church is being dragged in here again. Does the church have any problems organizing, I don't know, processions, pilgrimages? I don't know. It didn't happen... I'm part of the procession myself and never. Unless you don't walk and you don't know For this reason there was no problem, and the state, as always, you force the church to legitimize these activities as well. So first there's public authority, church and other religious unions. The Act then introduces cyclically organised meetings, which are decided by the voivode. It's a bit of a curiosity thing. I myself have been a voivode for eight years, and I know that under this recipe you can block any assembly that you can do. Then there are regular gatherings, provided, of course, that there is an open seat... that a certain place and time has not been occupied before. And then there's the spontaneous gatherings. Now I'll come back, one at a time, one at a time... I'm sorry how many minutes I have, because I don't know... [[There's no limit.]] [[The rapporteur, Mr Senator, there is no limit...]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please! It's just that you're presenting a report on the committee meeting, not discussing the bill.]] Yes. [[But I'm not limiting you to the right to vote.]] To make this clear, I would like to say that I have applied for the rejection of the law by the minority, and at the moment I justify this request, Mr Marshal. Just a little bit more, then. [[But I'm really not interrupting you, and you don't have a time limit.]] Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm glad. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to the first one right now, about the bill... the authority before the citizen. So far, it has been stated in the Act that the provisions of the Act do not apply to conventions organized by public authorities, held within the framework of the activities of churches and other religious associations. This is now amended because it is now point 1 of the Act, and in point 2 has been added: "The meetings organised in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in this Act may not be organised at the place and time at which the meetings referred to in paragraph 2 are held. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This bill that we have about assemblies gives priority... has been mentioned to whom he gives it. There is therefore no doubt. The discussion about these 100 meters of distance, etc., in my opinion, is secondary. This is not particularly important; this is also the subject of discussion. That was the first case. Now the other one. I would also like to discuss the issue of cyclical gatherings. Why do we have to reject the bill? Because this very new chapter, which is called chapter 3a of the Act, concerns something that is nowhere in the world or in Europe; we are talking about some cyclical gatherings. Ladies and gentlemen, what these cyclical gatherings are is defined, but I do not know on what basis. We've been trying to figure out who set these criteria. Now, as for these cyclical gatherings, that is, the puriazum, it is stated that either four times a year, or If it is a national holiday, a national holiday once a year, a decision shall not be issued for more than 3 years. And there is also the record: "Although not in the form of assemblies, it turns out that something that had been done before, not even in the form of a convention, but as something similar, can be drawn up to the cyclical assembly. And that's for the governor to decide. So far it has been so with regard to the assemblies that the applications were made to the governor, the mayor, the commune. This is a task commissioned by the local government. And now we're introducing someone completely new, which is what we're doing with these voivodeships. Ladies and gentlemen, what are these cyclical gatherings to look like? Of course, the voivode will justify it. The whole curiazum is that there is no way to appeal against the decision of the voivodship at all. It is the voivode who will decide this, examine whether it is a cyclically organized assembly, and issue a decision. If he makes a positive decision and has to make a decision between the seventh and the fifth days before the meeting, but it turns out that a request for a public meeting has already been made in the municipality, the mayor has 24 hours to issue a negative decision in view of the fact that he has been given a decision to organise a cyclical meeting. If he does not issue a negative decision, the next day the voivode will issue a replacement order for him. And that's all in five days. Not to mention it could happen on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, because these things happen. At that time, the voivode will issue a replacement order. Well, what's there to appeal to? You may appeal the decision of the mayor, but this procedure will no longer lead to this... There will be a scheduled assembly, which is cyclical, which has now been set up above. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a psychic, this is unacceptable. That is why I appeal once again to all of you... This law cannot be adopted, this law is incompatible with the Constitution, this law primarily limits the right to assembly. I don't want to mention the discussion that took place in the Senate. I read some of the speeches, including the Senators from the PiS, about what it looked like after the previous shift. Read them to yourselves. Therefore, I clearly inform you that both myself and all the senators from our club that I have mentioned, we will not lay hands on this bill so that it is not said that the Senate has adopted this bill. And if that happens, it will only take the votes of the PiS, not the Senators of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u52	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. You're the first Senator Grubski to come forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee why this law does not provide for the possibility of appealing against the decision of the voivode concerning the approval of regular assembly arrangements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u54	Thank you very much. [[Thank you, Mr...]] How about three questions? If... but not because you don't know which rapporteur... So after one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is a bill that was a parliamentary project. I don't know if we have an applicant's representative in the courtroom. As far as I am concerned, the Senate's Rules of Procedure do not oblige the representatives of the applicants to attend the sitting. I don't know why there's no such record in this bill. This was not discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, Mr Senator, rapporteur... But my question is to both senators, including Senator Piotr Flork, the senator representing the minority. Gentlemen of the Senators, do you not think that through the introduction of cyclical assembly institutions, public authority may prevent other movements, non-governmental organisations, the organisation of conventions in the most convenient terms and best places to manifest, express themselves naturally peacefully? Is it disapproval or disapproval of solutions taken by public authorities, whether by parliament or by local authorities? Isn't it the overzealousness of a legislator who wants to give power to the public so that it can in any way restrict the right to assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u58	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Let me answer you first because I'm standing by the podium. Senator, let me put it this way: it wasn't the subject of... such discourses weren't the subject of a committee meeting, just like that. But since you used the phrase that power or government is trying to limit some laws by introducing the concept of cyclical gatherings, I remind you once again that it was a parliamentary project, it wasn't a government project... [[Senator Waldemar Sługocki: But the law will apply?]] Yes, yes, the law will apply. But I don't know why you're asking me if the government is trying to limit anything. This law, and it is not long, contains changes or introduces only 11 articles, in the light of my knowledge, does not indicate that anyone forbids anything. And as for the record you have indicated regarding the organisation of cyclical gatherings, maybe I'll quote part of it. Yeah, it says four times a year. But in terms of... And it is: in the form of assemblies which will aim in particular to commemorate important and important events for the history of the Republic of Poland. I don't know why you think organizing such events is a restriction. Besides, as far as I'm concerned, there are no other barriers to the gatherings being held at the same time, apart from the distance of 100 m... Well, maybe not in the same place. It's hard to imagine organizing 200 thousand demonstrations in a place where it can fit, say, 110 thousand people. Right? So it's about safety. Anyway, that was also... Let me put it this way: according to the information that the government representative, the Deputy Minister, gave to us Although I do not know whether this is an up-to-date position, the government did not have a position on this matter because the law was a parliamentary project. As far as safety concerns are concerned, here and by the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and by the representative of the Police Chief... The introduction of this record, the limitation of the possibility of organizing two assemblies at the same time, by the way: counter meetings, will undoubtedly affect the security conditions of these assemblies. And as the government's representative also stressed, the government will support any project or regulation that will improve citizens' safety, because that is its task. So much for that question. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u60	Of course. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u61	In a moment, Mr. Senator Peter Flork, I would also like your opinion on this subject. Senator, first of all, you shouldn't be absolutely surprised, because if the Senate adopts these laws, they will apply to the public. It is the public authority that will be equipped with these mechanisms, not the legislator. Then don't be surprised. Secondly, my question... I ask: why does this law prefer public authority, not citizens, not citizens' movement? Why do you want to reduce the process of building civil society? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u63	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I read this bill. It's very short. I do not see a place where citizens' rights are limited. Right as to the place, distance 100 m, maybe so, maybe it's some form of limitation, but there are also safety reasons. I don't know if you recall the committee meeting, but one of the opposition senators, your clubmates, gave an example of France, where during the demonstration there are burned tires, where blood is shed, where property is destroyed. In my opinion, the statutory guarantee that such events do not occur is deliberate. [[One last question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u65	Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me, I've been very active with both committees yesterday, but please remind me which of my colleagues I'm a member of the Civic Platform Club, and I hope you know that you've been giving an example of bloodshed. Yes, there was a statement... [[This is a discussion, not a discussion of the bill.]] It was, yes, such a statement... [[Quiet, please.]] ...about blood spilling, but I'm sure no one at the Civic Platform Club ever talked about blood leaking. Thank you. [[But it's pouring in there.]] [[Sir... may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u66	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u67	Mr. Senator, maybe I overinterpreted Senator Rulewski's statement a little bit, because this is the senator who gave the French example, but in the middle of the riots, Let's call it a riot, not a manifestation, and a riot in France is a bloodshed. And the example you gave at the committee meeting on bloodshed... You know perfectly well that this was a reference to the words of Marshal Piłsudski. And that was an example, not encouraging bloodshed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u69	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I was in the Senate committee meeting, too. e.g. I also wanted to know more about these cyclical meetings from the rapporteur's senator, but unfortunately that was not possible; I also asked similar questions to the Minister. It's about cyclical gatherings. The senator asks if they can block other gatherings. In the case of cyclical gatherings, the voivode makes a decision. In some ways, it is limited in this respect, because although the criteria are vague, it has to issue this decision in the event that... And here's an example. the condition that meetings take place on a regular basis 4 times a year. I asked about such gatherings in Poland, whether they are held, I asked that maybe on the example of Warsaw give it. Well, unfortunately, I didn't get any of that answers. Not every place, and it will not always be possible to organize a cyclical assembly to block the possibility of someone else protesting. But let me remind you, the public authorities have priority. Therefore, there may always be a chief of inspection in the voivodeship and say that he is holding a meeting right here and these days. Someone else must report to the assembly between the 30th and the sixth day, and he will come on the seventh day and say that he wants to organize the assembly here, and as a public authority he will have the right to do so, or he may block another assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u70	You're still Senator Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u71	Thank you very much. This is the last thread, last question for Senator Grabowski. Mr Senator, I regret that you are quoting the speech of yesterday's committee meeting, the speech of the Member State senator, who, in my opinion, has crossed the lines of a well-understood parliamentary debate. [[But I'm asking you a question.]] Don't you think in your speech... That is the question, Mr. Marshal: don't you think that my clubmate, Senator Jan Rulewski, has been offended, so that we can be in this room today and debate in a democratic, pluralistic way? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But ask me a question! Question, Mr. Senator!]] That's the question. Listen, Mr. Senator... [[Quiet, please.]] ...with attention and understanding. Don't you think it was an abuse, that it was at least insensitive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as a senator, I don't have an obligation to judge the statements of other senators. Everyone, so to speak, speaks in their own name. As I recall, Senator Bonkowski in his ad vocem withdrew from this comparison, from this quote from Marshal Piłsudski. On the other hand, when it comes to any personal accusations or adjectives addressed to Senator Rulewski, it is not the role of the rapporteur to refer to this behavior of both senators. They're both pretty expressive, so to speak, they can express themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u74	Thank you very much. I have Senator Zdrojewska registered, but I can't see her. Senator Wczyła, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u75	I have a question for both rapporteurs. I'd like you to comment on this. And I would also like to ask if this was the subject of discussions at the committee meeting. That the essence of the law is that it protects institutions and weaker people. In this case, the law does not protect the weaker, because it is known that public authority is a stronger party when it comes to obtaining any consent. And the second element is the Church. If we treat him as a non-governmental institution, let us remember that he is the strongest, best organized part of social life. Paradoxically, there is no such situation that the law protects the stronger from the weaker, putting at the end of this series of spontaneous gatherings or assemblies organized e.g. by NGOs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u76	Thank you. I understand that this was a question for both rapporteurs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u77	I'll be brief. Of course, the discussion on this subject was. Let me remind you that I was quoting an article. 32 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that everyone is equal to the law. And, of course, there's an inequality here. Power stands before the public in this case, so it's not here. equality against the law. In my opinion, this is a violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u78	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, yes, there was a discussion on this subject about the weaker. Let me put it this way: it reminds me of situations a few years ago when weaker people weren't protected because demonstrations and counter-demonstrations were rubbing away. These were situations in which those weaker ones suffered. They were e.g. National manifestations... I don't want to generalize and judge the entire National Movement here, but there were also counter-demonstrations on which, so to speak, there was bloodshed. The cops were also injured. I think there's some restrictions, at least 100 meters of distance, which the representatives of the Police Headquarters and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration see on purpose... well, that's some kind of barrier between demonstrations. And I will not fully agree with the opinions that this is not in this part in line with EU regulations, European Union regulations. As far as I can remember. I didn't take this writing material, it's there that the manifestations should be organized so that they're within sight or audibility... The point is that in the event of manifestation and counter-manification, they should hear each other. I think this one, I'd say, is a 100-metre buffer introduced by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u80	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u81	Mr. Senator, I'm talking to Senator Grabowski. I don't think you understood the point of the question. It was not about security later, at the assembly, but it was about the fact that at the time of deciding to agree to the congregation, the weaker one would become even weaker. Well, it's something on the principle: my right is more powerful, more important than the association's right. After the adoption of this law, he will lose at the stage of obtaining approval for the assembly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Nor is my agreement with what you say, Senator. There is no barrier that manifestations cannot be organized in one place. At a distance of 100 m from each other. Right? If someone feels the need to manifest their views... Whether to move the space of this manifestation about 100 m or 150 m Let's say it's going to be the next street. Is that going to be a limitation of rights? I was setting an example. Let's say that on the square of the Three Crosses there will be organized 2 manifestations of people with extremely different views. Well, there's just gonna be some riots and riots. So that I don't agree with you here, Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u84	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u85	Perhaps from the perspective of Warsaw it looks that way. I am a resident of Elbląg, where within 100 m of the place where the assembly is planned, there may be a yard, a dumpster, a block, and not the area where the second assembly can be made. Sadly, it is to push those who want to make the assembly from the place of their planned assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u86	That was a question. Or a statement? [[This can be considered a statement, because I don't expect...]] Do you have any more questions for the senator? Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u87	Thank you very much. I had a prepared question which someone had already asked, but I have one more question concerning the context of international agreements and conventions signed by Poland. There were different opinions at the committee meeting on this subject. Would you mind referring to that, senator? I would also ask that Senator Florek, a minority representative, refer to this. We have been talking here about the unconstitutionality of these provisions, but I would like to know something about how much this law is incompatible with the international agreements that we are signatories to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u88	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, in the opinion of the Legal Bureau... In opinion 147 of the organisation, I checked the e-mail box and for today, 157 of them are not in line with the rules of European Union law. To be honest, I think a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should speak on this issue, because they are the most competent on the issue of international agreements. That's one answer. And the other one... Did you ask... Say it again. Was it a non-compliance? Yes? [[No, thank you. That's good enough for me. I understand you're not gonna answer exactly what this is about. I'd like your answer, Senator Flork.]] [[How do you know?]] I can read you the opinion of the Legal Office that you probably have in the materials. You were at the committee meeting, and that's your opinion. Here it's written exactly. I would also like to draw your attention, because here in this room... [[Mr. Senator, some things have to go public and public.]] Okay, I'm the one who can read... Okay, okay, Senator. I'm the one who's gonna let me read it. [[Then read it. Thank you very much.]] As for the attention of the First Legislative Bureau... I mean, I pointed out at the beginning of the report that, in principle, the opinions of these organisations are in line with the opinion of the Legislative Office as regards the derogation from the current rule, on the basis of which the priority in the choice of place and time is the order of applications. It is impossible to disagree with the Ombudsman, who, in his letter to the Marshal of the Sejm on the draft law amending the Law on Assembly Law, states that such legislation restricts the possibility of holding several meetings at the same place and time. In its case law, the European Court of Human Rights points out that the participants in the counter-demonstration have the right to express their disagreement with demonstrators. The State therefore has an obligation to protect the right to gather both demonstration groups and to seek less restrictive measures which would in principle allow both demonstrations to take place. According to the OSCE/BDiPCz Guidelines of the Venice Commission on Peace Freedom of Assembly, the State is required to act to facilitate the simultaneous assembly, i.e. two or more assemblies held at the same time and place. The conduct of each assembly should be facilitated to the extent possible in order to comply with the principle of non-discrimination. It is the duty of the State to prevent any disturbance to the assembly in the event of the organisation of counter-demonstrations, which should be defined in law as gatherings convened in order to express disagreement with the views expressed at the main meeting and taking place almost at the same time and place as the assembly with which they disagree. So in this context, it's 100 meters, and I don't think it's some kind of barrier. I can read on. In fact, as far as EU legislation is concerned, there is no... So much for the opinions quoted, because there is still a reference to the Constitution. I'd still like to... Because I started a story. Very often, in this Chamber, there is a charge of the unconstitutionality of the law. I don't know, maybe I'm a layman, but I think there's some kind of organ that says unconstitutional, because... [[Voices from the Chamber: Court.]] [[Court, Court.]] And here, I see, Senator Zdrojewska and NGOs are ruling on the unconstitutionality or constitutionality of the established law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u90	Does the senator have another question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u91	Yeah, if you don't mind, just ad vocem. This isn't just about the opinions of non-governmental organisations. You know very well that the Supreme Court has also expressed its opinion on this subject. If you think you have more to say about law and constitutionality than the Supreme Court, congratulations on your well-being. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: May I, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u92	But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion, this is just questions for the rapporteurs. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u93	Well, that's only a short time ago, because the senator explained it quite thoroughly. Of course, with regard to the regulation of European law, I do not know any country where there would be regulations about 100 m or that this is the required distance. But one thing is said: it is assumed in advance that the assembly is to be peaceful. That's where it starts. Therefore, in accordance with European law, meetings may take place in a specific place close to each other. That's what it's all about. But, as we know, the Senate... I wasn't a senator in the previous term, but you discussed it extensively. There is also a judgment of the Constitutional Court which has made this clear. This is, of course, enshrined in EU law. The nature of the assembly is primarily peaceful. And that's what we need to remember. If, during such a manifestation, such gatherings come to something, then there are institutions from which... Besides, in Poland, it was also introduced that there is the chairman of the assembly, who of course is responsible for this and for this and who has to make the right decision, if this were to happen. So, above all, the most important thing: the gatherings can take place in a specific place, so it is in all EU law and there are no restrictions on distance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u94	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the senator? Thank you very much. Senator Boris-Damięcka. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u95	Thank you very much. I actually have three questions. If you don't mind, I'll ask them one at a time. [[Yes, of course.]] To the rapporteur. [[Senator's voice.]] Senator. Yeah, I'm sorry. May I have the rapporteur for the speaker? Before I ask this question, I would prefer not to hear the argument that the committee did not think about it or that it was not the subject of the committee, because it is a very important law and it decides in a sense the fate of Poles. In this situation, every aspect of the issue should be considered from all sides, and I take the assumption that you have wondered. My first question is: what arguments are in favour of giving priority in the manifestations to the Church and ecclesiastical organizations or to public authorities, government authorities, rather than other organizations? That's the first question. Question two. Have you considered why the Sejm did not lead to a public hearing on this law? Sejm VIII of the term of office, I remind you, organized a public hearing. Then there was a debate on the bill proposed by President Komorowski. I think public hearing is a very important factor in deciding when it comes to voting. My third question is whether at the committee meeting This is the question for both rapporteurs, the opinions of the Ombudsman, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights have been presented and have you taken into account at least part of the comments in your debate if such opinions have been presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u96	Thank you very much. Senator, if you don't mind, I'm gonna say that the rapporteurs can listen to the questions, sitting down, and you put the senators on the stand, but that's what I'm saying half a joke. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damianka: I'm sorry if that was...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u97	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll answer the first question. In fact, these questions should not be addressed to me as rapporteur, maybe a third yes. The arguments. As I said at the outset, it is a parliamentary project. The representative, as I know, seems to be in the O.R. Yes? I think there's an MP... The applicant's representative is in the courtroom, and he might be able to answer. At the same time, I would like to say that during the discussion, the arguments raised by the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and these are security reasons, the security of citizens, because the overriding objective of the State is to ensure security. The argument used in this room, the question of whether there were manifestations that took place in a disturbing way... Maybe it wasn't, but you could also ask, so historically a little bit... before September 11, 2001, a lot of things weren't considered by people either. After this event, after the World Trade Center suddenly citizens of many countries, countries of the European Union and the whole world, agreed for their own safety to give up part of their rights, to limit these rights to some extent. It's hard. I realize that this is difficult to carry out, because there will always be voices that this is breaking democracy, but the ministry's argument to me is very important, security concerns are very important. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Excuse me, this is the answer to my first question. Yes?]] Yes, I'm talking about the arguments in favour of this bill. That's how I figured it out. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes, but does that mean...]] Senator, I'm sorry, you were also talking about the theme... the ecclesiastical aspect... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes, yes.]] I'll answer that. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Good.]] At the meeting of the committee I personally asked the representatives of the Ministry whether it is theoretically possible, on the basis of the law in force, to stress, theoretically, that, for example. On November 11 or May 3 or on church holidays, in God's Body, during the procession of God's Body, or e.g. on Christmas Eve, during the diocesan Christmas Eve, in the same place, at the same time e.g. The atheist and agnostic association organized a demonstration. The Minister replied to me that it was possible to do so in the current legal state. So I think there are some higher values, there are public holidays... And here, in this room, it's raining before, too, that we should keep a hierarchy that we can't do anything. If there are ceremonies at the grave of the Unknown Soldier, then it is not necessarily in the same square or it can take place, for example. a manifestation that will disturb them. I know there are some unwritten standards that are respected. But I don't know if they'll always be respected. Because... that's about the first question. As for the second question, you asked why the Sejm, the public hearing... Well, that's not a question for me either, now completely, because it's not about the committee meeting. This was not the subject of a committee meeting. You are responsible for the work of the Sejm Marshal of the Sejm. You'd have to ask your marshal that question. I have no idea why such a hearing was not conducted. Nevertheless, organisations, as I said at the outset... I think the 8 organizations that are also referring to your third question have participated... I can read it again, Senator. Former representative of the Ombudsman, former Professor Grzelak, former representative of Ordo Iuris, former director of the Foundation. Stefan Batorego, former representative of the Watchdog Polska Civic Network, former representatives of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, OSCE and Amnesty International. Those organizations were. And they had the right to speak. However, I do not understand your question as to whether the opinions have been taken into account. They didn't make... representatives, which often... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Sorry, I asked whether the opinions were presented, not whether they were taken into account.]] Presented, yes, presented. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Reviews...]] I realized it was about whether or not they were taken into account. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka:...e.g. The ombudsman...]] You used the Senator's phrase "considered." [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Presented.]] These organisations did not have any amendments, except for applications to reject the law. They didn't make any adjustments. [[But they were presented?]] Yeah, they were. Organizations had the opportunity to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u98	Do you have any more questions for the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u99	No, I have... I would like to ask, but I see that I must ask the applicant's representative this question. The answer to my first question is not satisfactory and also not fully... Because the argument and the given example of the ceremony before the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier... security doesn't have to be based on what organizations have priority to organize the manifestation. Security should be based on an order that the relevant authorities to which organizations request permission... Where they're gonna set up, where they're gonna put it and what they're gonna propose... Just like it's been so far. Because why, for example, PCK is not considered as an organization that serves the whole of Poland, etc.? So I'm going to ask that question to the applicant's representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u100	Good. And you had a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u101	Yeah, yeah. The third question you said was that it was addressed to me as well... Once again, I would like to confirm that there were, of course, opinions delivered at the meeting. Little, we also received such a letter, addressed to the senators, from various organizations yesterday there were 143, today there are 157... It was an appeal to the senators not to adopt this law because it greatly restricts the right to democracy. Of course, there were opinions of the Ombudsman, and it was, as I said, the Supreme Court's opinion, probably the longest opinion. Of course, all the opinions were negative. The OSCE opinion was delivered in English. All the opinions were negative, there was no positive opinion, so that's what we took. Of course, there was no representative of applicants and it is difficult to say what will result from this, but the important thing is that we know the opinions of these important organisations. When we vote, we will be aware that we are voting on a law that has a negative opinion of many important and significant non-governmental organisations and, at many points, is incompatible with the Constitution. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u102	Thank you very much. Now for the question, please, Senator Wiesław Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Question for the Senator of the rapporteur. [[They're both rapporteurs.]] Mr. Senator, are you listening to my question? [[But which one?]] Under the Local Government Act, responsibility for security and order is borne by the governor, the mayor, the president. In light of this bill, if he makes a decision on the assembly... We agree. This law includes a new body that will issue a permit for the assembly. Don't you think it's safe if the voivode makes a decision about the assembly... The governor should be included in this law, that he is responsible, and if he is not, he should be included in the Local Government Act, that he, together with the governor, mayor and president, is responsible for the assembly that takes place in the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u104	Thank you very much. And yet you ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. I understand that the question is addressed to the rapporteur, Mr Grabowski. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u105	Yes, I have the following question for Senator Grabowski. This law also regulates the priority of church assemblies, so I have a question: is there a opinion of the Polish Episcopal Conference on this subject? I ask this because all changes concerning the Church or the powers of the Church should, in accordance with the concordat, be discussed with and evaluated by the church party. Is that an opinion? Did the applicants even request such an opinion? I will also ask the Minister this question. Thank you. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal?]] [[Yes, you're welcome.]] [[Thank you...]] One more specific question, because I do not know which assemblies will be organized by the Church or churches and which will not. The question is: in the light of this law, will the assembly or demonstration organized by Radio Maryja and Television Trwam be a church assembly or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u106	Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. To answer the first question, regarding the agreement of the voivodship to organise cyclical meetings, I would say that this issue was not discussed at the committee meeting. As far as I know, it appears from the Assembly Act that the security of the assembly itself and the costs of this security are borne by the organizing assembly. It's not like he's answering here... I don't know to what extent... the mayor, the mayor and the president are solely responsible for making the decision. Right? [[It says in the Local Government Act that the mayor and the president are responsible for security and order. Right? When they make a decision, they take on themselves... if they give their consent to a convention and there are riots, then... of course, the organizer takes responsibility, but also the president and the mayor... it's not like they don't answer...]] Mr. Senator, to be honest, I don't know what the responsibilities of the mayor or the mayor are in the case of the assembly. I don't know if... [[...because in the Local Government Act it's written straight.]] [[Mr. Senator, as I understand it, Senator...]] I don't know the answer to that question. Maybe an applicant's representative or a minister's representative will be able to answer that question. [[I understand that the senator answered that question as far as he knew...]] Yeah, as far as I know. This was not the subject of a committee meeting, no one raised this thread. [[That question can be addressed to a government representative. There you go.]] Second question by Marshal Borusewicz regarding the consent of the Polish Episcopate to include in the Act... I'm just gonna let me quote this. I just need to find it. Namely: The Act also introduces the priority of assemblies organized by public authorities and assemblies held in the framework of the activities of churches and other religious associations. That's what I'd like to put emphasis on. That's one thing. I do not know if, in the case of typing the words of the churches rather than the Catholic Church, it is, so to speak, the required permission of the episcopate. There's a whole bunch of other churches and religious unions... [[But it is clear that this concerns the Catholic Church.]] But also others, Mr. Marshal. As for the third question, also your Marshal Borusewicz, I can honestly say that I do not know the answer to that question. But it seems to me that if demonstrations or assemblies are organized by Television Trwam or by Radio Maryja, then the organizer is not the Catholic Church, only these entities, or commercial entities, because they operate on commercial principles. I think so in the light of my knowledge, but I don't know what it's like. I think they're rather commercial entities and they're organizers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Sheriff, you're welcome. Which Senator rapporteur do you have a question for?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u109	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the minority rapporteur, Senator Flork. Mr. Senator, since you, as a long-standing voivode, also have great experience in government administration, I have a question for you. Is it necessary to include an additional authority such as the voivode in this law as regards the referral of requests for various conventions? Isn't there? And was this discussed for a hidden purpose? What has it been like so far, in practice? Were there any problems with the existing records in the bill? Did the authorities of the commune to which the request for a convention is made cause any problem with the approval of such assemblies? What's it been like so far? Is it really necessary, is there any justification to include in the bill an additional authority, which is the voivode? Thank you. [[Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u110	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. I will also ask for the question of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and then ask for answers. Which senator is the rapporteur to? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u111	I have questions for both Senators rapporteurs. The first question concerns the proceedings of the sitting. Namely, I would like to know who was conducting this meeting and what was its reaction, the President's reaction, to the insulting words addressed to a colleague of Senator Rulewski, who then had the opportunity to read, words which were simply scandalous. I wonder what the president's reaction was. Second question. Gentlemen, when reporting from a different point of view these regulations, you spoke of the primacy of a gathering organized by a public authority or a church, a religious union before a meeting declared by an entity, let's call it, non-public, other non-public entity. And now my question is this: is the voivode, by giving such a priority, to weigh some rations, to follow some criteria, to prevent this collision that was mentioned here? Is there any evidence that such a collision is likely to occur? Could it be a completely arbitrary decision, just enough for someone to report something like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u112	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u113	Okay, I'm answering the first question you've tabled to the Senator of the Delegate. Of course, there has been no record of the voivodeship in the convention bill so far. Just like you said. And you're right. The mayor, the president of the city, is responsible for security in his commune or... That's how the bill regulates it. Well, first of all, it's about safety. And in terms of experience, whether the voivode, when making such a decision, is also responsible for the safety of the municipality Because, in some ways, it moves this assembly, that is to say, it decides that it will take place in a given village... Have there been problems so far in making decisions? I can stress from my 8-year experience that as far as the assembly is concerned, these matters belonged to the authority of the local government. It is the local government that knows the situation in the field, knows the terrain, knows the place, and therefore it was he who made the decision. As far as this task is concerned, it is a task commissioned by the government, and this task was carried out by the government. And this case of entering the voivodeship is, as I said, a curiosity matter. And it wasn't... If there were any problems, it was in the scope of the Mass Event Act. I'm sure this bill will also be revised. I'm just surprised it's not now. You know very well that it was mostly about kibolas, about what was also happening abroad, at stadiums, but it also applies in the country. I made my own decisions about this law, because it was in this law that the voivode was located, but only in part, because he didn't make a decision, but he could in drastic situations, e.g. Shut down the stadium. And that's where the voivodship's competence was recorded. And here there was no such competence, for the first time it was introduced, and this, in my opinion, is arguing with the Local Government Act, etc., because, as I said earlier, the public order is the responsibility of the mayor and the president of the city there. As for the questions raised by Senator Augustine, what was the course of the sitting... Senator Mammoths was driving. I don't think I'm twisting my name... I'm gonna tell you all to the end, so to speak... And sometimes I can twist my name. But, yeah, he was running the meeting. And as for the insulting words that came out... Well, the senator reacted calmly so that... not to mention the fact, but... just to get the assembly going... [[So that we don't discuss it in this direction.]] Not to have a discussion like this, but not... Those specific words you're talking about, the senator, there was no response. And those words were indeed offensive. When it comes to a non-public and public subject... the Act makes it clear when it comes to cyclical gatherings, it is in the voivodeship's competence. He will make his decision on the basis of the knowledge he will possess. This is not exactly and clearly defined. So he's the one who's gonna make the decision. And therefore there will be no collision in the decisions of the voivode itself. Because if there's a decision on a cyclical assembly, that's the decision the voivode will make. When might there possibly be a conflict? Well, that could be when the voivode makes a decision that in the municipality of X... e.g. In Wielkopolska there are 223 municipalities, so please note how many municipalities there are and how much you need to know about them. If the voivode decides that in the commune... I don't know, Mr. Senator is from the voivodship... For example, in the commune Połajewo, the district of Czarnkowsko-rzcianecki, a cyclical assembly is to be held. Therefore, the notification will be made to the uncle. And then the uncle has to check to see if he had a previously reported assembly. Well, there could be a collision... If it turns out it's been reported, it has to issue a negative decision immediately, it has 24 hours because the voivode sent it to him, and the voivode's decision is more important, so he didn't... [[There was an earlier decision...]] No, there is no prior decision, because the mayor only accepts that the assembly will be held. Of course, he could make a negative decision if he felt it was appropriate that it could not be done because of certain matters, but in general there is no such decision. So he gets a decision from the voivodeship. He has to react immediately, within 24 hours, he has to make a negative decision so that there is no possible collision, and if he doesn't, then Like I said. The Voivodeship will issue a replacement order. Again he has the next day; God forbid it will be on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, for it has always been a problem. In my experience, if something happens on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, that's a problem, so in this case there will be a problem, but then the voivode will decide by issuing a replacement order so that there will be no collision between the two assemblies. So that it is clearly regulated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u114	Mrs. Marshal, let me ask you... Arbitral, isn't it? Without any additional criteria?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u115	Yeah, arbitraryly. That's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u116	Thank you. Does the Senator rapporteur, Mr Arkadiusz Grabowski, have anything to say about this? Because the question was addressed to both senators. [[Both.]] [[I understand that all three questions were addressed to both of us because we didn't...]] [[I've asked two.]] [[Voice from the room: Two.]] [[Two.]] Senator Augustine has addressed questions to both senators of the rapporteurs. [[Sorry, I thought it was Senator Flork's. Would you mind repeating these questions briefly, Senator? I'm sorry, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u117	I meant the president's reaction to insulting words. That's one thing. Secondly, I meant whether a voivode, when making a decision that gives priority to a meeting organised by a public authority, must follow some criteria, must take into account any circumstances, whether this is a completely arbitrary decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u118	Good. I can, Mrs. Marshal... To answer the first question, I would like to say that Senator Florek, whom I was listening to, quite rightly described the reaction of President Mammoth to the words spoken by one of the senators, addressed to the other of the senators; the president tried to I'll tell you what. Enough with your emotions. Such a question has been addressed to me before. What is offensive to someone depends on the subjective assessment of each of us from the senators. So that sometimes words made at committee meetings can be considered inappropriate. There are also words in the sitting room that can be considered inappropriate. About the second question about the voivodeship's decision... Senator Augustine used the phrase "public authority." The idea was that part of the article, I think. 1 for public authorities and religious unions, churches. Here's what I'm gonna say. A few minutes ago, I found out. Maybe this will answer some of the questions that were raised at the committee meeting and that might be coming up in a moment; I think this will show the senators the direction in which this law is going to go. That amendments have just been tabled concerning the deletion in Article. 1 public administration, churches and other religious associations. The second amendment referred to the deadline. Senator Rulewski also asked about the conventions held in the near future. A second amendment was tabled concerning the vacathio legis of this law, the 14-day term vacathio legis. So maybe it'll be... Both amendments are already with Secretary Waldemar Sługocki. [[He's gonna be put up for discussion, right?]] I mean, it could also be for protocol, right? [[It's okay.]] The amendment may be submitted to the minutes. So I think I've exhausted the answer... As far as the voivodeship itself is concerned, Senator Florek explained in detail that if the local authorities did not make a decision, then the voivode's alternative decision would be issued. Senator Florek, a former voivode, is well aware of the procedure of making such decisions by the voivode. So here I could repeat what Senator Florek said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u119	Thank you very much. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u120	Thank you very much. [[Fisherman's been here before.]] In fact, the question to both senators... [[Senator Rybicki? I don't have...]] [[Oh, no, I'm sorry.]] [[After Dobkowski.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Please, Senator Dobkowski, and then Senator Rybicki.]] In the opinion of the senators, will the bill effectively prevent provocation and disruption of public ceremonies such as: Independence Day 11 November, Constitution Day 3 May or the anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw? And second question. Will the bill prevent confrontation between fans of two hostile teams? I mean, it's not about hostile teams, it's about fans of these teams. It's about whether this bill has any effect on calming down behavior in stadiums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u121	Thank you very much. That's the senator's question... [[Both.]] Both senators. [[Yeah, both of them.]] Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. And silence, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two questions. First, to the rapporteur's senator. Mr Senator, during the debate at the committee's meeting did the government or other persons present at the meeting justify the incomprehensible pace imposed by the parliamentary majority in the process of a law that is so important and sensitive from the point of view of freedom and civil rights? Whether there were important safety arguments or other, from a different scope Which would give us all the feeling that this is urgent, important and necessary and that justifies a mode that taunts correct legislation? Because there is no public consultation, there is no listening to the opinions of institutions that are quite categorically expressing this law. Did such arguments, which would justify the pace, arise during the work of the committee? And a question for Senator Flork, a minority representative. During the committee's work, were there any compelling arguments that justified the privileged position of churches and religious unions, which is an introduction, I have the impression, unnecessary prevention? But there may have been arguments, statistics indicating disruptions in the procession or in the field mass or other religious celebrations. Were there any arguments to justify the introduction of such a protective umbrella for religious gatherings, which, as we know, are generally of some importance and are not disturbed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u123	Thank you very much. Since these are questions for both senators of the rapporteurs, please, first Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I answer the question of Senator Dobkowski, concerning the first part of public gatherings, public ceremonies. But I think it's also the second part of the bill, which concerns the gathering of football fans, many of whom have been invaded, that's the law that introduces... the answer will be inconsequential. Is she gonna keep you safe? No one can answer that because too many factors determine it. But the introduction of this protective distance of 100 meters will not make security worse, and it will improve the safety of these assemblies. However, I would also like to say that this law does not exclude the possibility of gatherings, but not different conventions at the same place and at the same time. There's a barrier here that they might be... If someone, as I argued earlier, really feels the need to gather, manifest himself, then no one takes away his right to do so. But it does not necessarily have to be done in the same place and at the same time as the other congregation, the gathering of persons, so to speak, contrary views. In this situation, I think this barrier is, so to speak... Moreover, a representative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and a representative of the Police Headquarters have confirmed that this will improve security. About the senator's question... [[Voice from the room:...Rybicki.]] ...Rybicki, about the committee meeting... Excuse me, could you repeat that question, at least in a nutshell? [[Were there reasonable arguments for such a rate of proceding? Are there any events that justify such a pace that taunts the principles of correct legislation?]] As far as I remember, as far as I recall the course of the committee meeting, there was no question about the pace of work on this bill. This is a parliamentary project, as I pointed out at the outset, but no one raised this subject. To put it this way: there was no representative of the applicants at the committee meeting, and a representative of the Ministry of Interior and Administration did not in principle justify this project because it was not the applicant, but expressed his approval for solutions aimed at improving safety. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u125	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u126	First of all, Senator Dobkowski... Does the bill effectively secure the assemblies? It's never possible to say that 100%. The assembly has been secured, but certain safety procedures are foreseen here. There's a representative of the commune, there's the president of the assembly... In a situation where there would be a breach of the law Well, of course the police are watching the security, too. The assembly would have to be dissolved. It is assumed that the assembly is peaceful, but if it turns out that it is not, then there are procedures to resolve such an assembly immediately. I've also pointed out that this bill works backwards when it comes to... That's gonna be a problem if Art comes into force. 2, but maybe there will be a motion to delete this article, so I will not develop that thought. As far as the arguments concerning the Church, religious associations and disturbing the procession are concerned, nothing has happened to me, and I have repeatedly cooperated with the Church, with the Archbishop, for example, in doing my job. We've never had a problem with conventions. No one wanted to organize a gathering during the procession of God's Body, because I think the media... Well, we can't say anything about these media now, either, but I think the media would react immediately and the kind of person who would try to do something like this would certainly be properly evaluated. So far, there have been no risks associated with the fact that someone wanted to counteract such events organized by the Church. I do not know such cases, and here I see that once again the Church is dragged into some law. I don't know if there have been any consultations with the Church. At the moment I am talking about the Catholic Church, because the Catholic Church is, however, ninety-seven percent of the inhabitants of Poland. I repeat: I do not know if there have been any consultations on this matter. I don't think there's a need for the Church to enter this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u127	Mrs. Marshal, I'm just gonna ask. I also asked if there were any statistics at the committee meeting, any information that such incidents were repeated and that this justified such a provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u128	As I recall, there was only one number at the committee meeting. The police representative told us how many conventions were held in Warsaw at some time, probably last year. He answered my question at the time, because I asked how many of these cyclical gatherings, or assemblies held at least four times a year, took place last year in Warsaw, but I did not get an answer to that question. That was the only statement I remember about the number of conventions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u129	Thank you. Senator Grażyna Shark, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u130	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for Senator Grabowski. Was there a speech at the committee meeting yesterday? I should like to inform you immediately that if you are unable to answer this question, I will redirect this question to Minister Gwałek. What sanctions are foreseen for organizers of illegal gatherings? Because they'll be illegal gatherings if they don't follow those deadlines. And the second question is: why is this haste in the implementation of this law, and why has the motion been tabled once again? Do we have a government in exile and can't handle it, so poor Members must be tired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u131	Thank you very much. Just a moment, Mr. Senator. Senator Piotr Wach, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u132	Thank you kindly. Unfortunately, I have three questions, but I think it's clear that they can be asked in a way... all three questions are addressed to both rapporteurs. First of all, do any events from the last period indicate the need to change the law, or for example. Did something happen during Independence Day indicate the need for such regulations? The second question is, is the counter-manufacture Of course, I'm not talking about the report. If, during the legal manifestation, someone stands with a sign that says, "I'm against it?" Of course, I'm speaking symbolically, for example. The point is that someone in the course of the declared manifestation expresses an objection in a way that does not endanger safety. And the third, general question, concerning cyclical gatherings, exactly Article. Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3. I believe Senator Florek has touched on this subject. Can a positive decision on the assembly be withdrawn pursuant to Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 3, if someone later, so post factum, reports a cyclical manifestation? That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u133	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. To answer the first question about sanctions, I would like to say that this is not, as I said at the outset... The Act amends or introduces 11 articles. This was not the subject of a committee meeting. The amendment does not introduce any additional sanctions, there are no new sanctions in the text of the amendment. These are based on the amended law. So that no change is made in this respect. The second question is why are the Members... It's hard for me to answer that question. The legislative paths in the Sejm are defined, among them the message path and Members use it. I don't know if the government had that intention or didn't see the problem... Perhaps the Minister or the applicant's representative will answer the question of why such a path was chosen. I don't know if it was the government's initiative... Well, no, because if it were on the government's initiative, it would be a government project. As far as the last period is concerned, the recent events, such a question was also raised at the committee meeting. As I recall, the answer was that there were no such events. There have been no events which call for a revision of the legislation in this regard. And the question... Oh, and then there's the one-manification issue. I think the convention law regulates how many people... Yes, 15 people this is a gathering, that is, if one person stands with such a plaque, it will not be a gathering. If you sometimes go to your club here on rural street in the house of the Reader, then you probably noticed that there's a gentleman standing there who... I don't think he's a manifesto according to the bill. About the art. Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: Three bills, that's... [[It is about withdrawing the post factum consent on the basis of this provision.]] To be honest, I can't answer that question. I don't know. I would simply ask for the Minister's support. 'Cause just so you know, reading the article... Maybe there's a design flaw here. I'm sorry, I'm gonna duck the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u135	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u136	Senator Piotr Wach asked me: was there a need in recent times, or was there an event, that there was a need for change? In recent years, as we all observe, such events have occurred on November 11th. In recent years, as you remember, as well as recently, this year, many conventions I do not know, for example, the CODE assemblies that were organized They were peaceful gatherings, and there were never any threats. Therefore, the question arises as to why such a rapid change, why not a public hearing, why these procedures do not normally take place, why there is no vacathio legis, since there is no reason to change this law quickly. Of course, we did not learn this at the committee meeting either. About the countermandation... If it's one person... As far as I can tell. But maybe the Minister will fix me. It was in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that it was not 15 people that there was no limit to this 15 people that you were just talking about. So even one person can be... 2 persons this is a gathering. But I wouldn't put my weight on one standing person, because it's possible to report such an assembly. And if necessary, I'm sure he'll be reported. If there are more willing to such countermandation. And in this case, when it is a single man, he does not need any permission from this congregation. In my opinion, he can stand alone with a banner and no one can charge him with anything. The police, in my opinion, have no right to intervene in this situation. And as for this article, you mentioned chapter 3a, that is, art. Article 26a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3: The Organizer shall submit the application referred to in paragraph 3. 1, to the voivode no later than 7 days before the scheduled date of the first of the assembly cycle... No later than seven days. If he makes such a request, the voivode will judge him, as we have already said, on the basis of this unclear criterion: for example, there is an assembly not in the form of a convention. He'll assess it. If he makes a decision, it'll automatically be what you're talking about, Senator. If the mayor or the mayor has accepted the notification that there will be a meeting, then, in this situation, as such a letter from the voivodship will receive, he will have to make the opposite decision prohibiting this meeting. And according to the law, he has to do it with the law, because if he doesn't, the voivode will do it for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u137	Thank you. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u138	Thank you. To the Member of... [[Senator's voice.]] To the Senator, the rapporteur of the majority of the committee. Thank you for the good will expressed by the amendment which removes the so-called. a bonus for churches, and an amendment concerning, instead of abolishing, the introduction of vacathio legis. First part of that question. Were you in charge? At the same time, the motivation of the authors And did you agree with the authors? Or that conventions, religious demonstrations are already regulated by the Law on State Relations to Churches? I'd like to hear your statement, please. And as far as vacathio legis is concerned, is that the article? 2 that the law will not work backwards or art. 3 that the bill comes on the day of the announcement? Which, of course, puts both the President and all those who intend to bring this law before the Court in an uncomfortable situation. And third, last question. Can you explain the factual, functional statement in chapter 3a of the first article: "This kind of event has taken place in the last three years, even if not in the form of gatherings? ' What does it mean, though, not in the form of assemblies? What does the legislator mean by the wording, though not in the form of assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u139	Thank you. Please ask Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To the rapporteur and... [[Senator's voice.]] Again... What's going on? [[Let him go to the Seym.]] Yes, to the senator. There'll be two or three questions, but I'll try quickly. First of all, tell me... [[Senator Grabowski, right?]] Senator Grabowski, but I'll ask Senator Flork if Mr Grabowski... [[Voice from the room: He didn't want to.]] ...didn't want to or, like, He couldn't, because he keeps saying he doesn't know how to answer. Senator Flork, if you need anything. Well, first of all, who is this bill for? I ask, because all organizations, and people of good will, and the highest legal organizations, such as the RPO, the Supreme Court, etc., are against. Who is this bill for in this situation? If you answer that for the government to remain safe... I'm already telling you this is clearly for the government. Here's the other thing. I understand why there's such a rush. The bill prepared as a parliamentary project has a completely different path, a faster path, doesn't it? But why wasn't it at such an important moment at the meeting of the applicant's committee? After all, the committee is unable to work hard if there is no Member of the applicant. It happens very often, and this is disregard for the Senate, which your marshal kindly draws attention to. Here's the next thing. I don't know if that's gonna be a question. Anyway, I understand we're looking for a reason to do this quickly. Isn't it that the government fears that there will already be many manifestations in 2017 that can be caused by some good change that is not going to benefit citizens? Maybe that's the reason? You may not answer that question, but let's try. And the last. I've been in the ruling coalition all these years, I've been an envoy. The main demonstrations that affected the government, the coalition that I was in, were demonstrations organized by the opposition, during which President Komorowski was mudslapped, I am no longer talking about Prime Minister Tusk, all Members of... There was even one Member who carried a board with him hanging from the gallows of Komorov and Tusk... [[Question, Senator, question.]] All right. The question is: doesn't the government introduce this law so quickly in fear of the consequences of these demonstrations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u141	Mr. Senator Grabowski. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. At first, I will allow myself to respond to the charge brought at my address by Senator Fedorovich. Mr. Senator, it just doesn't fit... If you're listening to my answers to questions... I don't shy away from the answer. However, if you are addressing the Senator of the rapporteur who is presenting the report on the committee meeting, the question is why the government is that, why the Sejm is that, why the Sejm that... That's the kind of question I've been asking. I can't answer that. I'll get back to the question from a dozen minutes ago. Why there was no debate in the Sejm, a form of public debate. Well, I'm not, no matter what I want, I'm not. So, Mr. Senator, I can answer the questions that are addressed to me about the committee meeting. I'll answer the questions one at a time, first Senator Rulewski. An amendment has been tabled. Senator Rulewski was not listening very carefully, I used the phrase: an amendment has been tabled. I didn't make it, but there was an amendment, actually two amendments. As far as I'm concerned about the contents of the amendment. They have been submitted to the protocol When it comes to the deletion, in the first part, of religious unions, churches... Well, I don't know why the senators here refer to the Catholic Church all the time. In the bill... [[I'm not talking about Catholic.]] ...is about churches and religious unions. No... Well, yes, there are 90 percent of Catholics. But there are others... About the question about vacathio legis... It concerns, as far as I'm concerned, art. 3, i.e. the date of entry into force of the Act, 14 days from the date of the announcement. I may be wrong, but I looked at this complex amendment and, as I noticed, this is the case. About the art. 1, chapter 3a, I think that's what it's called. And the word "honorable"... I'm gonna skip the question, if I may, but... well, there's an applicant's representative here with us in the courtroom, maybe he can explain what led the Members who submitted... [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] [[Where is he? He's not here.]] There isn't? Is it? Well, I heard it was. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There isn't? I'm sorry. That kind of information... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're the minister.]] Well, I don't know if the Minister... [[I don't know if you understand that phrase.]] Well, not really, I'll be honest with you, not really. Although not in the form of gatherings... I don't know what other forms... Maybe the minister will be... If the assembly... Although not in the form of gatherings... Maybe that's not a very fortunate word. But I am not, so to speak, the designer of this content. Now I will answer Senator Fedorovich's question about who this bill is for. The bill isn't for the government. I mean, I now, in quotes, enter the shoes of the applicants' representatives. And I don't even know who the petitioner is. This law is, in my opinion, for citizens' safety. So the citizens don't rub off on us like that. Well, if a 100-metre buffer... putting a 100-metre buffer between demonstrations is a problem if we want people to confront each other directly, maybe peacefully, but not necessarily... So I think it's... About the rush question... This question should also be addressed to the Member of the applicant. Yeah, I thought he was with us. But, as I hear it, he's not here. I don't know why the message path. I don't know... Previously, I also answered the question of why not the government's initiative, whether the government saw a problem that Members of Parliament saw or... About the next question... Mr. Senator, you say the government is afraid of manifestation. I think this government isn't afraid of manifestation. No, we do. They manifest themselves in front of the Seym, in front of the Prime Minister's office, in front of the Prime Minister's house. Moreover, these people appear in public media, our public media, Polish media. I remember the previous 8 years of government, and I remember what was seen in these media, what was shown. And I'm surprised, pleasantly surprised that everyone has the right to speak, everyone is shown. Demonstrations of the opposition, CODE are shown. No one's hiding it. Public television shows it. The miners under the house of the Prime Minister, the demonstrators, were also shown. You could have... Someone may not want to show it, but it was shown. And as for the previous period... This is where you talked about mudslapping, about opposition demonstrations, which is now a ruling party. But I also recall demonstrations of miners, nurses. So that here I don't know if it's hit, that somehow it affects the opposition, that it is As I understand it, your question against the opposition suggests. No, it is to ensure the safety of citizens of their own country. And for me, that's the main objective. Although I'm not the designer of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u143	Mrs. Marshal, I'm in the process of correcting, if I may. [[Please.]] First of all, I would like to apologize to the senator very much if I did anything to hurt you. That's not true. I respect you very much, you answer very well, and you don't create an atmosphere of tension here. No, no. But we're in politics, and I'm talking about how it affects... If all organizations are protesting, and only one group is in favor, that means something's wrong. A specific question, if you don't mind. Please remove me from error if in the bill... If, as a manifestor against any tax or in any case, I report to the commune... and when. In order to prevent my manifestation, he will call a religious union and say, "Come in, we will not allow them to be organized." Does making an application mean that the organization has the right to... even though the second one is about to come forward? Is that in the bill? [[Theoretically...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u144	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u145	In theory, yes, if it's cyclical... If the assembly organized by churches or religious unions is a cyclical assembly, then theoretically yes, but, as I have already informed, a moment ago, an amendment was introduced which is going to be removed from the bill... It is a matter of amending the Article. 1, so to speak, the previous condition will apply, so that, I think, the senator's concerns are unfounded. [[And why will it apply?]] There's been an amendment... [[So now it's...]] I don't know, I guess. That's my suspicion. Thank you. [[It's just a suspicion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u146	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek, please. [[Why didn't you have any suspicions about how you were in charge?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u147	Just a few words to fill in, just like the senator asked. Who is this bill for? I think the answer here is quite unambiguous and there is nothing to discuss much about who is gaining on this bill. They're gaining public authority. cyclical gatherings plus a public authority... As we said, power plus churches and assemblies are privileged. That's what makes this bill. These 100 m, which are often discussed, is a more technical matter. It's probably against the constitution, but... first of all, the fact is that the power will be privileged, in the case of the first two points it will gain... There is a restriction on civil rights in accordance with the Constitution... So there's no equality of assembly. There was also a question about the rapporteur. [[Applicants.]] Applicants, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, the applicant was absent and could not be asked what the objectives of the... Such questions could be multiplied at the moment: why so quickly? Why such a record? Why four times a year, not six times? Why 3 years, not 2 years? You could ask all this, but unfortunately there was no Member of the applicant. I would like to remind you that when we had a recent discussion on the changes to the Constitutional Court Act, we were not at the meeting either by the Member of the applicant, the Members of the applicant or by the representatives of the Government. We are pleased that the Minister is here today and that questions can be addressed to the Minister, but unfortunately, at the moment the practice is going in such a direction that, as you can see... The point is, you have to vote quickly and efficiently, and then... When I talk to some voters, I hear they're wondering why the Senate is here. Is the Senate just here to vote on what comes with the Sejm? To accept everything without much discussion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u148	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Spider, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u149	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, but, in some ways, in parallel, also for the second senator. Let's just say we have this situation. Senator Florek, who was a voivode, will feel the President of Warsaw for a moment at 2:00 p.m. On the square of the Three Crosses. These are large, say, 100 thousand manifestations. As I say, both are at the same time, at the same time, the end of both manifestations is in the Castle Square in Warsaw. I'm sure some are for it, others are against it... So it is expected that there will be some confrontation, the consequences of which may even be tragic. How would you decide that in this situation? Which group would go first, and which group would go second, so as not to violate the constitution, not violate the law, so that everything would be okay? How would you decide that? Which of these two groups will go to the demonstration first? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u151	I have questions for both senators. At some point, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski accused some senators of not listening to him very carefully. I tried to listen. Besides, Senator Spider also referred to it. Mr. Senator said that the changes in the bill are also due to the fact that there may be such cases that two competing assemblies or assemblies organized by different organizers will not fit in some place. I'd like to know how many cases the committee knows when the assemblies didn't fit in some place. Have these cases been analyzed? 'Cause I know these... I attended two such assemblies this year, which were not in the planned place, but it was like one assembly organized against the policy of the PiS government towards the Constitutional Tribunal. And second question... Oh, here's where I'd like one of those... 'Cause I don't think there's been a situation like this. Too much. Aren't we talking about an imaginary problem that's not socially relevant? And a second question with the same conclusion. How many times, according to the committee's knowledge, there have been such situations that, in the case of assemblies where there were different organizers or were organized in the same place counter-manifestation... How many times have there been situations where the safety of the conventioners has been compromised? Has the committee analyzed these situations? Did the security threat sometimes result not from the fact that the two manifestations came together, but from the fact that the organizers simply did not take care of security? Is that just... Is the introduction of such a law justified by specific cases that have taken place in the past? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach... Peter Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u153	To answer the first question, I will try to feel like the President of Warsaw for a moment. It won't be easy for me, but I'll feel it for a while. And here's the thing: I'm getting reports, as you said, and I have two reports about organizing a convention in the same place at the same time. What am I gonna do? Well, first of all, I assume that the assemblies are peaceful, that these assemblies are organized for some purpose, that there is a president, that some organization is reporting who will be the president of this assembly, whether the organizer or someone else, because the rules clearly govern what must be included in the application. The Act also states that in the event of such difficulties and such a problem an administrative hearing can be held and one can try to deal with one and the other party so that there is no problem during such a meeting. But it may not be possible to agree that one party will think that it cannot move 20 m to the right or to the left, etc. And then, of course, in accordance with the Act... the Minister may possibly correct me in the act, it is referred to the priority of the application. And there were doubts about that in the case of the previous law, there was a judgment of the Constitutional Court, etc. So in this case, unfortunately, if there was no agreement, but I'm not assuming... Because of the goodwill... There have been several or several cases I've heard of, and there's always been a way to reconcile these matters and the assemblies have been held. I'll answer the senator's question. There was no information at the committee meeting, nor was there a representative of the applicants, so it was difficult to ask... As for the number of assemblies and isn't that, as you asked, an imaginary problem... Probably, because if there's no data... We're working on such an important bill here that she should be properly prepared. It should be given why we're changing it... This requires proper preparation, consultation, etc. But since it wasn't, all I can say is that the committee meeting didn't discuss it. And I'm afraid there's nothing more I can say to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u154	Thank you. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I don't know if I have to answer Senator Spider's question, either. Senator Florek described it quite precisely, but it was based on a solution that has been in place so far, applied under the current rules of law. And after the amendment of the law, after the amendment it can actually come to this situation And no one's denying that. Some particular, as I have read, public ceremonies will, as I say, be more protected. Will this be done in violation of civil rights? Not in my opinion. I mean, if I had a choice... Mr. Senator, as a former voivode, described the issue of authorisation, priority, of course, after fulfilling the requirements, in accordance with the applicable law. But there may also be situations in which consenting to simultaneous manifestations in one place, at one time, will result in a danger or an increased risk. And that's enough, that's enough for me. It seems to me that authorities should take care of the safety of citizens and limit this risk, if possible. The bill is a parliamentary initiative. And as if by the Senator's question, I'm replying to... I'm gonna try to answer it together, too, because that's basically a question... It was one question, but two-part, two-member. Have the analyses been carried out? The representative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration did not present such analyses at the committee meeting, nor did the representative of the Police Headquarters present any such analysis. Can there be such a situation that the counter-manifestotes are... that there will be some, so to speak, skirmishes or dangerous situations? It can always come to that. And that's kind of the second part of the problem about threats. It could always happen. And controlling the crowd... I'm not a specialist in this field, but I've listened to a lot of people who know about it, so I know it's crowd control. Whether it's the organizers or the servants, the police are very difficult if the crowd is distracted. And that's the kind of situation you can see on TV sometimes. Thank God it doesn't happen here, but we can see what demonstrations are like in the world and that sometimes a little spark is enough to... Be aware that a little spark is enough, one more frustrated than others, equipped with e.g. In the knife, and then it can really happen tragedy. So that I think that... And here I don't agree with Senator Flork that this distance of 100 meters is only theoretical. No. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Minister, as well as the representative of the Police Headquarters, confirmed at the committee meeting that these 100 m were important to them. This is an important barrier for them. And maybe that's why they'll be able to control the crowd. Just in case, preventively, you might say. I apologize for allowing myself to refer to the reply given just now by my colleague Senator Flork, but he used the phrase It worked. And the point is that it doesn't work, but that it can be reasonably secured, minimized risk, reduced risk. It's a risk, it's a risk, it's a risk, it's a risk, it's a risk, it's a risk, it's a risk, it's a risk, it's a Senator Florek said that, in principle, demonstrations are peaceful... And in recent times, they are peaceful. Whether this was manifested, as last year, by the representatives of the opposition of that time, now ruling, or ruling, now in opposition, these were peaceful manifestations. But let's make sure that the risk of unforeseen events is as small as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u156	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider would like to ask, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u157	In this regard, because Senator Flork's answer shows that a wall is being reached until there is no decisive criterion, because at the end... Oh, I'll take into account the time of influence. And I assumed that at the same time. Two notifications have arrived. At some point, however, we need a solution that will protect us from the tragic effects of two opposing manifestations. Even this final criterion is that there will be a difference of 100 m or that there will be a priority for safety and who can go first and who can go second. I think that even by accident, Senator Florek has proved that it would be a good idea to change this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u158	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u159	Mr. Senator, I said it worked so far because... I'd like to tell you that I used that phrase because there was no problem. Whenever there are applications, you can talk and everyone can make some concessions, etc. All I said was that if it didn't happen and there wasn't a possibility that theoretically could happen, then the bill clearly states it. It will decide on the time when the application is submitted. So there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u160	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u161	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Mr. Senator... [[Most of them, right?]] Yeah, most of them. Mr. Senator, you've already discussed the amendment that has come into effect. It is an unwritten custom that the rapporteur speaks about something that has not yet been the subject of the committee's work or deliberations. You heard something somewhere. So my question is this: why do you, Senator, discuss only one amendment? Now that you've come this far into the future, and maybe it's okay. Are you not discussing all the possible amendments that will be made during these deliberations? That's the first question. Second question. Was it on the committee's agenda? 'Cause you said this bill is for all citizens. Any positive opinion on this bill? Third question. At the time of the committee meeting, you were sitting... I would like to ask you why, in your opinion, if this was not the subject of the committee's work, was such a fast deadline, without a vacathio legis, the introduction of a law. The fourth question to you, Mr. Senator: do you know how many conventions organised by the same organizer in the same place or on the same route have been held at least four times in the last three years? Were there such conventions? These were questions for the Senator of the majority. If your marshal will allow me, I'll ask the senator of the minority rapporteur right away. Mr. Senator, I have a question of this type: does the bill of conduct have any marks? If so, please tell us what is the European Charter of Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights... Was this even discussed at the committee meeting and are there any similarities in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u162	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Senator Margaret Kopiczko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u163	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Flork. Don't you think you've offended the Senators of Law and Justice by saying that this is not a rule of law? After all, we, in creating this law, are defending our citizens and we want to act in such a way that these assemblies are primarily organised safely. And second question. Why do you limit the institution of the Church, which regularly organizes assemblies in which we also participate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u164	Thank you very much. Please, Senator, the rapporteur for the majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll start with Senator Blackbay's first question. Why am I discussing the amendments I've heard about? As a matter of fact, one of the senators who prepared and submitted these amendments... [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: Did he ask you to review this?]] No. He informed me that such adjustments had been made. What's more, I've allowed myself to approach the secretary's senator, who confirmed it, and I've seen these corrections. I saw what they were about. These are not amendments that are yet to be tabled. They're already in. That's the answer to the first question. Second question. Was there a positive opinion... I'm addressing Senator Blackobay. Mr. Senator, at the beginning of my report, I drew attention to the fact that NGOs were... one, two, three, four, five, six... I've got seven written down here. I also said that they all, except for one, expressed a negative opinion. The need for such a law was stressed by the representative of the association It's not like he just said the bill was good. No, he had some remarks for her. This was the position of one organisation which had a relatively positive attitude towards this project. As for the question of vacathio legis, in my opinion... I am the Senator Rapporteur and it is not my role to judge the bill. Each of us, the senators, will evaluate it individually by pressing the button. As I recall, there are 3 buttons: green, red and yellow. And that'll be our evaluation. One last question to me by Senator Czarnobaj. It's about the number of assemblies, how many assemblies and what assemblies... Four times a year... I don't know. I don't know. That question was also raised yesterday at the committee meeting. I do not know whether statistics on the cyclicality of events are conducted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I think the Police Headquarters, which is a subordinate institution, may have such statistics. I don't know how many cyclical gatherings there were, and what area... I don't know if you've specified that. In Warsaw? The same question was raised at the committee meeting. I don't know if the Ministry's representatives will be able to answer that question today. I don't know the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u166	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u167	Senator Czarnobaj here raised the issue of European law and what was happening at the committee meeting. Of course, information, e.g. The OSCE, which we received at the committee meeting and all the other materials we have at our disposal, shows that this law is incompatible with European law. This is the result of the opinions put forward. Anyone can get to know them. Mrs Kopiczko raised here a very important problem concerning law-making. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing is that the law must apply to all and must comply with the Constitution. Therefore, if there are any doubts As to whether this bill is constitutional or not... We're saying it's definitely against the constitution. I have mentioned several such articles here myself. However, if you believe that this is a law that is properly constructed, you will adopt a resolution here. We will probably believe that this law, if adopted, will require the review of the Constitutional Court, because we believe that it is unlawful. And I'm not gonna say this anymore, you know that, because there are all the opinions we have. Therefore, it is only a question of whether the Constitutional Tribunal... or whether the President of the Republic of Poland will veto this law. As I said, the President of the Republic of Poland theoretically is the President of all Poles, also our President, and therefore probably should analyze it and consider whether this law is compatible among others. with a constitution. Whether he does or doesn't, we'll probably find out tonight, and we'll have the right opinion on what I'm talking about. And as for the Church, as you have said, the assembly, the processions, etc., I have already said that we want the Church to forcefully make the Church happy, the PiS wants to force the Church to make it happy. I'll remind you of the land bill. What was that land bill for? For the Church to be privileged. Isn't the Church dealing with the processions right now, or is she dealing with these ecclesiastical assemblies? They have so far been listed separately, those organized both by the authorities of the state and by the Church. But now it is noted that they have priority over other conventions. It wasn't there before, and it wasn't necessary. Did the Church report such a need to indicate that they should take precedence over other conventions that have been reported? There was no need for that. It's the bill that's changing that now. That's the change. So I really don't see any danger, that if this change hadn't occurred, it would have been difficult to organize some gatherings, processions by the Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u169	Thank you very much. It seems to me that if there is no freedom of assembly, people will do illegal gatherings, because this has been the case in the history of Poland. [[But how can one say that there is no freedom of assembly?]] And you should think about it, especially the senator who is offended and who could be so calmly offended by half of Poland at the moment. [[Mrs. Senator...]] But I'd like to ask you a question... [[Senator, I'd like to ask one of the senators of the rapporteurs.]] And now I would like to address Senator Grabowski or the chairman of the committee, or I do not know who the question is about who is this famous anonymous applicant. Because I'd like to hear those names. I mean, who's the author of this bill, who doesn't have the guts to come here... [[Sejm.]] ...who... Not the Sejm, but there were applicants, and I'd like to ask you about those names. [[The bill is a sejm.]] I'd like to ask you about the names of the people who... Once again, we have such a scandalous situation that people are ashamed to come here and be ashamed to defend their rights, and the Senate is later since possible correction. And to Mr Grabowski, too... [[Senator.]] I'd like to ask you... Because now you're talking about some amendment that's gonna be or isn't gonna be, we don't know exactly what it's gonna be... [[It's complex, Senator.]] ...and you voted in favour of the bill without amendment. [[It wasn't really possible...]] What are you gonna do if your party decides there's gonna be an amendment? What are you gonna do then?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u170	Senator, you're gonna answer that question in a minute. Senator, the Members of the applicant are not obliged to attend our deliberations, and I believe that the Senator has already answered this question several times that he does not know the names of the Members of the applicants. But in a moment, the senator will answer that question himself. I'm still asking you a question... [[But they were supposedly invited.]] I'm asking you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. Are you a senator? Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u171	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I have questions for a minority representative, Senator Flork. Question one. You stated in the course of your justification that you had not heard of any attempts to disrupt the celebrations organized by the Church, so I will immediately mention two to you. The first was in June 2014. It is about behavior, as the media called it then, a happening that tried to disrupt the procession of God's Body in June 2014 in Łódź. And the second was recently, a CODE test that wanted to disrupt the funeral of You didn't notice, but I'd ask you to respond to that. That's the first line. Second line. You guys talk a lot about I don't really know why, but maybe there's some sense in that, so let's try to explain it to you about the possibility of appealing the decision of the voivodship about organizing a cyclical gathering. Isn't it like that according to C.P.A. appeal may be lodged against all such decisions Unless this is a decision issued by the highest authority, i.e. in this case the Minister Is the administrative procedure simply two-way? Such an appeal may be lodged practically from any decision. And the last point of the voivodeship, I would call it, in the implementation of the convention law. You have a lot of complaints about this subject. I don't know if you know, but in July 2015, which is just over a year ago, you passed the law on conventions in which you gave such rights to the voivode. Yes, in specific situations, but still. Well, a voivode or a voivode makes decisions on matters relating to conventions that take place in the area or in the area of monuments of destruction. So you give certain powers to the voivodeship, and in a situation where we want some powers to give The specific, individual, this is a big scream: ay vaj! How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, and then Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u173	I would warn Senator Zdrojewska not to use the word "scandal" because your marshal has already noticed... I recommend reading the Senate Rules of Procedure. It is precisely stated whether the applicant is obliged to attend the meeting. It's not a scandal, Senator. [[But I have the right to know his... I didn't say that... I have the right to know his name.]] But I don't know the name. In the papers... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Senator, you're attending committee meetings. We have repeatedly considered legislative proposals for Members. Our senate projects do not include the name of the applicant or applicants. [[But they're invited to committee meetings. Right?]] I'm not the chairman of the committee, I wasn't in session. You could have, Senator... [[Then ask your piS buddy and answer me.]] [[Mrs. Senator...]] Senator, I'm the Senator Rapporteur. [[Mrs. Senator...]] I think you made a mistake asking questions. I understand that there's freedom... This room is wrong with the room, which is a bit further away. If you want to talk like this, talk like this, you can go to that courtroom, even though there is no Sejm today. [[What kind of statements are these?]] There are other rules in this room here, Senator. Like I said, I don't know the names of the applicants. I don't know who the applicant is. Moreover, as the senator of the committee's rapporteur, I don't need to know that. Once again, I warn the senator not to make any far-reaching conclusions. You're scaring here, Senator, illegal gatherings... And I have pointed out several times that every citizen who wishes to present his views in the form of a convention still has the right to do so. This law does not take anything away, introduces certain limitations, and in my opinion the main limitation is the separation, the separation of counter-demonstration with this 100-metre buffer. It's important to me for security reasons. So don't scare me with illegal demonstrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u174	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators... Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, ad vocem.]] Yes, Senator? [[I'm sorry...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u175	I was just talking about a fact that might happen. When conventions are banned, illegal conventions may be held. And I'm not scaring... We were scared by a friend of yours who said you needed two drops of blood that... [[Mrs. Senator...]] ...you have to transfer to keep the peace for 50 years. [[Do you have any more questions you'd like to ask? Can I ask you a question?]] Mrs. Marshal, this is... [[What is the mode of this statement?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Such a statement was made during the committee's deliberations. You're talking about bloodshed and 50 years of peace... [[Senator, what are you...]] ...and I'm talking about freedom of assembly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u176	You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dear Senators, please ask questions. I ask that you be in the time limit according to the regulations. The question must not last more than 1 minute. I will respect this now, because every question is preceded by a free speech, and there will be time for such speeches in the discussion. I invite you to sign up for the discussion. Now, please ask questions. I will keep an eye on the time limit because this questioning is really turning into a discussion, and the time will come for it later in our sitting. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Florek. [[Bravo, Mrs. Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u177	I answer three questions asked by Senator Czerwinski. The first question referred to disturbing the Church's assemblies. I said I didn't know these situations, and you gave two examples. You said that in June 2014, one person disturbed... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this kind of disturbance is going to happen. There can always be one person disturbing the assembly. You also gave an example of the burial of the Zagonian and the CODE, referring to what we all know, because we all heard something about it. Please note that this was not a meeting reported by the organizers, because it was happening in the church area and in the church area. Everyone has the right to come in, enter the church, and what the reaction was, and what it all looked like, then you all know. I don't need to explain specifically who picked up the big rum that there was a disturbance and who was interfering. I'm not gonna do this because we all know this case. As far as the voivodeship's decision is concerned, you said he was c.p.a. It's already decided... Yeah, it's a regular c.p.a. procedure. These terms are valid, but here the matter is slightly different. As for the decision made by the mayor or the mayor of the city, the decision relating to the assembly, so as not to block the assembly... There's other rules out there. The appeal shall first be submitted to the district court, then to the appeal court, and there shall be 24-hour time limits. The point is not to block the assembly. And in this connection, the voivode does not have any possibility of... Because this assembly would be blocked. This is not regulated and should be regulated in a different way. And you gave an example that the voivode makes a decision... Yeah, about the extermination camps, I think I've been struggling with one decision myself for a year. It was about determining the area of the extermination camp, the geodetic division... You should've pulled it out. Yes, I have made such decisions, but not in such a way, not when it was about as important a matter as assemblies, and this decision is also included in the bill. And the voivode actually makes a lot of other decisions. This is, in my opinion, something normal in the conduct of the voivodeship, it has nothing to do with this unique decision, which concerns cyclical gatherings and which has been regulated in some unknown, inconsistent way. If this bill starts to work, we'll all see what mistakes are in it, but I hope the Senate stands at the level of the task and this bill doesn't come into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u178	Thank you very much. And now you're gonna ask Senator Jacek Włosowicz, and then you're gonna ask Senator Artur Warzocha. Are you the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have only one question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Piotr Flork. Mr. Senator, on the grounds of your position today, you said that you had very serious doubts about the constitutionality of this bill. Not only as regards constitutionality but also as regards compliance with international law. You said it wasn't just you, but your colleagues. This was confirmed by one of your colleagues, who also mentioned it. You recalled the opinion of both national and international institutions, which also speak of this unconstitutionality, led by the Supreme Court, and you shared that opinion. A situation when... [[Ask me a question, Senator.]] Now, Mrs. Marshal. ...Projects are unconstitutional in the last year as regards our House's participation in the legislative process, it is not the first time. You said that you would also submit a question to the Constitutional Tribunal on a possible last resort. I have a question: whether you as a parliamentary club, whether a senate club or a whole parliamentary club, or as a Civic Platform, should not submit an initiative aimed at systemic changes in the country, so that the Constitutional Tribunal, which, in fact, is no longer necessary... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[To what Court?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] ...because before that, you could see that the projects... [[Like I said, I'll watch my time. I'd like to ask you a specific brief question.]] Do you think that the Constitutional Tribunal should not be terminated? [[Voice from the Chamber: After all, the Court is wound up.]] Because the opinions that are there show that nothing is needed at all. It was already obvious that the project was unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u180	Senator, you're asking me a very strange question, because we don't want to liquidate the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't ask me that question, because I can argue that it's against this article, this and this constitution. We have also filed many times in the case of other laws... we have declared the laws incompatible with the constitution. The Court is in a state of law, in a state governed by law, from which to settle this. So we only hope that the Court will return to its action, that it will function and issue judgments and judgments that we will abide by. Let me remind you that President Lech Kaczyński also said that the judgments of the Court must be observed. I even personally had the opportunity to talk to him about it and said that the judgments of the Court must be respected. And so far they have been respected. What happened now that the Court is functioning as it is, is that you all know and you can answer this question yourself. I can make it clear that we are defending the Constitutional Court, and we do not want, like you, to eliminate it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u181	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator... Quiet, please. Senator Warzocha, please. I'd like to ask you a brief specific question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u182	Thank you. I have two questions for the rapporteur of minority proposals, Senator Flork, who had previously used such a formulation that, in the light of the rules introduced, there will be a privileged power or public authority which will, for example, wish. organize some kind of manifestation. Based on local examples, what happened less than a month ago in my town, Czestochowa I'd like to tell the senator that there were two manifestations in my town one day. The first was organized by patriotic environments, it was a march of independence, which I was one of the co-organizers. Of course, it was peaceful and did not interfere with the law in any way. In the afternoon there was a ceremony, also of the nature of the manifestation of such independence and patriotic, organized by local authorities, i.e. authorities also in some sense state, because they represent the state at local level. Let me remind you just for the record that these are the authorities from the SLD and the Civic Platform. Does this mean that the local government is, in some sense, privileged to organise such a ceremony in the light of the current rules? Yes or no, Senator? Senator Wach inspired me to ask you a second question. The senator asked if one man standing on the route of manifestation less than 100 m, who will lift up, let us say, a banner with some inscription that will critically refer to the slogans proclaimed by this legally organized manifestation, would violate the provisions of the law or not. Then I'd like to ask Senator Flork about this. If there were a man with a banner in the place of this man who, instead of this banner, would lift up, say, a chair, and in this manifestation would go e.g. Former President Bronisław Komorowski, and spontaneously several people around this protestor would also start raising some unfavorable to Mr Bronisław Komorowski, former president, shouting... Does this mean that this counter-manifestation less than 100 m from this manifestation will also be subject to some restrictions, or will that mean a violation of the law? Because I will remind you that a year ago, more than a year ago, during the election campaign, just during the election rally, this situation took place, a man was detained, interrogated, if I remember correctly, was sentenced to detention, and after a year with a slight wrap he was acquitted and cleared of all charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u183	Thank you for these questions. [[It's up to the authorities to decide...]] Mr Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u184	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to refer to the last article in the bill. It has been a long time since there have been so many serious constitutional charges and relating to the non-respect of international law with regard to such a small submission. Did you say that Art. 3, which provides for the immediate entry into force of this law, immediately after the date of its publication, in fact prevents prior verification of the provisions on their constitutionality? That's my first question. And second question. Mrs Marshal and Mr Rapporteurs, has the position of the Senators of Law and Justice changed so dramatically in relation to what was not so long ago, in the presentation that President Komorowski proposed? Then Senator Jackowski, Senator Dobkowski and the other senators who aren't here said it was a violation of liberty, a violation of civil rights. I've got quotes here. Do you share those views, or has there been a change in the position of the Senators of Law and Justice? I ask because the further restrictions of the state do not threaten, and those were unacceptable, they were called very sharp words.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u185	Mr. Senator, are these questions for both your rapporteurs? [[Yes.]] Good. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u186	First question, Senator Warzocha's question. As for countermandation, or this one person, as I gave an example, that this is countermandation... We know what the convention notification procedure looks like today, what it might look like after the changes. At least two people are needed to report the assembly. If it has been declared, then it is an assembly, if it has not been, it is not an assembly. The cases you're talking about have happened and will happen. Every public person like the President, the Prime Minister, of course, has protection and must be prepared at any time for something to fly towards her, whether it's a cake or a chair. These are normal cases all over the world. Public figures have to deal with this. That's what the president's protection is for, and I don't think it has anything to do with the public assembly. Senator Augustine's question about the article. 3 of the Act and the date of its entry into force, I will say that this is not normal as regards the way in which the laws are dealt with, that laws are adopted which enter into force immediately after the announcement. It is written that it is possible, but it must be exceptional accidents, it must indeed be the basis for the bill to enter into force earlier. In the case of such laws, the best is a very long vacathio legis, six months, a month, three months, so that it can be well prepared for this, so that it can also be assessed whether this law is compatible with the constitution or not. As you know, when the bill comes into force immediately, the next day, and even before, the president, because he had to take a vow at night, because this morning the sentence... To avoid such situations, it is good to take longer vacathio legis, calmly. In the case of this law, we did not hear any arguments at the committee's meeting for the fact that it had to be introduced immediately. Well, unless one of you justifies it. But I don't know what that's about. So that here I can only present to the senator such a position that we also had a discussion about the date of entry into force of the law at the committee meeting. Yeah, but the record is what it is. It is possible that amendments to this Article will be tabled. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u187	Thank you. And Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, when it comes to vacathio legis, art. 3, this is where my previous speaker, the Senator rapporteur for the minority proposal, pointed out that an amendment had been made. I don't know how she'll be considered, we'll probably... Since legislative proposals have been received, there will be a meeting of the Joint Committees and we will be considering these amendments, whether to accept them or not. And just one of these amendments extends the vacathio legis of the bill to 14 days. I don't know if that amendment's gonna happen. The second question concerned the revision of the position of Law and Justice. I don't see that change. What we are talking about here is not, in my opinion, a violation of citizens' rights. Citizens have the right to gather, have the right to manifest their views, have the right to hold assemblies, no one takes these rights away from them. If you have read this bill, you have seen that these rights are not taken away. So that I don't fully understand this question, because... if, as I said, for someone it is a problem to manifest within 100 meters of another manifestation, countermanifestation, it means that I don't feel that much need to manifest something. Here, among other things, in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, there has been an accusation that, according to the regulations of the OSCE, there should be an opportunity to collect... I'll read it in a second. Almost at the same time and place... They should be in sight and hearing of their participants. Well, I realize that part of society may have eye problems and hearing problems, but 100 meters isn't such a barrier that people won't see or hear each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u189	Mrs. Marshal, because Mr. Senator admitted that he did not understand my question, I would like to tell him that the limitation is in my view that the right to hold a meeting can be blocked at a specific time and place. This is a restriction on civil rights. And you say you don't understand what this limitation is. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u190	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you come from such an assumption that the law in our country is in bad faith. And many times here, in this Chamber, you have come to such conclusions, you have sought, as an opposition, total opposition, such elements, even in the draft laws that were acceptable to you... You've been looking for bad faith from the applicants, whether it's the government or the MPs. You're looking for these... There's no bad will here. Here, in this bill, in my opinion, there is no malice. [[Probably the same as in the Court's case.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u192	Don't go into polemics. Now is the time to ask questions. Thank you, senator, for answering my questions. Please ask Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u193	Senator rapporteur, I am interested in the vague, vague wording in the article. 26a in the mouth. 1. There, this novel is mentioned, this novel is introduced, that is, meetings organized cyclically by the same organizer, etc. And it's said that during national and national holidays... As far as the state is concerned, I understand. But tell me what national holidays it's all about. Will the Polish language day, our national language, fall within this scope? What kind of Christmas is it gonna be? Name a national holiday, a few. [[Other than state-owned.]] Other than state-owned. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a legislative mistake.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u194	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's the end of the question, isn't it? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Senator Robert Dowhan. Please, Mr. Senator, now you're asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u195	Thank you very much, Marshal. I also have a question for a fellow rapporteur who fights so bravely. Mr. Senator, in English, because I don't understand... Could you enlighten me, please? You don't know who put it in the Seym, you don't know who was invited, it's all so anonymous... And yet we proceed more openly. I am surprised that when a parliamentary project is being processed It doesn't matter what person he comes out from... If he's so important to you and you're defending him so much, I'm surprised those benches in the back are empty today, and you don't know. Don't you know? Who's behind this? I'm very curious, please answer honestly. And I'm surprised that... it seems like we're intelligent people, so pretending you don't know what's going on, it's a little out of place, 'cause it's less. I'm going to say our rank in plural. Right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u196	Mr. Senator, you are assigning to the Senator the intentions that I think the Senator doesn't have. Of course, the same questions can be asked once again, but please ask: ask such questions as have not yet been answered in this debate. Let's not repeat the questions. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. As far as the question is concerned, I will stress that the Vice-Marshal, and recently the Marshal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, then... I don't know what you don't understand about national and state holidays, you should understand... [[No, no, you know, I'm asking you. But if you're asking me, I'll answer you.]] Yes... [[The concept of public holidays is clear, public holidays are defined.]] Yes. [[I ask about national holidays, what holidays are national holidays.]] November 11th, for example. [[It's statewide.]] [[Voice from the hall: State.]] Not national? I want you to think more about it. [[Mr. Senator, you have to use strict legal terms. It's Polish day...]] [[Voice from the room: National.]] [[...national. So?]] [[Voice from the room: National reading.]] [[It's at some point...]] [[National reading of Mr. Tadeusz.]] But it's not a holiday... [[Was this discussed at the committee meeting?]] No, it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. [[I see.]] That's one part, and as for Senator Dowhan's curiosity and his request for enlightenment... You used that expression here. For me, here's the key word. That we're intelligent people. The question about the Members of the applicants has been here several times, for the first time an hour ago, and there is a seym and there, Mr Senator, you can check it out. I, as Senator rapporteur, have no obligation... I don't know. I'm telling you this honestly. Who, what group of Members were applicants for this bill, but in a moment, when I finish answering that question, I will go to the Sejm and find... If you, Mr. Senator, repeat that question in about 15 and 10 minutes, I'll answer it. So much for this aspect of intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u198	Thank you very much. Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u199	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have the following question for the senator of the minority proposal, Senator Flork. Recently, the political leaders of the Civic Platform have spoken in such a way that the legally and democratically elected authority in Poland will fight with the help of the street and abroad. In your view, as the senator of the minority proposal that you sign on behalf of the Civic Platform, do you believe that this minority proposal is the implementation of the idea that the Civic Platform is making?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u200	Thank you very much. And Senator Krzysztof Elephant, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Which senator are you referring to? Mr. Piotr Flork?]] There will also be a question for Senator Flork, but the first question is to Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. It concerns whether the agenda of spontaneous gatherings was discussed at the committee meeting and whether, in the senator's view, these unchanged records of spontaneous gatherings do not show that this law is not restrictive, but introduces certain changes to allow for the safe and non-violent conduct of the assemblies. And to Senator Piotr Flork, I have a question about something else. Do you consider it appropriate to be in stadiums, especially football stadiums, the phenomenon of caching groups of fans with special zones, that is, separating fans of the A team from fans of the B team? Is this, in your opinion, a restrictive approach to the freedom of cheerleading, or does this serve to improve the level of security of these two groups of fans?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u202	Please, first Senator Piotr Florek and then Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u203	Thank you. I answer the first question concerning the statements of the leaders of the Civic Platform that power will fight with the help of the street. [[Not power, opposition.]] Sorry, opposition. That's what I'm saying. I don't know, but I didn't hear them. [[Mrs. Komorowska...]] That's the law of the opposition. Such gatherings are just for the opposition to demonstrate, not to demonstrate the government, and right now... [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] ...we're going in a completely different direction. I already said I wouldn't be surprised if the government started to strike soon, because it's actually... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Photo!]] [[Photo!]] To answer this question, I must say that this was not discussed at the committee meeting, so I cannot comment on it. I answer to Senator Elephant. I could probably tell you about fans and stadiums for an hour or two. If you want to come with me. You know, set up a meeting like this, we can discuss it, 'cause I once had the opportunity to close the whole stadium. You remember that banner about kneeling in front of the Polish master and many other cases that were... I also closed the stands of those ultras who clearly violated the rules. Well, the games were interrupted because of the smoke, you just had to stop them. We know the behavior of fans, and that's why they separate themselves from local fans at the stadium. Football is quite different than conventions. Fans have rights. I'm a fan myself, and I've been to almost all of my team's games, so I think that... well, as for this topic, I'm not going to continue, but I'm going to finish by saying that there was no discussion at the committee meeting on this subject, Mr. Senator. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u204	Okay, don't make a sensation out of a situation that's not a sensation, it's normality. I'll continue. Your marshal had to leave for a while. [[Mr. Marshal, may I respond?]] Of course. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u205	I'll answer Senator Elephant's question, but if you'll excuse me, I'll now allow myself to answer a question that I haven't answered to Senator Dowhan. Thus: Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski is authorised to represent the applicants in the draft bill, and the applicants are Mr Waldemar Andzel, Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Mr Marek Ast, Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Ms Barbara Bartus, Ms Joanna Borowiak, Mr Wojciech Buczak, Mr Waldemar Buda, Ms Lidia Burzyńska... I can still read, Mr. Senator. You want to know the full list? [[Why aren't they here today? Why aren't any of the applicants here?]] Well, that's not a question for me anymore, Senator. [[The rules don't provide for...]] I can read it to the end. Would you like that? [[No.]] Because I can read this list to the end. [[They're gonna be history...]] This is in the archives of the passed laws on the Sejm's website. I think the senator as an intelligent person can handle it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Good.]] About... [[My God, wouldn't your marshal have a problem letting go like this...]] As for the answer to Senator Krzysztof Słoń's question, as I recall, the theme of spontaneous gatherings at the committee meeting did not appear so directly. It was more in the context of the statements of the representatives of the associations that the introduction of certain regulations in this law, i.e. this priority, could result in the blocking of spontaneous manifestations. That's not true. I have already pointed out to the opposition senators that, in their opinion, each or almost every bill brought forward by the governing party, Members or Government, is... Well, they're looking for elements that, as I say, result from bad will, they're looking for bad will in them. As far as the law is concerned, the law, in my view, is not a restrictive law, but a regulation, as also stressed by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. This is a matter of regulating certain issues that were not previously regulated, and now are regulated in such a way as to ensure the safety of the public, the citizens of that country. [[That is why I asked if you felt that leaving the records of spontaneous gatherings actually did not mean that...]] It proves exactly that there is no... [[...the bill is not restrictive at all.]] ...bad will. [[In my opinion, the possibility of spontaneous gatherings shows some liberalism in the organization of assemblies.]] I agree with that view, Senator. What is more, there is also concern for the organizers and for those attending these conventions. Safety considerations That's what I'm talking about. Thank you. [[Thank you.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u206	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, for your kindness. Thanks to your kindness, the situation in the Senate has returned to normal for a moment. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. This law raises a lot of interpretation doubts, as has been mentioned here many times today. I would like to draw attention to the doubts as to the wording of this law concerning the voivodeship. I think that's a very vague wording. It seems more appropriate: the voivode of the locals. Otherwise Maybe it'll sound paradoxical. It could be concluded that the Łódź voivodship could prohibit a cyclical assembly in Poznań or Gdańsk. Please inform me if you intend to make an amendment in order to clarify this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u208	And Senator Waldemar Slugocki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'm asking both senators a question. Although with stubborn maniacs, the senator makes us aware that the bill under review will increase the security of Poles, I want to ask As I say, both senators Whether during the committee meeting there was a discussion on the safety of Poles during the assemblies during the earlier periods, since 1990, and whether, in your opinion, thanks to the regulations in force after 1990, the congregating Poles might not have felt safe. Do you know of such cases as: There have been drastic violations of the law and perhaps some tragic events? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u210	Please, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, and then Mr Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In his question, Senator Rybicki drew attention to the lack of indication of the voivodship. I think, although I'm not a legislator, I'm also not a lawyer, that the Legislative Bureau wouldn't overlook such a mistake. It is clear from the law that the primary authority over local governments is the voivode responsible for the given voivodship. As far as replacements are concerned, they are also issued by the voivode. In the case of the Silesian Voivodeship, it is issued by the Silesian Voivodeship, in the case of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Mazowiecki, so that I think that such clarification is not necessary in this case, although I may be wrong. Perhaps the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, if you repeat your question, will take a different position... Senator Slugocki's question about the analysis. At the committee meeting, there was no such discussion about the manifestation, the assemblies after 1990. There was a security issue at assemblies, demonstrations in recent years. In fact, representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Police Headquarters have confirmed that there have been no major serious incidents during previous conventions. I'm not an applicant, there are no applicants, but I also understand the intention. This law is a preventive, preventive, risk-limiting act. The point is not to act like it's just when something happens, something bad, not good, we're gonna start changing the law all of a sudden. I think I've exhausted the answer to the question. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u212	I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u213	So, Mr. Senator... I'll ask the senator, and then I'll ask Senator Flork for an answer. So, Mr Senator, for 26 years it was not necessary to take preventive measures, but two weeks ago the parliamentary majority in Poland suddenly enlightened and it turned out that after 26 years it was necessary to introduce legislation that would be preventive, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u214	May I, Mr. Marshal? Senator, let me put it this way: human memory is unreliable, but, as I remember correctly, recently as a result of the initiative of former President Komorowski, the convention law was amended, which means that for 26 years nothing has been seen. Some basics... Unless President Komorowski unfoundedly applied for the amendment of the Assembly Act, not another.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question. [[You're still Senator Florek.]] Oh, and Senator Florek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u216	Just a little bit, then. As far as the voivodship is concerned, it is indeed, as we read, that the application in question is made to the voivodship, etc. Probably if it were for the right voivodeship, it would be more precise, but it is a matter of legislation. You'd have to think about it, analyze it, because it's possible that an amendment like this would be useful. As for the safety of Poles at the assemblies after 1990, I can say that it was a bit different, but if we consider the last time, we will notice that there is no doubt that all manifestations are peaceful. It also depends on the opposition, what the opposition is. The present opposition is preparing, as you can see, very peaceful gatherings of this type and there are no such situations. But I can't say it's happened in the past. Thank you. [[But you're lying, Peter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u218	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I ask one question to the minority rapporteur, Senator Flork. Well, you've used a pretty figurative concept, but perhaps it's too short-lived that this law puts power before a citizen as far as the rights of the assemblies are concerned. Only that the wording of the Act does not apply to meetings organised by public authorities, both in the Law of 1990 and in the Act which you adopted in July 2015. The question is: do you know of cases where the municipal authority has allowed a group of private individuals, an association, at the time and place where the public authority was organized to hold a meeting? Already leading to absurdity: e.g. There's a security briefing at the Unknown Soldier's Grave and the president of the city of Warsaw has allowed someone on the outside to demonstrate... Were there really such behaviors? Is the expression "power" in front of the people, "power" in front of the citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u219	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u220	Mr. Senator, I confirm what I said. You cited the provisions of the current convention law. I will read it again: the provisions of the Act do not apply to gatherings organized by public authorities and held within the framework of the activities of churches and other religious associations. That's what happened so far. Right now, it's becoming an art. Point 1 and point 2 are added to the Act. I'm gonna quote him now. The meetings organised in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in this Act may not be held at the place and time at which the meetings referred to in paragraph 1 are held. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So all the conventions that we've been talking about, where there's a motion for the mayor, the mayor, the president, and so on... As it turns out, the contested law says that the assemblies that were written in the current convention bill have, so to speak, priority. The Act clearly and clearly defines it. It wasn't before, but the amendment act. It brings it in. She's turning off... These assemblies have priority. There wasn't a rule like that before. I confirm that after this change of power... Not to mention the cyclical assemblies, because they are also before... In the hierarchy of the assembly I was talking about, first there are assemblies organized by public authority, then there are cyclical assemblies and then there are See the previous convention law for which an application must be submitted to the mayor, the mayor, etc. [[I'm sorry. If you don't mind, I'll be more specific...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u221	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u222	Perhaps the senator didn't understand my question. How'd it go so far? Did public - authority assemblies have such priority? I'd like you to set an example. Have the authorities of a community ever allowed the assembly to be organized at a time when the public authorities were organizing, let's call it, their assembly? Have there been cases like this? You're saying that power will now be in front of a citizen, and I think it's always been that way. It was just common sense. It's just that the recipe you added, the one you read, the mouth. 2, which is precisely the basis to be followed. Perhaps that wasn't the case before. I'd like to get your answer to the question, in which cases... Briefly: when did the municipal authorities allow other conventions to be held, including those organised by the State? Let's leave the churches, talk about the state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u223	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u224	Mr. Senator, that wasn't the rule. [[Exactly.]] The question remains, then, why are we changing it now and why are we introducing such a provision. I would like one of the Members mentioned here to be very large in reply to these questions. I don't know that. The bill changes something, says that some conventions take precedence over others. It wasn't there before. Why is it done if it's unnecessary, Senator? I'd like to ask... I won't be able to answer that question because I'm just a minority rapporteur. Thank you. [[But you don't really know the case. I just want you to get it out of your system.]] I don't know. I didn't analyze it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u226	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. And thank you for the trouble and the names. I read that the rapporteur should be Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, a Member who was one of the authors of the bill today. I understand you don't need to know this, but maybe it's to check out why he's not here with us? That's my first question. I'd also like to say that it's honey for my heart to see Today, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is in a permanent position. Maybe it's some sort of sign of normality. Let's get to the next question. Mr. Senator, freedom of assembly is a fundamental human and citizen's right as expressed in the article. 50 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This law was also confirmed by Poland in the framework of ratification of various international acts: the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The struggle for freedom of assembly, alongside the fight for freedom of speech, religion and association, was one of the foundations of solidarity, the social movement that led to the collapse of communism. What happened, Mr. Senator, that today, after all these years, you are somehow trying to turn it all upside down? What happened today that we have to do in a very fast mode, to which you have already used us, to process something that doesn't really... bring too much?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u227	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u228	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. To answer the first question, Mr. Senator, let me put it this way: you have no divisive attention. I realize that... when I started answering the question about the applicants, I started with... I mentioned the name of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski. You didn't hear it because you were busy with something else. It wasn't until then that you listened. You can find it in a transcript. I mentioned that to represent... [[Gentlemen, I want you to focus on the meth lab.]] But that was the senator's question. Why is there no Mr Czartoryski, who is authorized by a group of Members to represent them? This question should be addressed to Mr Czartoryski, not to me. Besides, I'm referring you to the Senate's Rules of Procedure again. In the past, such a question has already been raised, in which it is clearly and quite clear that the rapporteur is not obliged to attend the Senate meeting. Maybe, but he doesn't have to. [[I get it. I don't think you understand.]] I already answered your question. Your first question isn't addressed to me. [[I mean, why, today, when we're investigating such an important bill, there's no one...]] But that's not a question for me. There is a rapporteur who has been, so to speak, appointed by a group of Members to present the draft before the Senate. We should ask the rapporteur why he is not here. I don't have a phone number for Mr Czartoryski. [[I was just about to ask if you had a number.]] No, I'm afraid not. I don't have an MP for that one. I have many others, but... maybe for the future. [[You got it for me, I understand.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u229	Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u230	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you to announce a break from 3:00 to 3:30, which is needed. We're gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u231	Good. I'll announce a half-hour break at 3:00 p.m. at the request of the Civic Platform Club. Gentlemen, I ask you to ask questions that concern the committee's report and to formulate these questions so that they are substantive. [[May I?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u232	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm answering the second question. Mr. Senator, you're saying there's been some kind of upside-down legal order. Many times there was a thread in this room that we took freedom to gather together, etc. No, we're just regulating certain issues in this bill. No one's taking anything from anyone with this bill. As I have said many times, the indication of the potential will of the drafters of this law is on the agenda. As I said before, in the case of most of the laws that are being processed here, you are trying as a total opposition to point out evil will. Even in the laws that you support, you're looking for some bad will and you're looking for some subtext. So that in my opinion, Senator, this bill does not turn the system upside down, it merely cleans it up, reduces the potential risks that may occur, and potentially protects the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u233	Thank you. Senator Rybicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u234	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the Senator of the rapporteur. During the committee's work or at another point in time, did he express his opinion in a different manner to the trade union? Because the right to strike... [[Voice from the room:...to the demonstration.]] ...whether the freedom to manifest their views are the fundamental rights for which Solvency fought and are also the foundations of a democratic rule of law. I remember from the previous debate, from the debate on the amendment of the Conventions Act last year, that Solvency opposed the proposed solutions, which involved the crossing of demonstrations, saying that this was an attack on civil liberties. In this debate, are representatives of the trade union or other unions But what I'm talking about is the solidarity they took the floor and put their opinions on it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u235	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u236	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm not familiar with this position of the NSZZ.Solidarity. As far as I'm concerned, the Senate has not been influenced by this relationship's opinion on this bill. This was not the subject of a committee meeting, there were no representatives of the NSZZ That's it. I do not know this position, and I think that Solvency could express her opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u237	Senator Dowhan still has a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u238	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. If together with a group of friends I watch a Polish football game, a football game, we won quite unexpectedly with a very difficult rival, we'll go out on the street and write on a card of the PZPN rally, will it be an illegal gathering? What's it gonna look like under the law? [[You can scream "Polonia."]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u239	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will answer, Senator, in this way: in the light of my knowledge and what I have read, in this respect this law has not changed. And if you're planning on organizing something, so to speak, a friendly gathering, I recommend you read the contents of the bill. Before organizing such a convention, it would be worth knowing what the rules are and what the congregation is and what the congregation is not. So that's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u241	Senator Kilian, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u242	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the Senator of the rapporteur. In the administrative process there is a dual state of decision making, and according to this law the decision may be issued by the voivode. And there's no record of who's gonna be able to answer whether the decision is legal or illegal. [[Voice from the room: Power.]] Yes. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u243	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u244	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in the code of administrative procedure, decisions are, in principle, two-way decisions, although there are exceptions to this rule. Not many, but they do happen. On the other hand, as far as the appeal is concerned, the procedure for this appeal, which is not set out here, I must be honest with you that I am unable to answer that question because such a question was not at the committee meeting. Moreover, the Legislative Office also did not raise any objections to the procedure proposed in Article. 12. This was not the subject of the meeting, but e.g. Nor can the alternative decision issued by the voivode be challenged in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u245	In the Code of Administrative Procedure, there is a dual existence. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Yes.]] If the voivode issues a negative decision, the party shall be entitled to appeal. [[Yes.]] So in this process, there must be a party who will decide whether the decisions made by the voivode are incompatible... Will it be the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u246	I don't know that. [[Well, who can answer that question?]] It wasn't on... as I say, a representative of the Legislative Bureau didn't pick up that thread, didn't point to it as incomplete, wrong, or... [[There's no record of...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u247	Mr. Senator, I suggest you address this question to the representative of the government. [[Good. Thank you.]] [[Maybe a government representative will know the answer and tell us what it looks like.]] We're entering legal matter. Let us not require such knowledge from senators. Is there anything else you'd like to ask the senator? [[No, thank you. I'll ask you later.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs' senators. I would like to welcome the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Sebastian Chwałk. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, As regards the position of the Ministry of Interior and Administration for this project, this was already raised both at the meeting of the committee in the Sejm and at the meeting of the Senate committee yesterday. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration will support any solution that increases the security of citizens. Solutions that protect life and health will always be supported by us. There were some questions here. I don't know if I'll be able to answer all of them. One last question about the mode... According to the bill we're considering... In the Article introduced. 26e, that's in the article. 1 The amending act refers to the fact that to meetings organised cyclically by the provisions of Article. 8, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in accordance with Article 21 (3) of Regulation It's about the provisions of the law in force. It is these provisions that lay down the issue of appeal against individual decisions. Nothing changes in this case. There's a court appeal here. The governor shall issue a decision by entering an entry concerning the cyclical assembly and on this basis the local government The governor, the mayor, the president, issues an appropriate ban; of course, if there is a collision. The decision on the prohibition shall be subject to a normal appeal before the court. If, in turn, the voivode refuses to enter a cyclical assembly, then such a decision is dismissed. The appeal procedure has been preserved here. Art. Fourteen hundred and twenty of the Congress Act... I don't know if I should quote them all. I think any of you can get to know them. That's where we're talking about the different stages... [[Senator Wiesław Kilian: Minister, who is this reference to?)]] To court, just like it is right now. There's no problem here. The Assembly Act is an exception, because there is a judicial road, not an administrative road. These are provisions in force from 2015. As regards the location of the voivodship This information was given here. At the moment, the voivodship is making decisions about gatherings in the extermination camps. As you can see, in special situations, the voivode, I would say, is already functioning. It also operates in the current law as regards issues relating to voivodship crisis management centers, which in special cases... The voivodeship administration gives such consent, so it's not a novelty. This is another duty imposed on the voivode who will register cyclical assemblies. About the issues... The question was, why isn't it a government project? I would remind you that in the legislative initiative, the Constitution gives equal rights to at least five actors: the President, the Sejm At least 15 Members of the Senate, 100 000 citizens and, of course, the government. Each of these initiatives can work equally. Those laws that have been invoked... As I hear, the amendments abolish the proposed provision of the Article. 2c, therefore, the current Article. 2 The Law on Assembly, which at the moment removes from the scope of the Law of Assembly organized by public authorities and assemblies organized within the framework of the activities of churches and religious unions... The repeal of this provision, by means of an amendment, will continue to result in the situation that these two specific types of entities will be excluded from the rule of law, so it is basically possible to say that this priority and so... He was already in that bill. As we've heard, there's never been a situation where events organized by public authorities or... Church authorities or religious unions have never been treated worse than... and in principle they have been given priority, so it can be understood that that provision was a clarification provision because there was no clear interpretation. At the moment, current laws remain, which de facto remove these two types of conventions from the strict rule of law, thus giving them a certain primacy. As you can see, this issue has not been a problem so far and there have been no constitutional doubts about it. We've all heard about the episcopate consultation. I shouldn't have said anything about it, but I can quote an article. 17 concordat, which commands the Republic of Poland to provide conditions for the pursuit of religious practices. In some sense, the introduction... of the primacy of churches or religious unions can be regarded as the implementation of this law. Senator Florek mentioned that he had been a voivode for eight years and that the proposal to include the voivode in the decision is unnecessary or unnecessary. I think the senator remembers that for at least seven years, under the Assembly Act, he was an appeal body, so he also made such decisions. It's not a novel. I think I've answered most of those questions that haven't been answered yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u249	At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. We have a long list that the secretary runs. Senator Kilian will be the first to speak. The Minister answered the question in part... [[That's a question.]] Do you have any others? [[No, thank you.]] According to the rule, each of you... I'm asking each of your senators to exhaust... [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u250	The question to which there is no precise answer: why, despite the existence of the Law on State relations with the Church, which among others. regulates religious gatherings and other celebrations... Yesterday, at the committee meeting, you were unable to say why this law once again regulates this matter on a privileged basis, thus doing a bear's favour to the Church, which did not complain. Second question to which the rapporteur Senator He didn't answer me either. The question is: do you understand the essence of the rule that says that something that is a congregation does not have to be an assembly? It's an art. 1. This is all the more important because you will be a realist, with the help of voivodships, of cyclical gatherings. And the third question. Has this law, which has in its records links the voivodeship with the local government, even interference of the voivodeship in the operation of the local government, in particular in ensuring the order of assembly and demonstration, been consulted at a meeting of the council of the common government and the local government?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u251	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u252	I will try to answer these questions, although they should in principle be addressed not to me, but to applicants. Nevertheless, first of all, safety issues... Ensuring security is spread between the local government and the voivode, in fact, the contractor of this operation is the Police, if the local government does not have a city guard. Anyway, this responsibility is now spread out in every situation, so it's not like the voivode enters the powers of the local government, because he can always step in in supervisory mode. There's nothing new here. As far as consultation with the Church is concerned, yes, with the Episcopate Commission... [[Consultation... I claim that these matters are regulated in the Act on relations between Poland and the Church, which are derived from the Act on the Concordat.]] Just now... [[It is precisely regulated there, and here there is a superregulation, or bonus for the Church, as the representatives of Ordo Iuris.]] Already in the current law, in my humble opinion, there is such a bonus, because this law actually removes church organizations from the rigour of reporting. At this point, the Church does not have to report the procession. If anyone else wants to... [[But where is it?]] This is in the current law in Article. 2. If they don't apply... [[It's that record now...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Right now...]] [[Aren't you...]] What's the new record for? That, of course, would have to be asked by the applicant. However, the applicant probably considered that this would be more precise because no one de facto interprets the current provision in any way. [[Can I, uh, apologize so I don't repeat...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u253	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u254	How are you gonna do that, that bonus for the Church?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u255	There will be no such bonus, because, as I understand, there is an amendment. [[When the bill is passed.]] If it does, then we will consider each request individually, the voivode will consider the request if it is affected. [[No, it's by law that bonus...]] If the amendment is taken into account, this will not be the subject at all, so we will be wondering when we have to, the voivode will have to implement it. [[Voice from the room:...There is no such amendment.]] [[Senator Rybicki. Please...]] You just confirmed that there is such an amendment, so I don't understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u256	No, I don't have any corrections yet. [[What's this? Is it or isn't it...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: This is or is not there, because I have...]] Good. Let's get back to the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u257	Mr. Marshal, I ask you to answer the question, to justify what is something else that is not an assembly. It's in the article. 1. Do you understand that? Maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u258	I can interpret it in such a way that this applies, for example. situations in which no form of assembly has been reported so far were natural, spontaneous, but were cyclical and concerned, for example. important events. This is about something that was not under the rigour of the Assembly Act, because for some reasons the organizers did not consider it necessary to make a notification, and the authorities of the local government, which should de facto enforce it, did not verify or prohibit it in any way, so it took place cyclically. That's how I understand it. [[Minister, is that an amendment, or isn't it?]] That's not a question for me. I just heard everybody... [[Minister, you said there was an amendment.]] A moment ago, in one of the first speeches, the Senator rapporteur said that he had heard of such an amendment... that means that such an amendment was made, so I just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u259	Excuse me... [[Mr. Marshal, can you confirm that the amendment has been tabled?]] ...let me... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules are that I give the floor. Okay? I'm not driving... We exchange in the proceedings, and not always the marshal's leader knows what happened an hour ago. I confirm that Senator Martynowski has tabled amendments to the Act amending the Law on Assembly Law. [[What?]] Amendment 1: in Article. 1 point 1 is deleted. Amendment 2: 3 the words 'on the date of publication' shall be replaced by 'on the expiry of 14 days from the date of publication'. Such amendments have been formally tabled and are now in the Legislative Office. [[Voice from the room: But he didn't perform. Can I put it together?]] [[He didn't perform.]] [[It's a formal matter.]] You're welcome. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u260	Mr Marshal, the procedure is that the amendments to the bill, which has been adopted by the committee, are made during the debate. [[It's just that.]] We are still in the debate stage We're not. We are at a questioning stage with the Minister, so these amendments are as if they were informally tabled, but some colleagues already know about them. That's why I have a question if that's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u261	But the agenda item has been opened. They are submitted to the protocol and I have informed you of this. So I don't see any violations here. [[They're officially notified.]] There was a question, the subject was raised, so I'm informing you. [[I'm sorry, I asked because things have been different so far. Thank you.]] I don't see any flaws in the procedure here. Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u262	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there are many descriptions in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, which are to be relied on by the various provisions, but there is basically no information as to why this law is adopted. She's not here. Minister Błaszczak in the parliamentary debate said that it was for security reasons, because there could be 2 demonstrations and there would be a brawl; it was such an inaccurate quote from Minister Błaszczak. But what happened that the state abdicates from its powers? After all, the State has a police function, and so far it has had this function, and under this function it has had means of direct coercion. And what happened that suddenly you think that he will not be able to cope with these functions? What has happened in the Polish country for the last year or a little more that the State has decided that it is not able to implement with the means it has at its disposal under various laws... that these measures will not be enough to secure order and order during the manifestation, even such manifestations that are side by side?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u263	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u264	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you: the project is a parliamentary project. This isn't a government project that could indicate that the state is abdicating something somewhere. At the moment, I think you are all convinced that the last year of both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Police, which ensured security for Poles, shows that we are ready to act and Poles are best protected. Nevertheless, this law gives us another tool. From our point of view, this is a very good and desirable tool. It helps to ensure safety to a greater extent. Allows you to separate potential antagonists. It reduces, minimizes the threat. Leaving the passage between the two assemblies, for example, for the carriages, for the passage of the fire department, for the faster march of the police units, if necessary, or for the observation that these two groups are getting closer together... We will be able to control all of this more if necessary. Of course, we all assume that assemblies are peace assemblies. But we all assume that citizens respect the law, and yet there is a criminal code that somehow regulates the principles of our functioning. We're also talking about this situation right now... A specific situation can be cited. I think she was already pointed at yesterday or today. The nearest day for the accumulation of 12 assemblies in the same place and time. The President of Warsaw registered it 'Cause let's remember that the president doesn't approve, he just records... Perhaps not to register, that is to say, forbidding the assembly. So that in one place and at the same time there will be 12 competing congresses against each other, competing in principle, but this also results directly from the information that can be observed in each media medium, and from the statements of some organizers. In such a particular situation, e.g. Separation or systematicisation of such gatherings will clearly increase security. For this simple reason, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration supports this solution because it will clearly increase security. At the moment we also have a situation in which not everyone can really manifest at the same place and time, because the order of applications is important. So whoever gets up first in the morning 30 days before the manifestation can report such a manifestation, and the second one who slept a little longer will no longer report the manifestation to take place in the same place and time. The new rules propose to introduce cyclical assemblies, which in some way also specify the issues of order, because if there is a cyclical assembly, it will already be known that it has priority. Well, it can also be said that after a longer period of time, the project proposes that this be once every 3 years, it will have to be recorded and will be examined for the previous period. And these are regulations that, from our point of view, will help to ensure security. Although we are trying to do this and recent events, those of November 11 also indicate that the police have stood up to the task. Thank you. [[New regulations...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u265	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u266	The new rules introduce such a principle that public authority and churches will always be the first to rise, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u267	Now these regulations also point to that. We do not apply the provisions of the Assembly Act, so theoretically they have priority, they do not have to register.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u268	Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: And public authority also...]] Two technical details. I'm trying to direct my eyes on the person who's next to ask the question so that you don't get surprised when there's a long list. And the other thing. I consulted the Legislative Office again. Amendments may be tabled once the point has begun to close the discussion. And you don't need to report them formally, during the speech, but you can submit them to the protocol. So that I assure you that nothing here has been neglected on the formal side. Senator on a formal matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u269	Thank you. I don't question the fact that such a provision exists. It's just that someone is calling for an amendment, and we don't know that an amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u270	Yeah, yeah, that's why I read it to you. So I guess there's no doubt about it anymore. Senator... Marshal Shark. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u271	Thank you very much. I would add that some of us have already tabled amendments, and this is in the form of a tabled amendment, and it will become a formal amendment if it enters the committee. That is why we can now talk about the amendment, not the amendment. Now, a question for the Minister. Minister, on 6 December 2016, 157 organisations asked us to reject the Assembly Act. Minister, aren't they all, these 157 organizations, right? That's one question. And the second question I've already asked the Senator of the rapporteur. What sanctions are foreseen for organizers for organizing an illegal assembly? Just don't tell me there's no illegal assembly, because if someone doesn't complete all these formalities, or at least part of this bill, as we assume, will come into force, it will result in an illegal assembly. The question is therefore: what sanctions are envisaged for the organisers of such illegal gatherings? And the question that I also repeat, i.e.: Why the haste in introducing this law? Why isn't there a vacathio legis? Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Maybe I'll start...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u272	You're welcome, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Rooster, please do not speak on the phone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u273	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, may I begin from the end, perhaps, with the vacathio legis. Well, such a vacathio legis the Sejm accepted, so here... [[So he's not at all.]] Excuse me? [[So he's not at all.]] No. There is a vacathio legis, which is that the law enters into force on the day of the announcement. This is acceptable in specific situations and the Sejm considered this to be a situation. But it was just a moment ago that there was an alternative proposal. It's illegal gatherings. The assembly is illegal when it stays, for example. solved, and yet there is no dispersal of persons. But there is also a spontaneous assembly which, without having its organizer, is a non-notified assembly. So there could be situations like this. The rules of this novel do not eliminate the possibility of spontaneous gatherings. They may take place on condition that they do not interfere with the conventions notified. [[So they're illegal.]] No. They're legal until they get into conflict with the assemblies legally notified. As far as sanctions are concerned, sanctions are set out in the current law. Depending on the act committed by the persons concerned, it provides for prison sentences, restrictions on liberty and fines. There is a full range of possibilities in the current law, which at the moment includes such provisions. [[What year?]] The Commission therefore It's a law recently passed in the last term.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u274	Does your marshal have any more questions? [[No.]] Turn on the mike, please. [[No. Thank you. I've already gotten...]] I'm trying to get each of the senators to ask the end. Thank you. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u275	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have questions in part about the bill, partly about the Minister's statements. Minister, you said that the bill is going to increase the security of a large number of manifestations that may take place. After all, you know exactly that on 11 November there were 21 different manifestations. And I haven't heard of any fuss, and there wasn't a law, so you can say, according to your philosophy, that you guys did it. Therefore, please explain to me whether the draft law increases the power of public authority or of the citizen. That's the first question. Second: do you think that such solutions exist in other countries of the European Union? I am not interested in whether such solutions are in Cuba, Belarus, or whether such solutions are in the countries of the European Union. And one more thing. It's been going through here... Minister, please answer yes or no. Do you think that the Supreme Court, which has not, in short, left a dry thread on what you are proposing, or all NGOs, etc. Are they wrong? That's one thing. Please answer yes or no. And secondly, why don't you listen to what they're proposing? I'm talking about those institutions I mentioned. Don't you listen to the opposition's voice? I see. I don't accept it, but I can understand it. But NGOs, the Supreme Court? Why don't you want to take into account the good proposals of these institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u276	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u277	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think all these questions are really for me. I do not have the capacity to take this into account, both chambers of parliament shall take into account such or other provisions if they are proposed. As for the opinion of the organization or Supreme Court, I can say that everyone has the right, in terms of organisations, to express their views, to express it is not limited. It is a question of interpretation, a question of how to put it, of looking at a given problem. If it's a restriction for someone... If it's a limit to someone's wanting to keep them safe, then I'm gonna honestly say it, I don't understand. As for the Supreme Court's opinion, that's a very interesting opinion... I wouldn't want to comment on it. In general, just as several million Poles said years ago, that extending the retirement age was not a good idea, and yet the High House adopted it... So everyone has their own opinion and she is either not being listened to. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I have some more?]] [[You're welcome, of course...]] [[I also asked if you were familiar with the country's minister in the European Union, in which such solutions are present.]] The different countries have very different solutions. I can't do it right now... I didn't analyze the problem. [[I'm sorry, but I didn't get an answer.]] [[Please...]] [[I was just asking about the 157 organizations that sent us all, to all the senators asking for the rejection of the convention bill...]] Well, the senators will decide whether or not to... [[I understand, but do you think they're all wrong? That was the question. That's an opinion, right?]] These are opinions. [[Oh, I see.]] Everyone has the right to express them. [[Thank you.]] They will be included or not by the Sejm and the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u278	Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u279	Some of your marshals have already asked them, but I'd like to ask you about the article, too. 3. Because you are referring here to an amendment that you quoted from the Marshal just a moment ago. But this does not ease my concern, because serious institutions, as well as our legislators, point out that the bill is absolutely incompatible with the constitution in many places. In your opinion, is it appropriate for such a law to enter into force on the date of its announcement or even 14 days after the expiry of that period? Should it not be so that the moment of entry into force of the Act gives the chance for it to be verified by the Constitutional Tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u280	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u281	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion... I can, of course, say on the basis of my experience of many, many years of work on bill projects, work in this building, that many times have been passed laws, whose entry into force took place on the day of the announcement. 14-day deadline... Is this a time limit sufficient for the Constitutional Tribunal to examine the law? That's a question too. [[I'm the one who asked them.]] Excuse me? [[I'm the one who asked them.]] Well, yeah. That is the question whether even such a time limit is sufficient for the Court to deal with the law, whether another time limit is needed, longer. Of course, the suggested term is a 14-day term. But, as I said, many times these terms were shortened for various reasons. It is up to you to decide how this deadline will be shaped.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u282	Senator Slugocki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I have a question about cyclical gatherings. Well, according to the law, Minister, when submitting an application, the entity wishing to hold cyclical meetings informs the voivode only about the first assembly. What happens when I give my first assembly date and receive the voivodeship's consent to organize cyclical gatherings in 3 years, and in fact I will not hold any of the conventions except the first one and thus block the right to gather other parties? And now my question: is there a chance to inform the voivode that the subject to whom the voivode has granted the opportunity to organize cyclical gatherings is not organizing them, and can the voivode then unleash deadlines, i.e. de facto deny the right to organise these cyclical gatherings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u284	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u285	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, Art. Article 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c. 1 the amendment assumes that the voivodship shall decide to withdraw its consent to the regular organisation of meetings at the request of the organiser if it considers that they will not be further cyclical or if at least twice within the time limits specified in the schedule referred to Because, as we remember, we need to give a schedule for such gatherings They have not been organised. [[Good. What if someone organizes every other convention? As I understand it, then this 3-year term will still be valid, right?]] Well, he has to organize at least four times a year. [[It's obvious. But every other thing... within a year, he's gonna block out a whole bunch of gathering opportunities for those entities that really want to gather and...]] The bill permits it. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u286	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question: do you agree with my opinion that this law increases the possibility of exercising the constitutional right to freedom of assembly? And now I'm gonna tell you what my reasoning is. If someone wants to be a participant in a cyclical event, e.g. The Schuman Parade, which takes place every year, and someone, e.g. a group of Eurosceptics, Euro adversaries, maliciously submit a notification about e.g. six of their manifestations This will be the case if we are under the current rules Just in the place where this manifestation has been inscribed in the landscape for years, the calendar of events in Warsaw... If these organisers get up early, they will make a notification earlier than the organizers of the Schuman Parade, then the supporters of European integration will have a limited right to manifest because either there will have to be another route or another hour, or there will be a different kind of inconvenience. Is my thinking correct? So does this law increase the possibility of exercising the constitutional right to assembly? Because the opponents of the European Union do not prohibit their views from being expressed in public space, but they will have to manifest within 100 m of the Schuman Parade. Is my thinking right or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u288	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u289	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The present law, of course, leads to the situation that the senator was talking about: who first has the right to manifest in a given place. If there was some historical route of the march e.g. Schuman's manifestation will take precedence over the assembly's organisation if someone reports to this place earlier. And so it turns out that the Schuman Parade will have to take a different route. The present proposal assumes that it will be such a cyclical gathering, and this parade will be able to take place peacefully here. And the adversaries will eventually be able to gather 100 m further. Thank you. [[Yet...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u290	I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u291	So this law increases citizens' right to enjoy constitutional freedom of assembly? Because, as in the example given, it does not restrict the rights of either the European Union's opponents or the supporters of the European Union. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u292	It provides both parties with the right to manifest, only regulates the distance between the meetings concerned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u293	We've got two minutes until recess. Maybe one more question. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u294	Minister, I will return to this decision concerning cyclical gatherings, which you have tried to explain, but I know this is a little difficult, because it was the Members who prepared this bill. Minister, the voivode makes a decision on the cyclical assembly no later than five days before the meeting. Then his decision goes to the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city. He's checking to see if any assembly has been reported. He thinks it's been reported, so he'd have to make a negative decision. Well, maybe he'll turn her in, maybe he won't. If he doesn't, the next day the voivode should issue a replacement order. He's gonna give it up or he's not gonna give it up. If the uncle makes a negative decision, I understand that this cycle of appeal you have said is at stake, i.e. the district court, the appeal court, etc. So it's just a little bypass, because it's not a reference to the voivodeship, but if the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the president makes a negative decision, then it's someone who feels that this assembly should be held, they're going to have to appeal, and it's just gonna happen. Don't you think that's a bit of a dwarf solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u295	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u296	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It is one of the solutions newly designed, but at the moment there is also this appeal road from refusing to register a given manifestation or assembly. There's only a new subject here... [[But the extra...]] Excuse me? [[This is an additional lengthening of the entire cycle.]] The deadlines are short, so whatever it is, it's all for... [[It's to be expected that he won't make it, that unfortunately...]] No. The court has 48 hours to decide, five days, and everything is... in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u297	Yeah, but if the uncle... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: I'm sure it'll be...]] I'm sorry, but I'll ask. But if the governor doesn't make a negative decision, we have to wait 24 hours for the voivode's replacement order. I understand that this voivodeship's replacement will be possible... It's another day. We've got two days left.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u298	Yes. Yeah, but it is now, too. If the voivode issues a replacement order, it's also being court-tested. There's nothing new in the administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u299	Do you still want to ask the senator? Because that's the last question before recess. Thank you very much. I declare a half-hour break until 3:30 at the request of the Civic Platform Club. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 00 to 15 minutes 33]] I'm reopening the session. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We're here to ask the Minister. Mr. Senator Tight. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u300	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Senators of the Rapporteurs stated that during the committee's work they did not have data resulting from real experience with the occurrence of such cases as would justify the introduction of restrictions which are contained in the draft amended act. Perhaps the Minister has such data and can tell you about them. Have there been cases in the past? And whether the ministry or the state, I don't know at what level, you've been analysing it. That demonstrations did not fit e.g. at the planned meeting place? Because today, the rapporteur said that there might be a situation that there would be two demonstrations that would not fit in the place where the assembly was planned either. Were there also cases where the conventions organised by different actors at the same time and in the same place threatened the safety of the participants in the demonstrations? And if there were such cases, did the analysis take place, or was the threat sometimes caused by the omissions of public authority rather than by the demonstration itself? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski asked about cases of malicious seat-taking. I would also like to ask if there were any cases that someone maliciously reported a demonstration in some place because he knew that someone else was planning to do a demonstration there and wanted to take the place first. Does the Ministry have that knowledge? Can he confirm that these three situations were real? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u301	Thank you very much. Senator Wach, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u302	Thank you very much. Minister, from your reply, I would argue that you consider this bill necessary. Tell me. If that's the case, if you confirm it all. Why isn't it a government project? Why is it used here... The government accepts the bill, but the project goes on the parliamentary path, which is simplified, which limits debate and exchange of views on the project. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u303	Thank you very much. Senator Warzocha, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u304	Thank you very much. Minister, you have heard the questions that have been addressed to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Security threads have often appeared in these questions, which, of course, is in line with the intentions of the applicants. We are also in the position that they are crucial here and should decide on our decisions. However, if we are talking about situations where the crossing of routes of various manifestations leads to unnecessary feuds, there are some personal costs, people are injured, there are damage related to public order violations, etc... I'm sorry that I'm talking about this. There are some costs. Effects of this type of action then needs to be repaired, compensation must be paid and subsidies granted to local governments so that they can cover the costs of possible damage. We have also witnessed such situations, and there have been such television broadcasts. That private property was also destroyed in addition to public property. We remember the burned-out transmission cars of the stations that sent their crews to the scenes of such events. Various private objects, shops, etc. were destroyed. Sellers often protected themselves from damage. My question goes to this... Does the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration have any data that summarises the costs of removing the consequences of public policy violations during demonstrations that were organised on 11 November, e.g. Last year or two years ago? Can they be compared to the convention data that took place in 2016 after certain measures were taken to address such situations? I am talking about this because, as a parliamentarians, I am often asked by various people who meet me, for example. at football matches and other sporting events taking place in police assistance, which must accumulate adequate human resources, personnel and also take measures to combat public policy violations... People ask me the question: why does everyone, including the non-coach, have to pay for it? And I am directing this question to the Minister. I would like to know more or less how much it has cost to remove the effects of all these brawls, which, as a result of the carelessness of the organizers or faulty law, we have borne together as taxpayers, as a society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u305	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u306	Thank you very much. As far as possible, I will try to answer the questions asked. The question was whether the routes of the manifestation were imposed, whether there were cases of malicious bookings or seat occupations, which, as a standard... about which it was commonly known that another manifestation would be organized there. Yes, of course. This was the case even on November 11th. The route of the Independence March was recorded as a route of other manifestations and only thanks to police procedures, negotiations and appropriate posture were these manifestations properly separated and secured. We're gonna have a case like this in the next few days. This is, for example, on December 13 or December 10, when, as you might put it... Of course, it is not for me to judge whether this is a malicious act or whether the situation really requires it, but at the moment, at 10 December, we have 12 conventions registered to be held at the same place and time. Except some have been registered since 8:00, a couple from 9:00 and a couple of 10:00... That shows who's first, who's better. And I understand that such a method would be operational in the near future. And it's December 13th, and in this case we have already registered several conventions at the same time. It's part of it. The place and the time. So we have these cases diagnosed, cases from the last few days. Of course we're not driving... The Ministry as Ministry does not conduct statistics. The local authorities who register these data may provide information on these meetings to the police. The only thing I can say And that's probably going to be part of the answer to Senator Warzocha's question. It is that we have the data from the police that obtained this information from local governments. From 14 September 2015 to 6 December 2016 In other words, this is more or less the period during which the new Law During these conventions, 53 cases of coercive measures were applied to the problems that had arisen. In these events, 226 people were injured, including 223 police officers. Of course, the data we have from this period were estimated in some way on the basis of reports. The cost resulting from losses in both private and public property, i.e. military equipment... The estimated amount of costs incurred by the police in implementing the security during this period of the assembly is PLN 21 million 500 thousand. Of course, this task is the duty of the police and the police are financed by the state budget for this purpose. I have no comparison of what was before and what is the difference, let's say between the previous 11 November and the last, but it seems that the naked eye could be seen that these costs must have been lower, because there were no incidents of destruction of property and there were no wounded police officers, at least I have no knowledge of it. Thank you... Oh, and the question is whether the bill is needed and why not the government... I've already, I think, answered that question. The legislative initiative has, in accordance with the Constitution, several actors, including at least 15 Members. It is a law on the initiative of the parliament, meeting any expectations. And, as I mentioned at the very beginning, any initiative that affects safety... And this will undoubtedly affect the safety of citizens and allow the police even better security of assemblies, even if by ensuring greater security for the police themselves, because here they, having the ability to separate manifestations usually with an antagonistic distance of 100 m, will not have to physically enter between the protesters, will have a safe distance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u307	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u308	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I ask for the interpretation of the wording of the article. 26a in chapter 3a. This, of course, applies to cyclical gatherings. cyclical meetings must meet a certain condition, namely that they are to be held either in the same place or on the same route at least 4 times a year according to the timetable drawn up or at least once a year on the days of public and national holidays and decimals; that is the most important event of this kind has taken place in the last 3 years, etc. My question is this... It is assumed that this law is very good and treats everyone equally, but I do not agree, because it does not treat all entities who wish to apply for such cyclical manifestations, assemblies. I'm gonna use a completely graphical language... [[Senator, ask me a question.]] Yeah, but I have to say this... [[But it's a speech, not a question.]] ...image to make sure you know what's going on. The organisation of meetings in front of the Presidential Palace on April 10 has a long tradition and it certainly dates back three years, which is the basis for reporting it as a cyclical assembly. And, let's say, there's a second association that's been formed relatively recently in the past year, which is called CODE. It will not be able to meet the condition for a 3-year period. So is this equal treatment or isn't it? And what can be done about such a matter? Thank you very much. [[They can do it, too, only somewhere else.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u310	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, two questions. The answer to one thing may seem obvious, but it's not as obvious as we're going to read into the bill. Namely, or an entity authorised to organise cyclical meetings in the voivodship, must report It's kind of a scope permit, so to say, let's say for three years, with repetition... A certain assembly, let's assume that this year, to the commune? Does it have to or doesn't it? Because, like I said, after reading the bill, it's not so obvious. After all, this entity may not organize this assembly for external reasons, which it does not have an impact on, and at the same time it does not lose its ability to use this cyclical privilege once during the rest of the period. Second line. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 there are certain responsibilities that are incumbent on the voivodeship when it consents to the organisation of a cyclical assembly, namely it makes it available on its BIP website and informs the municipality. But it can also withdraw such consent; it is mentioned in the article. 26c. The question is, shouldn't we just repeat... Shouldn't he be obliged to take BIP information, or at least to inform him that such consent is no longer in force for a given entity, for a given assembly cycle, and, of course, to inform the municipality that the entity concerned cannot hold these cyclical meetings. To sum up, there is a general communication for the public and for citizens on the BIP website and there is communication with the municipality where consent is given and there is no such communication when consent is withdrawn. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask the Minister? Because I'm not sure we talked about the same thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u311	Of course. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u312	Minister, you said that at more than 6,000 assemblies there were few more than 50 cases of coercive measures. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Chwałek: Intervention.]] Am I to understand that this happened at 50 conventions, or so that there were 50 cases and at one convention could be, for example. Couple of cases? Do these 50 cases include sports events? And has there always been force in these cases in situations where two competing parties at the assembly led to conflict?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u313	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u314	Let me answer that question at the beginning. At least 17 of these cases were collective disruptions. It follows that such a number concerned mutual distortions of manifestation. As I understand it, the remaining 53 cases may have been individual disruptions during individual demonstrations. The senator asked if he had to be reported... No, no. Earlier, the question was, is this equal treatment, since, as I'm going to say, we're looking back three years. A number of provisions determine the acquisition of certain rights depending on the length of work or income in relation to tax provisions from an earlier period. This law accepts a 3-year limit for the examination by the voivode of a given application. The point is whether such a convention has taken place in the last three years. It is difficult for me to answer why this is exactly 3 years of. It is a question of the applicant, but it is always necessary to adopt some kind of limit criterion. This is where the applicant accepted the 3-year criterion. I think there's a lot of gatherings in this timer, three-year-old. There could always be a situation that someone, I'd say, will acquire this right. There was a question as to whether he had to report each time, if the cyclical assembly had already been reported... No, he doesn't. If it does not take place, the voivode will examine it and possibly, after twice not doing so according to the timetable, will withdraw the consent, which will of course be announced in the Public Information Bulletin. This may not come directly from this record, but this is a principle that should obviously be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u315	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u316	I'm gonna go over the previous questions, because I think some of these questions were about football events and what happens after these games and so on. Remind me. Maybe somebody's already reminded me of that. That such events are organized in accordance with another law, because they are so-called. mass events. Mass events are assemblies, yes, but not every assembly is a mass event. I would like to ask, in the footsteps of my colleague, whether the data you gave to the Minister relates to mass events and gatherings, only assemblies, or just mass events. If you'd given it to the senators to explain the difference between a mass event and a convention... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u317	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u318	I have a question as to whether an amendment to the 2012 Assembly Act has also been considered. At that time there was such a large rewetes throughout Poland concerning, in particular, a record imposing excessive, disproportionate responsibility on the president of the assembly. Can't you? was this element repaired here? Has this been considered? In 2012, we had a somewhat similar discussion on violations or restrictions on civil rights. This record seemed to me as far-reaching and dangerous to the right to demonstrate. Was the amendment of that law considered?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u319	Marshal Borusewicz, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u320	Minister, I have a question that I asked the rapporteur earlier. I want to ask you. This law also applies to the rights of churches, i.e. the Catholic Church. We have a concordat with the Catholic Church. Is there therefore an opinion of the Polish Episcopate? Is there any information on whether this fits into the concordat? Is that the opinion of anybody at all? In the case of this law, do you think it is necessary to negotiate with the Church, to inform the Church, to speak with the Church in order to preserve the concordat?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u321	Thank you very much. [[I'm talking about the concordat rules.]] Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u322	Thank you very much. First, maybe I'll try to answer the last question. It seems to me that the answer to this question has already been answered by the rapporteur, but I, too, in my earlier statement, quoted the article. 17 Concordat, which states that the Republic of Poland provides the conditions for carrying out religious practices. The current convention law is included in the article. 2 the provision that the laws do not apply to gatherings organised in the framework of the activities of churches and other religious associations. It can be said that at the moment religious unions and churches, without complying with the law Because they don't have to comply with the convention law, they don't have to report their conventions. They shall take precedence over other notified cases. That's how you read it. The provision proposed by the applicants clearly stated that. So if then the provision of the current law, as far as I know, so follows He wasn't consulted... I have no information about the new one, because, as I mentioned, it is a parliamentary bill. All I can say is that the next meeting of the joint committee and the episcopate will probably take place after the New Year. Perhaps then there will be an opportunity to talk about it. Nor do I have signals from any religious union or church to raise doubts about this law or this record. We have not received any such information in the Ministry, and the Minister is in some way overseeing, among others. churches and religious associations. I don't have that kind of knowledge. As I mentioned, the previous act on conventions was not consulted with the Episcopate either, with the Polish Episcopal Conference. Apparently, the Church or the religious unions do not see the danger in this provision. That's the answer to the last question. And now I'm going to try to answer the question of whether the data I quoted is about mass events or just gatherings. Such precise information is not in the material that I received from the police, but it is nevertheless about public gatherings and social protests, but the costs are supposed to be about securing public gatherings. That's what's in the table I've been given. And the answer to the third question. Oh, there was a question, I suppose. [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Yeah, but I think I answered Senator Czerwinski's question earlier. Isn't it yet? [[Yes, sir.]] There was an answer. [[I'll give you a hint. I'd just like you to say as briefly as possible.]] Oh, I see what's going on. [[Thank you very much.]] There are two laws. There's a mass event bill. It applies to such events as concerts or sports events. However, here was also information that fans meet not only at mass events And that's what's really happening. They also participate in conventions that take place outside the stadiums and not on match days or any other competitions. So it's not like sports fans only participate in mass events. At other times, when there are no games, sports events, if they have the opportunity, they attend conventions. And the question was, was there a discussion on the amendment of the law... Was it about the convention bill, because the senator didn't... Is this about the convention bill? [[Yes.]] The Ministry of Home Affairs has not carried out such work at the moment, and As you can see, the parliamentary initiative has been implemented in the form of a project. So I think the applicants saw such a need, otherwise very positive for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u323	Thank you very much. As I see no further questions, thank you very much to the Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Thank you.)]] I'd like to welcome Mr. Adam Bodnar, the ombudsman. Do you wish to speak? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yes, please.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u324	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator and Dear Senators, I would like to stress that this is the first time I have taken part in the Senate in the context of working on a specific law. So far, I have had the opportunity, as you remember, to speak in the context of discussions on the Ombudsman's annual report. I believe that this is my duty for three reasons. Firstly, I believe that the Law on Assembly Law is a fundamental law in respect of respect for the rights and freedoms of the individual. Secondly, I believe that this is a law that has raised a lot of controversy and doubts, as evidenced by the position of 157 NGOs, my previous opinion and the opinion of the Bureau of Studies and Supreme Court Analysis. And what I would like to emphasise in addition is the position of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, jointly issued with the Head of the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE, who together called for this bill not to be adopted as a threat to the rights and freedoms of the individual. There's also, ladies and gentlemen, the third reason. I remember very well the debate that took place in the Senate on 25 and 26 July 2012 on the previous revision of the convention law. It was a debate about the so-called. President Komorowski's Presidential amendment, which raised many doubts about similar institutions, including non-governmental organisations. I was then in a different role, as a representative of NGOs, specifically the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. This organization was also opposed to the various solutions of the amendment. And I would like to stress that then, in my opinion, the Senate became known as this true House of Reflection as to what freedom of peaceful assembly means and what the standards of these assemblies mean. If we read the transcript, we will see that the critical opinions at the address... were reported by Senator Paszkowski, Senator Jackowski, Senator Skurkiewicz, Senator Pęk, Senator Dobkowski and Senator Gogacz and many, many others. Also Senator Cimoszewicz, Senator Borowski and Senator Obremski. And, moreover, in these many different voices one could draw attention to individual issues, one can say, fundamental issues. To worry about the state of democracy and respect for civil rights in the event that this Presidential Amendment enters into force. That was also to draw attention to the importance of OSCE standards. Here, for example. Senator Skurkiewicz pointed out that we need to take these issues into account in particular because Poland may be in trouble on the international stage and will be misjudged in the context of the upcoming OSCE summit in Tirana. There were also statements... Senator Dobkowski made such a voice that it is such a fundamental matter that it is necessary to act as if above divisions. And he emphasized how important it is for him to deal with this subject. beyond political divisions, beyond current conflicts, how important it is to bring about the right quality of assembly law. There have been voices pointing to the need to respect, one can say, the most far-reaching democratic rules. I would like to quote here, for example, Senator Jackowski's statement: "I am asking the Senate majority to defend the honor of the Senate, the House, which was the first democratically elected parliamentary chamber after the changes of 1989, the House in which the heroes of our independence sit and sit. I would like this House to have the courage to stand up for the rights of the citizen, the rights of freedom. There were many, many voices of this type. For me, as a human rights person for many, many years, a human rights person, as independent as possible, also regardless of political divisions, were very important voices. I am very pleased that these votes led to some modifications to the law on assemblies, but they also led to the request of the Ombudsman, Prof. Irena Lipowicz, the Law and Justice, your Movement, but also the NSZZ Solidarity Court. I remember personally going to President Piotr Duda and convincing him to challenge that amendment to the Constitutional Tribunal. Such a request was submitted to the Court, which resulted in the Court's judgment in the case of signage. K 44/12 of 18 September 2014 This decision referred to a number of legislative uncertainties regarding who has priority in reporting the assembly, doubts about the responsibilities of the president of the assembly. It was also important to have an appeal procedure, that is, what the organizers can do when they are banned from holding a meeting, and whether, as I say, you can fit in in in time to effectively sue the assembly before the date of the planned meeting. I would add that this decision later settled matters concerning spontaneous gatherings. In 2015, as a result of that debate, and subsequently the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was adopted the law on assemblies, which, as a general rule, has not been challenged during the last year and a half. Me, for example. I remember one question which was expressed by the mouths of the representatives of Law and Justice as regards this amendment. It was such an expression that gatherings can only be held in order to take a stand in public matters, which was presented as, you can say, threatening the essence of the assembly, or the father can hold a demonstration before the court to defend his rights, whether it is a public assembly. In fact, it was only a matter of debate and it did not lead to a deeper question of this regulation. No request was submitted to the Constitutional Court to refer to the 2015 amendment. I am talking about this not to remind history, but to indicate a particular context in which the Senate is located at this moment. In my opinion, the proposed amendment does not meet the standards of the democratic state, it does not meet the standards that have been referred to several times in this House, I mean, for example, the standards of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Therefore, I would like to say briefly about my substantive objections, which are included in the opinion presented both in the Sejm and in the Senate. The first reservation concerns the priority of assemblies organised by public authorities and churches and religious associations. I want to believe that this is just a certain legislative mistake, that de facto this bill will not lead to, so to speak, the placing of such assemblies above, above conventions organized by ordinary citizens or by ordinary civil society organisations. I hope that, as announced today, there will be an automatic withdrawal of these proposals. And this in itself... Well, it can't be that any assembly organized by public authorities has a priority over assemblies, you can say, private or private. For, after all, freedom to organize peaceful gatherings. 57 of the Constitution refers to everyone, i.e. any person who is under the jurisdiction of the Polish State, to any citizen. Moreover, the Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly defined this. But I believe that this will not be the subject of further debate and that this self-correction will lead to the deletion of this issue. However, I would like to pay more attention here to these so-called issues. cyclical gatherings, that is, this new institution, which is being introduced by the amendment of the Law on Assembly. And I would like to draw attention to two points. Firstly, what may raise doubts is the question of why someone who has previously organized demonstrations or organized meetings in a given place is supposed to have priority in order to reserve a specific place, a specific time to organize demonstrations over the next few years. Does this not affect the very essence of the assembly, which is, you can say, equal power of all citizens to organize demonstrations? This is the first one, I think, very important doubt. And the second involves the fact that the organization of a cyclical assembly causes a ban on other conventions. Moreover, the standard is introduced, this standard is 100 m, so I would define it, which means that if any other demonstration is to take place somewhere, it must take place within 100 m. But I would like to point out that this 100 m standard, which appeared in the course of legislative work, will include de facto not only cyclical meetings but all assemblies. So we can say that so far we have had a constitutional right to manifestation and to counter-manifestation or demonstration and counter-demonstration, and now there will be a right to demonstration and counter-demonstration, but not less than 100 m from the area where the demonstration takes place. It seems to me, and even I am convinced, that this is a very serious threat to the rights and freedoms of the individual. Now I would like to appeal to those principles of the OSCE I was talking about. Because it's easy to say, there are OSCE rules and they are both. However, I would like to explain what their meaning is, the importance of lawmaking from the point of view of standards. These are the principles that have been created by OSCE experts, by a group of experts working for many years, which, as a rule, draw before the parentheses what results from the standards of international law on freedom of peaceful assembly. That is, these OSCE experts, working for many years and examining the various cases that have occurred in the world, and examining the case law of international courts, e.g. The European Court of Human Rights, whether the UN Human Rights Committee or other international bodies, has tried, you can say, to draw before the parentheses what results from the current international standard and what is the subject of it. And if we now refer this to such a very specific level, to our law, it would appear that these standards are also translated into the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Cases such as Ölinger v Austria, Plattform These are the three basic, you can say, judgments that shape this standard. What does he look like? This standard looks like this: the ability to organize demonstrations and counter-demonstrations is not just something abstract, but it is an idea in itself, the idea that society has the right to see in one place and at one time that there is a certain public dispute, in which participants of demonstrations and counter-demonstrations see, hear, discuss with each other on the street. This is an idea in itself, which consists in the exercise of freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. And here I would like to talk about one thing in which this standard has been very well-exposed. This is Öllinger v Austria, judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 29 October 2006. It was about such a situation that some people wanted to organize, you can say, commemorate the funeral of the SS officers who died during World War II. The so-called one was behind it. Kameradschaft IV. And this was learned by the representatives of the Green Party who wanted to organize a counter-manification at the same time to show that they wanted to commemorate the Jews who died during World War II. This was therefore a concrete dispute in the Austrian public space. Around this event there was a dispute over how much demonstrations, which are contradictory about ideas, can take place at the same time. And the European Court of Human Rights said this: if the likelihood of tension and a heated exchange of views between groups that are against each other would lead to a ban on assembly, society would be deprived of the possibility of hearing different voices. So it's natural that during such demonstrations there are disputes, there's tension, there's a heated exchange of views. This is the essence of things. And that's why a standard is established that these manifestations and counter-manufactures should be audible and visible to each other. In OSCE standards, the words sight and sound are used for sight and hearing. But what does that mean? That means there can't be such a blank here. It is not possible to announce or regulate in advance that it must be 100 m or 200 m, because the standard of hearing and visibility is implemented in a different way. The role of the police is to separate demonstrators and counter-demonstrators. And if we look at our social reality, we'll see how well it works, because we've dealt with such manifestations in public space many times, on which the police, you can say, adapted to the situation. Because another will be the standard of this protection, if it is, say, 15, 50 or 100 counter-demonstrators, and another, if it is two large opposing demonstrations, like. This happened at the time in the case of the Independence March. There was one great demonstration on the Constitution Square, and the other was standing in the vicinity of Wilcza Street, so that, you can say, the security cordon was relatively wide. If we realize that most of the demonstrations are about marching, we'll see that it's hard to expect the whole route to march. The distance was at least 100 meters. We also need to consider urban infrastructure, architecture. If this was to be a march along Krakow's Premiere, then the counter-manufactures would take place behind the European Hotel in Piłsudski Square? And if the demonstration is at the University of Warsaw, should the counter-manifestotes be on Czacki Street or on the Credit? It is difficult to ensure this standard of visibility and hearing. In my opinion, therefore, the role of Parliament is not to create a single general rule of law which will regulate it, but to leave the freedom of the police to decide each time how to separate manifestations from counter-manification. And it seems to me that this is very important, because if we lead to a 100 m standard being introduced, it will unfortunately mean the destruction of the right to counter-manipulation and the conflict with the OSCE standards that I am talking about. There's one more thing. Here we have talked many times about how much money is spent on the protection of demonstrations. Well, that's the role of the police. That's what I call it. each country's positive obligation under the rules on freedom of peaceful assembly. This is the cost of democracy. We must separate the manifestors and the counter-manifesto. And that's the cost the police have to bear. And that's what we need to be aware of, because the lack of such a cost, the lack of such effort, can also mean a violation of human rights. And that was one of the reasons for human rights violations in the Plattform Ärzte für das Lebens v Austria. Yeah, it wasn't guaranteed there, you could say, security for those who manifested and counter-managed, and there was violence. Situations where violence is committed constitute a violation of human rights, but in my view prevention is a police role and not a legislator. So that I would like to appeal cordially to the High House to reflect on this issue and to reflect on the fact that the Senate's role has always been to fight for standards and to uphold the standards of freedom of peaceful assembly, as demonstrated by the Senate on 25 and 26 July 2012. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u325	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any questions for the Minister? You're welcome... Who volunteered first? [[Marshal Borusewicz...]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. If I'm not sure, the marshal's first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Ombudsperson, tell me if you know where such restrictions, which at the moment want to enter into the Assembly Act, are being applied. Where in European countries, because of course I am not asking about African or Asian countries, but about European countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u328	Do you understand the wording of the article? 1, in which Article 1 is inserted. 26a? He classifies, determines the criteria of the cyclical assembly, and in particular says that events have taken place in the last 3 years, even if not in the form of assemblies and aim in particular to celebrate the important... etc. Is that understood? Something that was an assembly and that didn't have to be a convention before? And how do you see the possibility of settling on the question of: worshiping important and important events for the history of the Republic of Poland? Is this a finished article, if here it is not indicated the one who will decide it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u329	Mr. Senator Kilian. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u330	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, as the name of your office itself, the Ombudsman's office indicates, you are a citizen's guardian. Does this bill that we are discussing now serve our citizens or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u331	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u332	To answer the question of Marshal Borusewicz, I would like to say that I do not know such institutions of cyclical gatherings. And when I even talked to international experts, they were, to be honest, surprised at the idea of guaranteeing assemblies in such a way. The principle is always that freedom to organise peaceful assembly is a constitutional value and it is possible for every citizen, every organisation, to simply report a meeting in advance. Public authorities, local authorities take note of this and create, you can say, space for this assembly to take place, secure the area and, you can say, allow the assembly to be held. But with such a solution to guarantee the possibility of organizing cyclical gatherings, I have not met before. I even looked at this OSCE standard, or something like that pops up, and I didn't find anything like that anywhere. With regard to the issue of referring to the past in order to draw conclusions for the future, i.e. the organisation of these cyclical gatherings, this is quite, I would say, an unusual construction. It seems to me that the Supreme Court has expressed this, quite strongly criticizing this solution and pointing to some legislative inaccuracies. But it could also be pointed out that this is a construction that can put some entities in a position of underprivileged. Well, let's imagine that someone was actually organizing every year, the cyclical assembly, which in his opinion or in the opinion of the organisation concerned a matter of importance to the public, and suddenly it turns out that this is not an event that is significant from the point of view of Poland's history, while the evaluation in this respect is carried out by the voivode and this assessment can in a sense be discriminatory for the organizers. But here's what I'm going to say: in my opinion, we've been pointing out that this is simply not the solution we need. If we introduce restrictions or regulate the exercise of the freedom to organise peaceful assembly, we must consider whether this is necessary in a democratic country. - as provided for in I do not see this need here, and it seems to me that it is not necessary for this law to be passed. To answer Senator Kilian's question, I would say this: I do not believe that this law serves the citizens. Moreover, if we were to follow the events of the last year, we would see that we had no major problems with the use of peaceful assembly facilities by various groups. It seems to me that the vote of the Association of Independence March and the ONR in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of the Sejm was very significant here, where representatives of these associations said that they did not actually demand this law and that they did not need it for anything, because they had no major problems with organising the Independence March.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u333	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u334	Minister, I'll start by correcting it. The amendment, which we had the opportunity to learn thanks to Mr Marshal, is not a self-correction. This is the submission of Members. However, it sounds like the amendment by the Senators of the Platform, which was tabled at the committee meeting and, unfortunately, rejected for procedural reasons, without getting acquainted with it. Let me ask you a question. In a way, I've already heard the answer, but I'll ask them just to be sure. Has any of the religious unions ever complained to your spokesperson that he has a problem with carrying out his mission at various gatherings, torches, celebrations? Are you aware of such cases, whether or not there have been any complaints in this regard? Did any of these associations and churches express any concern or request in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u335	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u336	Thank you very much. I do not recall any complaints from churches or religious unions regarding the possibility of peaceful gatherings or any other religious gatherings. Taking the opportunity to ask such a question, I'd like to say something. I would like to answer the question that emerged during this morning's debate. There was a question about the so-called. the man of the butterfly, or person who interfered with the procession of God's Body. We need to remember to counter these kinds of situations. If we don't like some things or think they may be beyond the framework of the protest, then I don't go into this case. Let's use the criminal law code on the image of religious feelings. It's about art. 196 criminal code. I think it's worth remembering. This is a recipe that can be used in such situations. I'm not saying that in this situation, because I don't want to judge the facts here. However, if someone were to block a religious celebration, it would be possible to analyze it in such a way and view it as a step into the sphere of someone's religious feelings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u337	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u338	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Ombudsman, two questions. From what you've shown us here, I understand you're the most In quotation marks The rules relating to the new institution, namely the cyclical assembly, are interfering with. Yes? Did I get that right? The first of your allegations was that these rules were at all, i.e. that there is a new institution being designed that was never there. My first question is very simple: can anyone report a cyclical meeting? How does the creation of a new institution reduce citizens' rights? Whether any citizen or any other institution and association can seek to have their interest in a certain sphere, demonstrated in the assembly... Can they register a cyclical assembly? If there's any restrictions here, just pop them out. And second question. The Lord quite gently passed from cyclical gatherings to a limit of 100 m between opposing parties, in fact to what is already in the law, namely spontaneous gatherings. Because I understand that most of these counter-manifications, which are meant to demonstrate dissatisfaction with the manifestation to be organized, will be spontaneous gatherings. The question is, do you know the contents of the article? 57 constitutions? I will quote this article to you and ask you to refer to it: "Everyone is given the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful gatherings. The limitation of that freedom may be laid down by law. So first of all, it's possible to limit freedom, but second of all, there's a bill. And you suggested here that you would prefer these 100 meters to be defined not in the bill, but by the ad hoc police. I'd rather not live to see my rights, perhaps as a counter-manifesto or as a protestor, limit the police as they please. But I'd prefer the bill to make sure the police are within certain limits and limits. [[And the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u339	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u340	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, it is now difficult for me to determine who will report for cyclical assemblies, because the criteria adopted are quite rigid, because it is necessary to show that such conventions have been held before. That's one thing. Secondly, it is necessary to demonstrate that this is an assembly, which concerns matters of importance and importance for the history of the Republic of Poland, important events, i.e. that it is about some commemoration of what happened in the past. But please note that here this desire to commemorate already in a sense regulates, restricts our space. For me, the problem is not so much about notifications, but about the fact that if this place and time are reserved for 3 years ahead or up to 3 years forward, it will already be reserved... whether it will already block the possibility of other gatherings in the same place and at the same time. [[100 m away...]] Please? [[100 meters away you can.]] You can, but... But someone could tell us why, in this place where someone has booked a cyclical assembly, because this is how his past was interpreted in connection with the gatherings, another person or other organization cannot organize demonstrations. So that I'm totally gonna get the problem. And here I was talking about the fact that for me it is not only a matter of the right to manifest and counter-manifestation, but also a matter of creating an institution to reserve space and time. As regards the relationship between Article. 57 of the Constitution and the law and the role of the legislator, that's my... I was going to say that, in my opinion, in order to ensure the proportionality of the standard, just leave, I would say, general clauses. There is no need to clarify them at a level of 100 m, because paradoxically, in my opinion, it will be counterproductive. We have so many different factual situations and so many different, you can say, problems related to urban architecture, that such a limitation or requirement of 100 m will, in my opinion, result in an excessive limitation of freedom of assembly. That is why I believe that the legal principle In fact, I have referred to the OSCE and the OSCE standards here, which should be based on the fact that it is the police who evaluate each time so as to ensure the safety of demonstrators and counter-demonstrators.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u341	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u342	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Spokesman, about the issue of security distances... the authors of this bill all the time say that the main element of the bill's advantages is the question of security. So it turns out that if we take the demonstration away from counter-demonstration, it's safe. I would like to hear from your spokesperson whether, in your assessment, it is sufficient to remove the demonstration from counter-demonstration to increase security. Is there any way that your spokesperson thinks it's gonna improve security at all? Second question. Mr Marshal asked whether countries in Europe have such solutions and standards. Do you know if there is anything like this in Belarus or not? Are Belarusian standards similar to those in the European Union? You said in your statement that at the time of adoption, this is the third question The law by President Komorowski has met with many people, including President Piotr Duda. Did you have the opportunity to meet with the authors and present your views while building this law and proceding it? And one last question. If you could make it clear to us once again, and if you do not, at least briefly repeat whether, in your opinion, the bill under review is in line with the European Charter of Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u343	Thank you very much. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Mrs Marshal...]] In a moment, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Not yet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u344	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator, this is a very convenient argument, which is presented every time as... It can be said that this is the word picking. It'll be better, and it'll be safer if we pass the bill. Right? But we must remember that from the point of view of human rights standards and lawmaking, so-called. the proportionality test, i.e. the test resulting from Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, needs to be examined whether the measures that are used for the purpose pursued are adequate and appropriate. In my opinion, the measure of these 100 m and the measure in the form of guarantee, can be said to be specific integrity and full safety of cyclical gatherings on the route on which they are planned for a period of 3 years, are not adequate means to ensure that the public objective of achieving safety is achieved. This objective can simply be achieved by sending an adequate number of police officers, prevention forces, which will be such demonstrations and counter-demonstrations have secured, and at the same time will not lead, I would say, to fire the child with a bath. As I said in the Öllinger case against Austria, it appears that this is the essence of the dispute, that this dispute is not only at the level of the debate, that this debate is also at the level of the street, that the public has the right to see this dispute, and that demonstrators must remember that someone may, so to speak, be alarmed by participating in counter-manifestation rather than by separating them by 100 m... As far as Belarusian standards are concerned, I am not an expert on the law in Belarus and I would not like to speak about it. The OSCE standards referred primarily to... the main standards stemmed from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the UN Human Rights Committee. As far as meetings on this bill are concerned, I will say yes. When I read the bill, my first thought was that I wanted to have a consult at my office on this very bill. I remember having a conversation at my office and we decided that on December 15 we would have this meeting, and then suddenly we were surprised by a very fast way of working on the bill. I'm afraid... I know that NGOs have advocated in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of the Sejm to organise a public hearing on this law. It didn't happen. In fact, the first moment when NGOs, the Ombudsman's office or other institutions, including OSCE representatives, were heard was yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committee. I know well that there is a great deal of tension in the environment of non-governmental organisations that are concerned that this law can be adopted in this form. [[And like a European Charter of Rights...]] Yeah, that's another question. Yes, I believe that the law in this form is contrary to the guarantees resulting from the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In particular, I am referring to the series of judgments in Öllinger v Austria, the Platform of Doctors for Life, and the case of Stankov v Bulgaria, these are the three leading decisions on the issue of manifestation and counter-manification. About the so-called. cyclical gatherings are unknown to me examples of countries where they would occur in such a form. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u345	Thank you very much, Minister. More questions... Mr. Marshal? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u346	I have a question for you, Mr. Spokesman. There has already been a question of compliance with the international documents which Poland has signed, and I have such a question for you: do you think this is a law compatible with the Polish constitution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u347	Of course, the body which is competent to rule on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution is the Constitutional Tribunal, but the Ombudsman, when taking action to submit an application to the Constitutional Tribunal, must also carry out his own assessment of compliance with the Constitution. I also accepted the principle that, in the case of laws which are particularly important from the point of view of human rights, the Ombudsman should not wait for the adoption of the law, but should take the floor during the legislative process. The analysis of compliance with the Constitution is primarily carried out in the light of Article. 57, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 2. However, this analysis should take into account not only what arises from Article. 57 and numerous judgments of For example, this last judgment, K 44/12, provides, you can say, a summary of these standards, but there were also earlier rulings that referred to assemblies, including spontaneous gatherings. And that creates a standard of interpretation of the article. 57, but this standard is strengthened by the analysis of international standards and international agreements on human rights, in particular Article. 11 the European Convention on Human Rights. Art. standards 11 The European Convention on Human Rights is interpreted by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and, therefore, if we want to reconstruct the so-called. constitutional standard... Well, there's really no way to reconstruct the art standard. 57 without reaching the Strasbourg caselaw and after Article. 11 conventions. And given all this, I believe that the law is contrary to the article. 57, just like I put it before.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u348	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u349	I'm sorry, I wasn't going to take the floor, but after that last statement by your spokesperson, there was a question about your possible constitutional complaint after the adoption of the law without amendment. I understand that naturally as if this had already been announced, but there is also a question about the effectiveness of this complaint. What will be the effectiveness of your constitutional complaint, even if the Constitutional Tribunal considers it legitimate, since it will already be adopted by the voivodships with reports of cyclical gatherings which may be notified in advance for 3 years? Does this mean to you that these decisions will be effective for another three years? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Dear Senator... okay, excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u350	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u351	Dear Marshal, Mr Senator, please forgive me, but I have not yet considered the legal possibilities for further action regarding this bill. The possibilities which are initially drawn up concern, above all, the application to the Constitutional Tribunal, but here it is important to remember that the referral to the Court and its diagnosis is, you can say, extended over time. Of course, there are possibilities to question the decisions of the administration. It is only in such situations that the question arises as to how the Ombudsman, referring to the general constitutional criteria, can act against the wishes of the applicants. It seems to me that this is a very complicated issue, and I don't think it's the time to do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u352	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Piotr Flork to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman said nicely. The House of Reflection. I think that we will be discussing a lot today, because it is important that this is the House that we consider this law. The fundamental law talks about human rights. There was a committee meeting yesterday. Amendments were tabled at the committee meeting. There was a motion to reject the law, then there were other amendments and there was a motion to adopt the law without amendments. We tabled amendments yesterday, we re-renewed them today, they are tabled, among others. on the deletion of Article. 1 point 1, the first part where we are talking about what I have already stressed many times, that power is before the citizen. In a nutshell, I'm about to develop it. Then we tabled an amendment on the article. Point 5, which is the deletion of the part concerning the cyclical assembly decision. Then, as I recall, Senator Rotnicka made an amendment to the vacathio legis to make it 14 days, not zero. Of course, all of our amendments were lost yesterday, they were not voted because you then submitted a proposal for a law without amendments, so we did not vote on it. Now I hear... I don't really get it, because this is my first term, and I don't get it. Well, there are some words here about self-corrections. I don't get it. I know the procedure. If there was an applicant's representative at the committee meeting, he could have made an autocorrection if he had been a government representative, he might have possibly... I don't think so, actually, maybe just the one who made the amendment. So there's no such thing as an autocorrection. I understand that the PiS Members will make some amendments today that we will learn about at the committee meeting and then we will be able to discuss this. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill cannot be defended, it is a parliamentary bill, it cannot be saved. Now it is up to our House whether or not everything we are discussing will continue. I don't think there's any need for self-correction here anymore, because this bill is bad, it's bad, it's rather an auto-reflexia about what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, you are being taken over. You can see that clearly from a certain stage. It started with the Constitutional Court. These laws were already six or seven, and one more bill is on its way. Then there was the Civil Service Act, then the Police, the D.A.'s office, the media, the military, recently the Territorial Defence Forces. It all leads in a certain direction. Now we will see whether this happens today or not, whether the President will make it tonight, because we can see that a few more hours of discussion about this bill is still ahead of us, and we will see if this bill will be adopted. I understand that in the election campaign you promised different stories, different things. You have begun to distribute positions on a large scale, in my opinion over measure, and this concerns different laws, because there is no law in which there would be no distribution of positions. There was another bill today. So positions are being handed out, actions are being carried out in a specific direction. We can only guess what's going on here. And now we have another fundamental law that concerns assemblies, civil rights, the right to assembly. The spokesperson was talking about a breach of the articles... We claim that this is an infringement, but it is the Constitutional Tribunal that should speak on this issue. Anyway, I've been exchanging art, too. 2, 54, 57, 31, 32, is therefore something to discuss and discuss with regard to this law. We tried to save this bill in some way at the committee meeting. She's got two parts. In the first part actually so far it has been written that public authorities, the Church, etc. they are not subject to... It is noted that as far as the Congress Act is concerned, this law does not include those laws, so there is no doubt that this law applies beyond the Assembly Act. This is the one part of the bill. The second part of the Act covers decisions concerning cyclical assemblies. This is the new part, very questionable. There is no such regulation in any European law, and we will not find anything like that anywhere. The way a voivode is supposed to make decisions is written so imprecisely that if this law came into force, it would be... This is the second part of the bill and our amendment... If you fail to reject the entire bill, you can reject either the first part or the second part. There is still the matter of vacathio legis. I don't know, ladies and gentlemen, what they were following... We have not received an answer to these questions, there is no Member of the applicant, and we would like to know why so quickly, so urgently and without consultation we should take... Mr. Spokesman said he made an appointment for December 15th, but it turns out December 15th... I'm not gonna finish that sentence, 'cause I think I'd say too much. [[There's gonna be another...]] We don't know why this bill is supposed to come into force... [[The first demonstrations will be over.]] In conclusion, I will say this: because there are only negative opinions about this law, because there is no positive opinion, because I do not believe in any self-correction or amendments that can improve this law, I only have to count on this House's own reflection. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Did you make the corrections, Peter?]] They'll be folded.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u354	Thank you very much. I'd like to speak to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill's pretty short... [[It's so full.]] ...but it's important and meaningful. What are the contents that it brings? It is a question of limiting the fundamental civil right guaranteed by the Constitution in the Chapter of Freedom and Political Rights. This chapter is called Freedom and Political Laws for a reason. Art. 57 provides that everyone is to be given the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assembly, and a restriction of that freedom may be laid down by law. It can be said that this is the bill that the PiS Senators have submitted, but it is undoubtedly supported by the whole of the PiS and represents the current views of the PiS on the issue of freedom and civil rights. We had many laws that changed the functioning of state bodies, courts, including the constitutional court. We have an eighth law in the Seym, which concerns the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Tribunal. We have, or have we had laws that have passed, passed by most of the Law and Justice. Because that's the way it has to be said: the Sejm doesn't pass, the Senate doesn't pass, but most of the Law and Justice passes. This bill and the previous ones. So we've already had laws that subpoena the prosecutor general's office, which give him enormous powers, not only to direct, but also to decide on the individual issues that the prosecutor's office is leading. We had a bill on electronic media, radio and television, after which radio and television are the tools of government propaganda. And right now we have a bill that affects fundamental civil liberties. Because as far as those laws are concerned... Well, the Constitutional Tribunal may touch directly... but for now, the citizen may not feel it. Television and radio can be turned off. But if you want to show your opinion and your views on the street, show them in public, well, you have to go out on this street. What happened to having a bill like that? What happened? After all, recently, the Home Minister boasted that on 11 November there were dozens of demonstrations and everything was peaceful. What are the reasons for the fact that the majority of the PIS, the parliamentary majority, is acting with such a law? Plus, with the bill, where there's a new legal invention: cyclical gatherings. cyclical gatherings, a new legal invention. So there are also some non-cyclical gatherings. Really, I propose to those who filed this bill to patent it. This is a very important legal invention that other countries, especially in the East, can benefit from. Non-governmental organisations have also been mentioned that are storming. They're storming because they've been proposed before or suggested they'll be organized somehow... And now it's about ordering public gatherings. There will be these more important gatherings, cyclical ones, those more important bodies that can block other people's demonstrations, expressing their wills and views, or restricting others' democracy. After all, it is not only the government, but also the voivode, who is a representative of the government, who may indicate that at this very place, at this time intends to hold a national ceremony. State and national. I won't go into the details of what's gonna happen if these cyclical demonstrations were taking place in the same places. What will the queue look like, who will be first in line, who will be second in line, who will be last. I want to say that this is a dangerous amendment, dangerous to democracy in Poland, because she For the first time in my life It directly affects citizens' rights and freedoms. This proposal repeatedly violates the Constitution, its Article. 2, Article Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, Article Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 57 o, this one in particular - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 163, Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) It violates so many articles that I got tired of reading which articles of our Polish constitution are being violated. It also violates the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and will therefore be subject to appeal at the European Court of Human Rights. Because we signed a convention that gives us that right, Art. The 11th Human Rights Convention gives... It is clear that he is being violated and that the Convention gives the right to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. And don't tell us that we're taking anything abroad, that we're complaining about Poland. We have the right to do so and we will exercise this right in a situation where most of us are violating fundamental rights. What consequences can this bill have? What can it lead to? I will no longer develop the fact that this 100 m belt, behind which another demonstration can take place, is not really 100 m, but it is 100 m from each side. And this demonstration, which is in the middle and is to be secured by this particular law, must also be about 50 m. So that's a total of 250 meters. So in a situation where such a demonstration goes down the street, counter-demonstration may be, go ahead, but on the next street. That's the reality here. This bill causes a lot of public concern, big, I'd say, social upheaval. It could lead to a situation we don't want to see on the street. And she's provoking speeches and demonstrations. The first thought I had after reading this bill was this: well, I'm going to demonstrate. But I don't have to do this, I'm in the Senate, and I have the right to speak in the Senate, and I have the right to protest here against this bill. But the creators who make such a law must be aware of the consequences of such lawmaking. Does this mean that after the introduction of this law there will be no demonstrations, which will be next to another demonstration? That people won't stand with posters? I'm afraid there's going to be a bill that won't block that kind of movement... [[Mr. Marshal, it's time...]] ...and may provoke confrontation. It can provoke confrontation, because the government will say you're breaking the bill, so we can use emergency measures. This isn't the way! We shouldn't go the way that leads to situations like this. [[Mr. Marshal, time.]] Thank you very much... [[Thank you very much...]] I believe that this bill must be rejected. At the same time, I support Senator Flork's amendment and I submit some of my amendments. I hope that if this bill passes, these amendments will make this bill go better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! On 22 July last year, the Sejm debated the amendment of the Assembly Act. One of the most discussed changes was to decide who has priority in the case of gatherings... of crucifixion marches. The draft law put this problem into the hands of the municipal negotiator, and if it did not lead to an agreement, the organizer who had previously notified the meeting had the right to the planned tour. During the debate there were many voices of outrage that it was an excessive restriction of civil liberties, that it was an attack on democracy. I quote one of the words: "This causes" ..this law.. That these conventions may not take place in one place and in one time. In our view, according to the Law and Justice Club, this is, however, an excessive interference with the constitutional right to assembly and it is up to the authorities of the State to ensure the freedom of expression in this case. High Izbo, these words were said last year by a prominent law and justice politician... [[Sasin.]] ...message Jacek Sasin. What has happened over the past year that you have so radically changed your mind that you deny your own views expressed during numerous public discourses? I remember how you regretted defending these freedoms, how the President of Law and Justice resented the proposed solution. So why does this law, so hastily passed with the violation of all standards of correct legislation, without consultation, without recognition and respect, in violation of the opinions expressed by the highest legal authorities, the Supreme Court, the ombudsman present here, a number of non-governmental organisations, in fact contrary to public opinion? In the explanatory memorandum of the law, the applicants explain what changes are to be made in specific regulations, but in a word they do not mention why they are to be introduced, what or who the governing camp is afraid of and what it wants to achieve by actually introducing anti-democratic rules. In the last few days, there have been a lot of substantive issues in the ongoing debate, usually devastating to the bill of analysis and opinions that really answer my questions. I'll quote some of them. The Supreme Court's opinion: The closer analysis of the content of the project raises doubts as to whether the actual subject matter of the intended regulation is simply a far-reaching restriction of freedom of assembly. In other words, the provisions constitute a conscious and obvious attempt to violate constitutional order, and in particular Article. 2 of the Constitution as regards the rule of law expressed therein. And then there's an opinion that says that the project has all the characteristics of martial law... excuse me, the state of emergency. I will point out a few obvious solutions which are contrary to the law, which are proposed by the Act. Firstly, it violates the constitutional guarantee of freedom of assembly. Secondly, it favours power towards ordinary citizens; the submission is still in force, despite the amendments tabled. Thirdly, it infringes the principle of proportionality, i.e. too restrictively restricts the right of assembly against possible dangers. Fourthly, the bill was adopted in hurried mode, not to say: in a slightly hysterical mode. Fifthly, he is imprecise about the location and time of the assembly. Sixthly, it introduces discretion in the issue of permits. Seventhly, there is no possibility of effective civilised appeal against the decision of officials. Mr. Marshal, I have the impression that Law and Justice have a short memory. What last year's debate on the novel of the Congress Act called the implementation of Belarusian standards was quotes. By restricting freedom and returning to the dark times of the Polish People's Republic, today he calls the concern for security and order during the organized manifestations. It's just soaping your eyes so you don't say it's just hypocrisy. I have the impression that power is afraid of citizens, is afraid of society, and that it will introduce laws that I think will be used when social moods get worse and probably get worse. Then officials, voivodeships will decide who will be able to manifest their views, and who will not be able to do so, because for now the law introduces the priority of state assemblies. I remember from history that power has always found ways to limit fundamental human rights when democratic standards were violated permanently. She has always found a way to limit or prevent her views from being manifested. Today I reminded Mr Borusewicz, present here, as in 1979 on the ninth anniversary of December events we tried to put flowers and wreaths under gate No. 2 of Gdańsk Shipyard. And what did the power come up to prevent us from doing that? Except, of course, for searches and detentions. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a method. She set it up around a fence where there was a manifestation... She just stopped the trams there, stopped the trams and parked the trams, which caused the demonstration to be limited. There are many examples of this. Pope John Paul came to Gdansk in 1987. II, it was a long-awaited visit. He laid flowers at the Monument of the Fallen Shipyards and thousands of Gdansk people wanted to attend this ceremony to accompany the Holy Father. The authorities came up with an idea and got it all the way from the north. Poland disguised, in civilian clothes, militia officers and the Security Service. Well, she found a method to limit the ability of the Gdansk people to express their views with such a longing for John Paul. II. Marshal Borusewicz asked what kind of freak these cyclical manifestations were. Well, I can laugh and say, Mr. Marshal, that in the Polish People's Republic such a cyclical manifestation was... [[May 1st.]] ...of May 1st. Today you are more gracious, because you will allow such a cyclical manifestation of 100 m. That's when you guys were jerking off as soon as somebody showed up on the horizon. We know from our experiences that it was painful. This law returns in spirit and in terms of some solutions to dark times. And I hope that the President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda will take the opportunity to demonstrate his attachment to constitutional values by vetoing this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u358	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u359	I'm just gonna get some water, 'cause I'm gonna read a lot. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that in both the speeches of my predecessors of the senators, but also in the public space there were many comments concerning the draft of this law. And I'd like to apologize to my colleagues, because I think I'm going to surprise you a little bit. I personally believe this is a very good bill. [[Bravo!]] It is a very good law, because it organizes the whole public sphere in the field of demonstration. Why do we need some counter-demonstrations? I remember May 1st, July 22nd... Back then, things were organized, and no one had to tell us on the sidelines what else we wanted, why we wanted to do it. So I personally think she has one more mistake. Not 100 m away, but in another county town there could possibly be counter-demonstrations. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that would be a good proposition... [[applause]] ...who will give back what you want. [[Voice from the room: How about an amendment?]] Mr. Senator, I'm inviting you here, and you'll be able to speak your wisdom. Allow me now to... You will remember that those who appeared on the counter-demonstrations on 11 November, the later Deputy Minister Kryze then put them in prison. So that there are Poles in us, especially those who are under the sign of Law and Justice, any desire to organize cyclical demonstrations and that no one else should say anything else. Well, what's the point? There's nothing smart about it. He won't tell. There were examples. Well, why such a good example, except for the Polish People's Republic? Well, it's not like I'm accusing you of having a PRL in your mind or in your spirit. After all, there are many outstanding people here fighting for a new Poland, about... So I don't think you have in your spirit and in your heart and in the heads of the Polish People's Republic. So I've been looking for information, and I've asked many people here before me if there's such a country in the world... Well, I think we're closest to Belarus. Well, there's been a close-up... Mr. Marshal was, you can see nice pictures, well, maybe there he consulted the issues of the bill. [[Me?]] No, no, Mr. Marshal Karczewski. And now the question of what you're raising, namely security. This is a very important argument. Like I said, to the neighboring county town... Only there can be demonstrations. Cyclic, you will determine which states are, and the rest of you can continue protesting and countermanufacturing 20 km away. Now, if we look at the issues of all kinds of opinions, starting with the Supreme Court... Some professors out there... No, no, ladies and gentlemen, I disagree with you here again. They're not professors. They're just professors who don't seem to have a clue. I apologise for the fact that the bill was designed. Well, there are many outstanding professors in Law and Justice who, during various debates on these opinions, said: these are opinions with which we disagree and we may have different opinions. Well, bravo, bravo. The Supreme Court's authority... This body is actually a group of people who have absolutely nothing to propose about the bill discussed here. If, ladies and gentlemen, we add to this the opinion of the ombudsman here who said what he said, I think you listened with understanding. And as far as the Ombudsman's political views are concerned, it's a draft bill... And I must say, Mr Ombudsperson, that I disagree with you again, my colleagues in Law and Justice have a fantastic bill that will make Europe better. There will be no protests, no counter-manufacturing, no need to use the police... We're gonna cut costs, we're gonna improve security... Well, it's a fantastic bill. And now the NGOs. I personally, although I have a great heart for non-governmental organizations, feel that they are protesting unnecessarily. Because once the Prime Minister has set up a national management centre for NGOs, the 156 organisations that have signed up will have little negative impact on the Charter when assessing the proposals. So I don't think they should have signed in. Now the question of representatives of the OSCE or the European Human Rights Council. Mr Michael Georg Link, a representative of the OSCE, says that this bill has the potential to undermine civil liberties. Well, and the OSCE representative, the Germans, will tell us how we're supposed to organize demonstrations and countermandations, right? No, there's been another complaint. I'm sorry to show my hand to the Civic Platform. The people of the Civic Platform have complained to Mr.Michael George Link that there is such a good, innovative bill and so many protests. Similarly, Mr Nils Muižnieks, a Latvian citizen, sign the view that the draft law undermines civil liberties. Well, what I'm asking is, isn't there any other problems in Latvia? Do you have to take care of Poland? Well, Russia by its side, thousands of problems, and the guy about Poland will talk about it. Therefore, colleagues, you have 100% Right. And now, finally, I would like to quote your views. Mr. Spokesperson, as a person who is probably not to be fully quoted from all of what you have said, and especially from colleagues who are not in the Chamber right now, and who have spoken during the debate on President Komorowski's 2012 Act... I just want to say that this law of President Komorowski, which you also mentioned here, has been strongly discussed and has been changed very strongly, liberalized in relation to the project which... It was in this House that the discussion could be heard in many very good voices of the opposition. This law has been liberalised. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Tribunal considered that many of its provisions, and it can practically be said that most of them are suitable for basketball and have never entered into force. She carried, as you remember, such a message... referred to four such issues: shortening to 3 days the deadline for filing applications for registration, covering faces, the order of notification for which the decision was taken. The Court considered that the criteria were unclear that the officials here would have too much to say and appeal. And she went to the trash. Compared to what you are proposing here, this was something delicate and actually unsuccessful, as the Court has confirmed. That's a good bill... And how bad was the other one... I'll read you some quotes. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski: It's about the project, about the introduction of this law. Don't we give the local government a muzzle to block democracy? 'Cause if there's a manifesto in the office, all you have to do is call a city attorney or somebody else will call a friendly organization, and this organization will file a motion, and that way it'll just block itself out inconvenient to the authorities... This is unfortunately the consequence of the logic of accepting such records. I believe that this is an outrageous record and that it should be withdrawn as much as possible. Mr. Senator Bogdan Pak said fantastic things, well, words I won't say: "Or maybe it's still different, maybe it's about closing the opposition's mouth to the end?" It's that bill. Mr. Senator said this: "Public media has been totally embezzled. What we're talking about in both Chambers, it's a strange thing to say about democratic media. So the opposition is complaining that the media has been embezzled. And then you're going to stop the demonstration. Against this there are all the authorities I know in the field of civil rights, as well as organisations. Well, look at that. Someone was protesting, Mr. Senator took that into account. And Mr. Senator Dobkowski: The Law on Assembly, revised by the Sejm, clearly gives the authorities the opportunity to introduce a ban on assembly for the opposition, a ban on assembly which may be detrimental to the rulers. Mr. Dobkowski said, "Dobkowski doesn't look at houses yet, although it doesn't tell us what it really looks like, if there aren't any bugs." So then the period of civil society will end as this law of the democratic society in which the right to demonstration is an expression of freedom and human rights will enter into force, and we will have a situation similar to the time when Poland was not on the map of the world, or to that of the period of the Polish People's Republic, when it was not sovereign. [[Time, Senator, 10 minutes...]] And last sentence, Mrs. Marshal. In order not to use five minutes later, I will read what Senator Elephant said and one sentence of Senator Burns. Mrs. Marshal, I'm almost done. Senator Elephant: I believe that public hygiene requires that those who do not have access to the media I will add: to the national budget resources, to the management of the services responsible for order, they have had the opportunity to express their opinions effectively and unhindered, even if they are not in the hands or in the interests of the rulers Perhaps, in particular, it should be possible to express an opinion. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] And finally, Mrs. Marshal, I swear, last sentence. [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, time is up. It's two minutes late.]] But then I won't take advantage of those five minutes, Mrs. Marshal. [[Mr. Senator...]] Mrs. Marshal, really, I swear... Senator Pęk said this: "The first point is that freedom is not given to societies, nations once and for all. Freedom must be cultivated and freedom must be fought hard. I don't get drunk on freedom. I say this to my friend, Hodorowicz's scholar But even if someone gets drunk on freedom, he will never do as much damage as he will do to a person who gets drunk on power, uncontrollable power. And that's where I'd like to end it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u360	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grażyna Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! ♪ I'm in the spirit ♪ I'll tell you what. Previously on "Secretary..." I would like to start by saying that unfortunately history likes to repeat itself. In this connection, I would like to start by quoting from Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's speech from last year's debate on the assemblies, in which he said: "I would like to thank those who had the courage to call for democratic freedom and have the best title to do this because it can be said that their own blood, example and suffering contributed to Poland's regaining independence. The people's authority, as it forbids something, and people violated this ban in the name of the struggle for freedom, it must have used militias, ZOMOs, some other instruments for pacification. Today it is tried in gloves, through legal formulas, connection with financial responsibility, procedures, giving discretion to officials. As I watched yesterday's meeting of the two joint committees on which the bill was debated, I would like to refer to Mr Czarnobaj's statement... I would like to dedicate it to you, but not only dedicate it to the 1985 text. I took part in the so-called. cyclical manifestations which took place in the church area and were even legal according to that legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read it to you. It's for caution. I'd like to read... That's the plan. operational and pre-emptive actions to safeguard the conduct of the hearing before the College of Offences against Grażyna Annie Sztark of 28 August this year at 1 p.m. On 28 August 1985, at 1 p.m., a hearing will take place in front of the College of Misdemeanors at the Białogard City Head of the City of Białogard against Grażyna Annie Sztark. Citizen Štark on 7 August led an illegal assembly in the church square under the call of the Virgin Mary in Białogard. This assembly was political in nature. The above mentioned act exhausts the signs of an offence under Article. 52 §1 (1) of the Code of Offences. The assembly was documented photographically and audibly and witnessed. The full documentation was addressed to the college president at the city chief in Białogard. The Deputy Head of the Regional Internal Affairs Office for Security Services, Major Nowakowski, has prepared the appropriate composition of the college. The public prosecutor will be a member of the Department of Prevention of the Provincial Interior Office in Koszalin, Ensign Domanski. After reading the documentation submitted to the College, Citizen Sztark appointed a citizen of Słowronska, known for her previous hostile actions and speeches. Grażyna Anna Sztark personally accepted a summons for the trial. We predict that the blamed person may act as follows: in an effort to make public, he will report to the hearing together with his colleagues, former activists and members of the "Solidarity," he will not apply for the hearing due to his being on leave and may also present a medical release at the last minute. We therefore plan the following actions: we agreed with the chairman of the formation that he would not agree to attend the hearing of colleagues and fellow citizens of Sztark, former members and activists of Solidarity, with the exception of the representative Major Nowakowski; two SB officers and the forensics techniques of the local internal affairs office will be located in a private car parked in front of the entrance to the building where the hearing room is located, in order to take photos of persons going to the trial, mainly former members and supporters of the former Lieutenant Kubiak will do it. Since the hearing will normally take place, the decision of the college is enforceable. In this situation, the blamed party may continue its activities in the church square on 31 August. The security of this planned assembly will be covered by a separate action plan. The punishment by the College of Nationals of Štark with the penalty of absolute detention can be used by former activists of the Solidarity and the local clergy to make their appearances, so on 28 August at 6.30 p.m. the Mass at the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Białogard and the Mass on 31 August and 1 September will be secured. If the citizen of Štark fails to present her medical certificate, the hearing will be held in absentia. The presentation of a medical certificate will result in an urgent agreement with the Chair of the College and the Chair of the formation hearing on the next date of the hearing. Major Leszek Nowakowski, Deputy Head of the Office of Internal Affairs for the Security Service in Białogard, will be responsible for the whole operation. Then it turned out that my colleagues, who also participated in this illegal cyclical assembly, were acquitted by the College of Misdemeanors. And here, ladies and gentlemen, the voivode stepped in. Well, I'm telling you what a voivod can do. Well: the commission, after examining the case at the request of the Provincial Office of the Interior in Koszalin, decided to repeal the final decision of the College of Offences in the Koszalin Voivodeship of 2 October 1985 as, of course, wrong. The College of Second Instance, when giving a judgment of acquittal, took the view that the act was not punishable because the accused attended a religious assembly. It appears from the evidence in the file that the meeting took place at 19 p.m. on 31 August 1985. Fifteen, 19 40 in Białogard, it was not a religious service or service, and therefore required the authorisation of the public administration, in accordance with the provisions of Article. 8 the Law of 29 March 1962 on conventions. Since the organisers did not have the required permission from the competent authority of the state administration, there is no doubt that it was an illegal assembly. In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 52 §1 of the Code of Offences Participation in an illegal assembly constitutes a criminal offence under the jurisdiction of the College of Offences. In the light of the above, the committee decided as in the operative part. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal again. I fear not you, but those who come for you. Ladies and gentlemen, history should teach us that we must not go back in any way to the things we have already experienced and from which we should learn a profound lesson. And that's why I asked the Minister if there were any penalties for those who would run an illegal assembly. The minister said they'd be here. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that. I can return this document to you. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't do this. Do not do this, for the next ones to be reached by this law will be you. At this point, Mrs Marshal, I would like to make amendments on behalf of myself and on behalf of Mr Piotr Flork, including among others. a motion to reject in its entirety this law as clearly bad and dangerous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u362	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! December is not a good time for demonstrations and assemblies, and especially for work on this law, especially since it is made at such a rate and has occasional records. Both the left and the right side are clear about this. December is also not a good time because the latest history of Poland abounds in tragic events related to December conventions, demonstrations. I am talking about what took place in 1970, when shipbuilders wanted to express their concern about wage increases and in the absence of the right to strike or other forms of protest, or even in the face of ignorance, they went outside the yard. We know how many cities and how these demonstrations have ended. It was even more tragic in 1980. This affected not only shipbuilders, but the whole of Poland. Surprisingly, the elements of the bill now under review... This all occurred at that time in December, during the attempt by the Romaszewskis, supported by the National Commission, however, this was of a civil character, not only the trade union demonstration at the Defilad Square. This attempt was, of course, blocked. The trammen's attempt to demonstrate their support for this demonstration was blocked and it was precisely the meters we are talking about here. The trams could go, they could protest, but, God forbid, not from power. The power already knew, as it is now, that you can demonstrate, you can gather, but not before power, because where there is a place for power... because power has priority. That power. . other authorities also I would like to say that he accepts some conventions, e.g. May 1st or the celebration of rebirth, and other expressions of support. Then you can demonstrate before the authorities, that is, before the buildings of power. I believe that our discussion... I would ask you to listen to my argument. Perhaps there is a need to deepen this discussion. Well, the bill introduces, so to speak, a balance between citizens and public authority. In fact, the term "public authority" is wrong. We're the public authorities. But we're not going to do a demonstration, and we're going to recommend the voivodeship to do something or not. So that there is absolute nonsense here, at least that's what I think. It was probably the administrative authorities of the country. If you read the constitution, if you understand the ombudsman and the court, it's like the NGOs that were... Looks like we're talking about rights here... the Constitution chapter is called... This is the subsection "Freedom and political rights," and the chapter concerns citizens' rights and freedoms. And consistently That's the vocabulary. Everyone's allowed. You are wrong, Senator Czerwiński, when he says that the rights of freedom of assembly contained in the article. 57 can be limited, but... You're wrong when you say they can be expanded. Well, this law extends the rights assigned to citizens to organize assemblies... gives them power. Well, that's, uh, sorry, at least a mix-up of chapters. Let's take a look at the art. 157 Constitution, which speaks of what is appropriate to the Council of Ministers, which is an important body of public administration, which has at its disposal, among others. Voivodeship. The Constitution, Mr Senator, does not grant the Council of Ministers or its bodies, ministers and president the right to hold assemblies. Well, then, your statement... In fact, you say that in some cases the law may restrict something, while at the same time allowing it to be the right of assembly to assign to the Council of Ministers, including its President, on the same terms as they are to citizens. Well, I'm very sorry, but it would be illogical, or at least it wouldn't be in the natural order if the authorities were to hold assemblies, the administrative authorities would hold assemblies. I don't deny power to meet with citizens. I even think she should be seeing them. And so on. it does so in a continuous, consistent manner in the reform of the education system. Along with it In fact, congresses of citizens with the opposite sentence or perhaps, which I rarely notice are in favour. So this law carries in itself the original sin... steals citizens from their privileges, at least one of the two, so that they can participate in the debate in a large way. This is not only about opposition to power, but also about its support. It is all about participating in the debate on public matters. And it's not necessarily gonna be like you put two opposing groups of people up here who are gonna bother each other or even shoot each other. These two groups of people can simply meet, as the convention definition says. Only one of the cases is that these two demonstrations that you spoke about, whether these two assemblies can present completely different thesis. They might as well be talking about the same problem with different voices. And that's the essence of the assembly, citizens can show their will in public matters, perhaps even to the nation and to the world. The assumption that citizens gather to get wasted or, God forbid, other things to do is a false assumption. All the more false is the assumption that power must be given an additional right to intervene in the way these assemblies are organized, to give it the privilege to block them or, as the Supreme Court has called it, a monopoly in this respect. This law grants power a monopoly on the organisation of public gatherings, which may be freely and at a later time, i.e. after citizens have already chosen a place for this debate, forbid them to organise it in connection with the convening of their own assembly. And among others. That's what this monopoly is all about. I don't want to... I know my time is limited. I do not want to prove that power, including the power of PiS and others, builds its philosophy on the basis of opposition, prevention of possible gatherings or demonstrations. My colleagues, me too, have laid down... This law does not comply with the axiological principles of the Constitution and is therefore not acceptable, and any amendments will be merely a perstigation of some warp from which some undefined mass will come out for us. And in this sense, a proposal to reject the law in its entirety is pure and fair, and perhaps to work on another, although practice indicates that it is unnecessary. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Mrs. Marshal, last sentence. But, as you know, I'm a man of understanding. Since it was rejected in advance, without any discussion, a request for discussion at the committee meeting, since I do not see the elements of the discussion here either, with the exception of some announcements of unclear amendments for me, and since my colleagues have already tabled other amendments, proposals to improve the bill, I go further. My amendments are aimed at removing from it simply the absurd unworthy of the Senate. What is a congregation that is not a congregation? And here it is. What's this? There is talk of a cyclical assembly, and then two articles say... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...that it doesn't have to happen once, it doesn't have to happen twice, and it doesn't have to be a third time if something else happens there. But... [[Mr. Senator, we have to go now.]] Excuse me, I appeal, especially to colleagues: if you already have the power to convince, at least mathematically, then no one will release you from the duty of logical thinking. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u364	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Mr. Marshal! There have been so many specific provisions, and this law is a specific political act. That's why I want to put an accent on this. We've been trying to figure out what kind of bill the author has. We feel who wrote it. She has an author in the form of fear, fear. Mr. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. and Mrs. You want to restrict the right to assembly because you are afraid of the demonstrators, those demonstrating in the defence of the Constitutional Tribunal, in defence of the independence of the prosecution, in defence of the independence of the media, in defence of good education, those who demand the execution of what they promised, want help for the franchise, those who are about to go out on the streets to protest against the demolished health services. That's what you're afraid of. That's what this is about. And yet you were to be on the side of the people, to be with the disfellowshipped. Today you divide, rule out, and you want to forbid, you want to make it difficult. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is so interesting... It's a logical thing to do. We're in the Senate, we're starting to put it together slowly. Several speeches listed a series of laws that emerge from the same culture of distrust. From the culture of distrust comes the fear that he wrote this law, from the fear of the world rise populism, and from the fear of people, from their freedom, from their intentions comes authoritarianism. And this is the path, this is the course, the dangerous course you've chosen. You're so consistent because it grows on a certain soil, on a certain culture of thinking. Well, ladies and gentlemen, many times there has been another word here, from the opposite shore, the word trust, trust in those who want to demonstrate that they are going in good faith, even if they oppose us, trust that they are going with a peaceful intention and they are referring to Poland, not that they are the second sort, non-patriots, and God knows who else, arsonists of Poland and... Well, there's a lot more we're gonna hear. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to represent the same spirit that, as it were, is at the heart of democracy, which is at the heart of the constitution, which, of course, this law must oppose. We represent a culture of trust Despite all the differences, trust in colleagues on the opposite side of the political scene, trust in other people, trust in those who disagree with us. I would like to say, and it is not the first time from this speaker, that the worst that can happen in Poland is the destruction of trust. That is why I believe that this law speaks a lot about authors, talks a lot about the current and future situation in our homeland. Let us defend the right to express our views freely, trust those who preach against our views, trust that they work in harmony with democracy and for the common good. Unfortunately, this law is completely opposite to the Pole, and we should oppose it. I support the amendments that have been tabled here. And I'm making it look like there's some kind of self-correction. If the outcome of this debate is that it will not be privileged in access or in the implementation of the right to public procurement... [[Voice from the hall: Assembly.]] ...we who represent a culture of trust will feel... [[Voice from the hall: To the assembly!]] To the assembly. ...we're gonna feel like we're winning. And believe me, in this game, Law and Justice won't be a loser. He'll also be a winner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u366	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Marek Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u367	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, the Senate is a House of reflection and reflection. That is why, after yesterday's committee meeting, after a night's reflection and after the morning dawn, I tabled two amendments by noon today, which were mentioned here by Senator Augustine. These are two short amendments and I would like to briefly discuss them here. First: Article. 1 point 1 is deleted. So it's an amendment that's re-establishing the current state. There will therefore be no priority to assemblies organized by public authorities and assemblies held in the framework of the activities of churches and religious unions. This is the first case. And the second amendment: in Article. 3 the words 'on the date of publication' shall be replaced by 'on the expiry of 14 days from the date of publication'. I think this amendment does not require justification. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that Senator Florek, who had previously spoken as rapporteur for minorities, asked the question of what this Senate is for. Well, I'm just here to ease this bill, and I'm here to make these two amendments. And I hope that all the senators, including the opposition, will vote in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u368	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened very carefully to the senator. In fact, the Senate is such a Chamber which can, in peace and through a substantive discussion, make some changes that improve the quality of the established law, but also show a completely different way. Since there are various laws and very often we discuss various laws in great emotions, I would like to appeal for consideration. It is very easy to change the law and it is very easy to set new standards or move borders, but please remember that since the change in the political and economic system in our country, authorities are changing. Once more, once less, but they change. And when we cross the next line, someone who comes after us and creates a government can move that line even further. If we introduce brutal laws or regulations that are appropriate for today, which correspond to the political need for today, then... Please remember that someone who will change these laws more drastically may come after us, because it is necessary to say so, tomorrow will be quite different and perhaps more brutal. By changing the bill, showing that you have the majority, saying, we can change the law and do everything... Then those who have the majority fall into a trap: what they approve really becomes snares upon them with such snares that they will fall into in a few years' time. It's a good thing, Senator, that you're making such amendments today, because what's happening in democracy... The point is that we may feel differently that we can protest that we may not want and disagree with something, but any element aimed at restricting freedom, any attempt to restrict our freedom of speech, thinking, opposition leads to very dangerous practices and behaviour. In politics, it's like when a boat gets too rocky, then it's really hard to calm it down on this one, let's call it a rocky political water. And today I would like to ask everyone in this Chamber that we, when working on this law and making amendments, should have regard to those very basic civil rights that we have been fighting for. I must tell you, colleagues from Law and Justice, that despite my young age I have been in parliament for many years, and only now do I meet with such opposition treatment as I have not been accustomed to before and with which I have not met before. I think it's dangerous and wrong. We can argue and argue, we can even be very sharp towards each other. And not to say aggressive, we can emphasize our points very strongly, we can be together. I don't agree, but in my opinion, it's always a fundamental principle that... this fundamental principle is that it's worth listening to someone who has a different opinion, and it's also worth respecting the minority's opinion. This is about the feeling that we can influence what is happening in the Polish Parliament. I have a feeling I'm talking to Senator Martynowski, especially him, because we're about the same age. That over the last year, the balance that had... the situation that has been so far has changed a little bit, and even, you can say, it has changed significantly. And I ask you to respect the opposition, because once the opposition rules, it can do the same. If we are fair to each other, if we treat each other with respect, if we want to cooperate and listen to each other and not limit ourselves, we really will build a strong Poland, a Poland that is really developing. That's what I'm calling for today, and that's what I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u370	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jarosław Oremski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I guess it's that because of the different social functions they're different... Another is the view of the government, the Minister of the Interior, the Police, other ombudsman, and perhaps another should also be the view of the Senate. Another is the sensitivity of the co-managing party and the opposition party. The police, the Home Office optimizes security, doesn't optimize freedom, I dare even claim that if you gave the police full right to make legislation, there wouldn't be any gatherings, there wouldn't be any football matches. The Ombudsman has a duty to optimise freedom rather than security, although we are aware that security is also an important element of freedom. However, I do not agree that this law must be rejected. Rather, I agree with the senator that it should be adopted without amendments, so that it becomes effective. And I don't think it's as scary as it was painted in the debate. I think it's the opposite. In practice, it increases and secures civil liberties. Because isn't it, ladies and gentlemen, a restriction on freedom that someone out of fear doesn't go to the manifestation, even though he would like to go to it? I say, for example. about patriotic manifestations. He'd probably like to go to the demonstration on November 11th, perhaps with the children, to teach them patriotism. But will he go with them if he can expect there to be a riot, a fight, a fight, throwing stones? He won't go because he wants to protect them. Therefore, your right is being limited, because not only does the power restrict, it also limits the reality and the fellow citizens. This is a quote from the 2012 debate, from Senator Abgarowicz's statement. There are also other quotations that show some wonderful reversal of roles. I've got it. Oh, there's no Mr. Czarnobaj. "Some doubt that it is not so that this law in 2012 as a result of a certain shift of excessive responsibility towards the president of the assembly was more dangerous in the context of a certain democratic practice than what we are discussing today. But I understand that this is a matter of assessment. I also remember Mr Cimoszewicz's statement, which at the time referred to the decrees of Vladimir Putin. I remember Mr Komorowski's not very fortunate statement at the time, which he justified: "We will arm the policemen in the belief that the Polish state had made sure that the assemblies were not organised in such a way that this is the problem of the police officer's responsibility and the risk of a police officer." It was emphasized as a certain danger. For the sake of fairness, I would like to say that I also have quotations from the statements of the PIS senators, but they were already quoted as if they were quoted, so maybe I would just quote this passage: "In my opinion, freedom of assembly is important and should take precedence over, I would say, some facilitations which administrative authorities, ordering... Etc. Let me add that this senator is a voivode right now, so maybe this is If he has persisted in his views It's supposed to calm you down a little bit. I think the key here is that there's no trust on both sides. That's the key. There was a fear in the PiS in 2012, which resulted from the fact that there was a monopolization of three main televisions, it was also a time when the Republic could be said to have lost its independence. Now, tell me... Well, we have consequences in terms of eliminating a de facto certain supplement. Which, of course, had right-wing coloring, but on a certain level, I would say, philosophical, i.e. ♪ Plus Minus ♪ ♪ in the Republic of Poland ♪ There's a fear in the CODE now. Mr. Kievsky says he's afraid of being arrested. There's an instruction for the Vocal Gazeta to carry a toothbrush, etc. It's... There is also a call for civil disobedience, and there is a modern messenger, who says so, calls for civil disobedience of the military and police. But let's get back to the point. 100 m. It's just that before we agreed to the non-crucifixion of counter-manifestation. And I'd say that's the solution. maybe safer for the police, i.e. indirectly and for the citizens, maybe cheaper. And if I had any doubt, I would say that in relation to the events that are taking place in Germany, where every demonstration of Alternative für Deutschland is balanced with anti-fascist derivatives... If we look also at the French experience, we will see that we have all this very polite. I mean, in the last five years, let's say, just one car and one booth... It can be said that it is too much, but I would say that in Poland, however, the atmosphere of the dispute on the streets is not extreme. Well, of course we remember 2011, export... [[Voice from the hall: The Levaks.]] ...from Germany and street fighting. The argument of the European Court of Human Rights concerning sight and sound shows two elements in my view. Firstly, that this is how dialogue is established. Well, I have a problem with that. That is, events in 2011 were a dialogue between German anti-fascists and Polish nationalists. I remember the ONR demonstration in Wroclaw and the counter-manifestation that consisted of whistling by the other side. I don't know if this is a dialogue. So there's the second function, which is that it's made clear by these steps that are coming at each other, that there's a division. Well, I do not rule out that as a result of such a collision of two derivatives someone in Poland will notice that in Poland there is some deep political division, but I have the impression that although maybe a collection of those who do not know it is not empty, it is getting smaller. So even this function doesn't seem so important to me. There's a record of a certain religious preference, and I have to say I have a problem with that. Because I see some legislative changes in Europe that are dangerous to me as a practicing Catholic, and I feel that there are certain rights of believers being limited. It also has a connection... There is a case quoted here by Latvia, which deals with Polish matters, and which very clearly in the report on Poland shows how it is fatally in Poland with human rights, above all reproductive rights, because access to abortion is too small. I welcome the declaration and remind you of his declaration before taking up office when we asked him in the Senate that he did not consider the right to abortion to be a human right. But in this report, Latvian de facto, that's how it's located. So I have some concern about how we should protect the rights of believers. I remember an event like this that a young man was convicted of manifesting during Professor Bauman's lecture. We now have phenomena such as, I dare say, a television setup in the form of a protest during the Holy Mass of one of the activists of feminist movements. And we should settle a little bit, and maybe there's an element here that there are some sacrum zones where there's no protest, where the protest is regulated by us as inadmissible. Let it be a church, let it be a theatre, let it be universities, or wherever it may be free. I don't think that's how it is in Poland right now. There may be a problem, I have concerns, but for now I perceive it as disproportionate to what is happening in Poland. The issue of religious freedom is still regulated in Poland, in my opinion, more culture than practice. I don't see any big problems in the fact that you can order a demonstration area three years ahead in case of events that are regular. With a small buttock It's a bit late, though. In case of priority for events or events, demonstrations organized by a public entity... I'm not hostile to this record, but I'd prefer it to be detailed when, I mean. to be given e.g. Some dates. In Wrocław it is customary that on 3 May, 11 November there are marches of troops, speech of voivods, some other people of power on the Wrocław market. I am able to imagine that there is an attempt by the nationals to take 11 November, for example. On May 3 the new left moves its manifestations and this day takes away. Perhaps such a tactical mention of certain things and security would be a solution, because I do not rule out that such a fight will be. It seems to me, but perhaps somebody will explain to me that there is a gap in the possibility of appealing from the voivodeship's decision to reserve the manifesto space for three years. [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] And that's kind of a problem. My trouble... [[Time's up.]] Good. The thing is, I'm taking it so far, maybe there's some disproportion here. I believe that this is a more lenient law than it was adopted in July 2012. I see a wonderful change of places. But I honor those who then went across: Mr. Spokesman and Mr. Józef Pinior, who was the only one on the Platform who had a different view. In my opinion, it would be worth it and here I believe that a certain dialogue makes sense, I say that, contrary to appearances, we are closer to each other than further. To bend over these laws and settle the issue of spontaneity, to resolve the question of the President, by limiting his subsequent responsibility, and to settle a few other matters that could be settled, so that we all feel safer, one and the other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u372	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u373	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I will actually speak less emotionally, but equally critically about this bill, maybe from a slightly different perspective, slightly different perspective. Namely, the criticism of what I see here, I would base on the fact that in my opinion this law reflects the disregard of society, and I would even call it the arrogance of the current power. This is reflected in the fact that it is another parliamentary project, which was introduced by Members in a simplified way, but actually a promoter of this project. That's how I get it. There is power, there is government and only a convenient path has been chosen, the legislative path. Secondly, this law is introduced without a clear need to increase security. You can always talk about increasing security because it's hypothetical and it's hard to deny. However, from the discussion, there was no need for such steps. Thirdly, this law is introduced with full disregard for the international organisations we are members of and the conventions we have adopted. It's not just a question of the number of organizations, it's also their meaning. I do not agree with Senator Oremski, who was quite disrespectful about the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. I don't agree with that. The issue of abortion in different countries is different, we have the right to our position, but others also have the right to their positions. That's it. In my view this bill and the way it is carried out is a demonstration of the attitude I am all free. The country is now Demonstrate and you are right, all the more so because the Constitutional Tribunal is no longer functioning and will be completely incapacitated, so you are free to do anything. Except it's probably gonna turn against society. This law introduces real restrictions against which to protest. I consider this a 100 m restriction, in short, and I will not develop it, because I think the explanations you have presented to the Ombudsman are sufficient. The second limitation, in my opinion, is clear and far-reaching due to cyclical demonstrations. That was a lot of talk, but I would like to draw attention to one point. Namely in the article. Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 the possibility of withdrawal of the authorisation already issued as a result of the submission and acceptance by the voivod of cyclical demonstrations. In my opinion, there is a considerable possibility of blocking places and time in this case. At least potentially The demonstration for which consent has already been given, i.e. those for which there was no doubt as to their safety and consent has been given. Various examples were given. I'll give you an example of a situation that's possible, but I don't think it's gonna happen. I watch it in Warsaw. Well, passing Krakowskie Przedmieście around 9:00 p.m., one can notice that a smaller or larger group of people gathers in front of the presidential palace and prays under the cross, the Jasna Góra Appeal is also held. It seems to me that, because this happens all the time, if these people, or any person representing them, applied for a cyclical demonstration, this would be considered a cyclical demonstration. Anyway, I'm gonna say, not without sympathy, I look at these people, and I'm sorry to see how other people treat them. Apart from the political aspect of the matter, however, it is a public prayer and a certain appreciation for this handful of people, which I think could be formally recognised on the basis of this law... If I had. It seems to me that it lasts over 3 years, it certainly lasts over 3 years. It's actually Krakowskie Przedmieście in the evening, say from 20:00 to 21:30, could be blocked for other demonstrations. Not that I support any other demonstrations... This is a specific situation that I see here, on the spot, and there could be more of these places. So that in the case of this point I am talking about, namely Article. Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3, according to which consent can be withdrawn, I am making an amendment which would remove the possibility of withdrawal of previously issued consents. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a contradiction. In the first part of my speech, I condemned and criticized the bill or the bill. And I will vote against it. On the other hand, I am making an amendment. Referring to the words of our classic I very much recognize him and respect him, who said I am, and even against, I will say the opposite: I am against, and even for, i.e. I believe that the law should not enter into force, but I am making some amendments because they will benefit her if it comes into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[At least they learned to clap. No?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u374	Thank you, Senator. Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I am once again attending the Senate meeting, for which we are being taken to Warsaw and for... It is probably the ninth hour, counting down the break, or maybe the tenth hour of discussion about a bill that actually... After 10 hours of discussion about the bill, we really learn that it will look quite different. Amendments will be tabled which will radically change what we discussed, at least part of it. I wonder if it is really difficult to predict certain situations, since the bill in the Sejm causes a very large outrage to many institutions, the Ombudsman, above all this very strong discussion in the parliamentary chamber next to... Is it hard to predict how similar things will be with us? Folding... I think there's been an amendment that's diametrically reversing what we're talking about here. Is it that someone has no respect for us that someone... This has already happened once again, a similar amendment has been made in the case of a tax-free amount, which is probably similar in the case of the Law on Courts, etc. And once again, we're in a show where after 10 hours of discussion, we learn that what we're discussing changes in a diametric way. I see a friend falling asleep... Well, it's kind of funny that we had to wait 10 hours for... we started discussing again, and that's because once again the things that are being introduced... There are no authors of this bill here. I ignore how many there are, what their names are, and why they didn't bother coming to the Senate to answer our questions. Once again, you're bringing in something that's been left, I'd say, trashed in the Seym, which's been trashed by all the organizations. Let me give you a few examples, which I think all my colleagues have already presented here. Let's get it all into a pill like this. Voices of opposition to this amendment of the Assembly Act most often refer to This is of course justified by breaking the constitutional guarantee of freedom of assembly. That's what we discussed. It hasn't caused any trouble so far... Someone's thought of something special to control it. But what's there to control? So far, we've had a few examples of hooligan freaks in demonstrations, but for many years, no one has caused any street riots or fights including victims. Another argument against the infringement of the principle of proportionality, i.e. excessive restrictions on possible risks. As I said just now, it's all been happening so far. It's hard to put in a statutory record and then support that recipe... This House has become the norm, but not only for this House, in a way that is too hasty to adopt changes in laws. Since the introduction... As I recall, three weeks ago, November 15th, we learned that such a bill would be prosecuted. Another argument against the question of favouring the rule of law against ordinary citizens, the lack of equality against the law. This was particularly emphasized by the Ombudsman, whom I thank for wanting to present himself to us today and in a really rational, very concrete way, and, above all, with kindness in leaning on this matter, he was willing to give a voice to this speaker. Those words should really reach out to those who are about to press the button behind this bill. I hope that for the first time, at least some of the parliamentarians, my colleagues sitting on the right, will not vote as the party commands. They were in opposition, just like my esteemed colleague, Senator Rooster, and they know what freedom of assembly means, freedom of speech, freedom of religion and all other rights guaranteed to us primarily by the constitution on which we should rely in our debates. Another bad entry is the one on discretion in the issue of permits. This discretion will be in the hands of the voivode. We've been discussing this. Well, we see that you can approach this topic in a way that will satisfy those who want to take precedence and consider their manifestation right. Uneffective way of appealing We talked about that, too. That's the subject that... In fact, if someone wants to appeal, it's unlikely that there's a chance, and this appeal process, especially from the official's decision, is unlikely to work. Here, too, an important thing was said by my previous speaker regarding at least this distance, and not only him, because also Mr Janek Rulewski and Mr Marshal Borusewicz. Well, 100 meters is a contractual... Nobody's gonna count it in steps or a meter, it's a contractual thing. But let's remember that 100 meters is not a great distance, but this distance will always be increased by the surroundings, by the police, by some requirements and limitations. Just like they wanted to make things miserable... And there were restrictions on Woodstock Stop, which this year for the first time had to be fenced in length, I can't remember what it was, but it was going in kilometers. And it had to be done for Jurek Owsiak to get permission to organize the bus stop for the 25th time, which was really embarrassing, but most of all expensive, but the party still took place. It is a pity that the announced stamp, which was to be issued by the Polish Post on this occasion, was unfortunately not to be realized, and the Polish Post decided that someone else on the 25th anniversary would be on stamps as part of the edition of Polish Post stamps. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u376	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In this discussion various arguments were used, starting with personal memories which I understand and which I listened to even with interest, and ending with arguments, I would say, a little bypassing the meaning of this discussion. We're talking about the convention bill. What does Woodstock stop have to do with it? We weren't talking about the Woodstock assembly. What does the distribution of positions that fell here as one of the arguments against this novel have to do with it? Finally, there were attempts to compare now organized national celebrations to what was right in the times of the past commune, e.g. May 1st... Well, I confess, I don't see any connections, but maybe it's the right thing to do. Let's get to the bottom of this. I'll quote the article again. 57 Constitution, which is basic here... Namely: Everyone is given the freedom to organize and participate in peaceful gatherings, here I pay attention to the word of peace. And further: The limitation of this freedom can be defined by the law, here I draw attention to the word "law." There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Namely, it's an art. 57 and this is indeed the first article in the group of Freedoms and Political Rights, which means that this is basic freedom from the point of view of the legislator, but this is not the first article in the entire section on civil rights, freedom and civil rights. Earlier is e.g. a law commonly referred to as the right to life, i.e. the right to life and to maintain health. And that's what we need to pay attention to, too. Now, about the change... The essential part of the changes we propose in this novel is related to the so-called. cyclically organized assemblies, but there are others. And maybe we should start with the other ones that aren't related to the core of this bill. The first amendment concerns the introduction of Article. Two extra... lips. 2, where priority is given to assemblies organised by public authority in general, as well as to the activities of churches and other religious associations. This article, this change, as we've heard, is to come up in line with the proposed amendment to this novel, but I'm not very optimistic about removing this change. What is the current legal status? I would like to remind you that this is a July 2015 law, i.e. a law passed at the end of the previous term by the current opposition, mainly the opposition from the Civic Platform. Well, art. The 2th Act in force states that the provisions of the Act do not apply to meetings organised by public authorities and held within the framework of the activities of churches and other religious associations. Let me put it another way: neither public authorities nor churches nor religious unions are required to impose the restrictions that this law brings together, because there are certain restrictions here that concern, for example, the procedure. But this article, like the articles in the previous version of the 1990 law, was understood more widely. Namely, the authorities of the commune to which they were addressed protected, in quotation marks, assemblies organized by public authorities and as part of the activities of churches, gave them priority. That's how it was understood. We want a first proposed change. To be written in a literal way. Question is, does it have to be removed? Well, with the old understanding of this law, the mother's bill. No, no, no, no, But, unfortunately, there have been accidents like this before, that this law is interpreted differently. Let me remind you: Poznań, 2016 anniversary of June events and a clear attempt, successful It wasn't just a test. The military orchestra was blocked and the national anthem, whose representative, Prime Minister, was present at these events. It's a diplomatic scandal. It was just an attempt to interpret the mother's bill differently. [[The Smolensk appeal was there, too.]] Yes. It's just that the Smolensk appeal, Mr. Senator, it's a matter of state. And there the organizer was the local government and the local government questioned the operation of the state. And led to a diplomatic scandal. It was a questioning of the provisions of the law in the old sense. With a new understanding, it wouldn't be possible. Unfortunately, it is, and we have to say it. That's the way the customs went. It would have been unacceptable in the old days. The next specific change is to add to the article. 26 application by way of relief in respect of assemblies, the notification of which is simplified and referred to in Article. 21, Art. 12 and 13. This is a change of order. That's practically something nobody's ever thought about here, because it doesn't cause any controversy. The next issue is the implementation of the law. This is the absence of a sufficiently long vacathio legis and Article. 2, which... to the assemblies of which the organization has already been notified... The new wording of the Act applies here. If the vacathio legis is changed, which I'm in favour of, then this pretension will sort of expire. She's just not gonna be there. Incidentally, I would like to point out that this claim was formulated in a rather dwarf and kind of difficult to accept thought process. Because it should be assumed that someone, knowing that he would be used or put into practice such a novel, organized meetings so that he could become an organizer of cyclical gatherings. And he'd do it at least four times in one year or three years. He would regularly organize some, I don't know, celebrations that you don't organize, just to be able to block one day. as if the right gatherings of another party or other entity. Well, it's really very dwarf thinking, it can't be defended. But, as I say, this will probably no longer be the subject of discussion after accepting the amendment. Last unblocked shift. It is about the famous 100 m, about what you have questioned here. The question is why 100 m, not e.g. 200 m. Well, 'cause 200 meters is too far. Why not 20 meters? Well, because it's 20 meters long enough to throw a pavement cube, ladies and gentlemen. If we want two demonstrations, sorry, two assemblies can have visual and auditory contact, while at the same time not physically affecting each other, so that there is no struggle, fights, hacks, this distance is optimal. Incidentally, it was accepted by the government, that is, professionals, those who know the security of such manifestations. This distance is optimal. And she doesn't really change anything in that article. She's just a detail. She doesn't leave interpretation issues to the police. Because with the current wording, it would be theoretically possible to spread out the counter-demonstrations on which the state, this side of the room, so depends on a distance of half a kilometer, if the police had said so. And just about 100 meters, no less, no more. And that is also the implementation of the Constitution. Restrictions on the issue of assembly may include a law, not an executive act of the police, not enforcement actions of strict, actual sense. I paid attention to this word "law." So much for... I think that the 100 meters mentioned in this way defend themselves as if they were self-defense. So much for this issue, I'd call it disengaged articles. As for the main core of this law, namely the gatherings organized cyclically... It's basic, it's basic. I asked the question, I don't remember who anymore, and I didn't get a clear answer. But these conventions can be organized by anyone. Anyone who will comply with the bill. There's no discrimination here. It can be said that whoever organizes cyclical gatherings is in some way privileged, but it is not quite so, in a moment I will try to explain it. In relation to such an ordinary assembly organizer. But also, as I say, not quite, because this procedure is completely different. It's not a commune, it's a voivode. And the voivode gives its consent. In the case of a municipality and a single assembly, we only inform the municipality. And please note that in the case of cyclical gatherings the voivode gives consent, may give it, may not give it. This is, paradoxically, a more difficult process. So a few actors will be able to aspire to organize cyclical gatherings, but everyone has the right to do so. Perhaps some individuals had previously been involved in such conventions Maybe not like this, but I'd say they're under the designation of these conventions. For 3 years or for a year, they will now have some kind of bonus because they participate in public life and continue to demonstrate their attitude. That is, you can say, the idea of the assembly to publicly show their attitude, their views. They did it effectively, systematically for 3 years, so why don't they do it for the next 3 years. Another point raised is why this issue is addressed not by the municipality, but by the voivode. Ladies and gentlemen, the voivode is already in this bill. As the Minister said here, the voivode is in the act on crisis management. But the voivode is also indirectly in the bill, namely, responsible for gatherings at memorial sites. In the case of gatherings at memorial sites, the report shall be accepted by the voivode. So he's already in this bill. And it was you who introduced it, Platform, in the 2015 bill. Because that's when the bill was amended, so to speak, places of memory. And then such privilege was given to the voivodeship. Incidentally, in the previous law of 1990, the voivode was also an appeal body. So he didn't come out of nowhere. He is there because there is a different procedure, sharper, just more difficult to pass, but at the same time giving in return to entities that have spoken publicly about a particular subject, some authority in relation to... But not to other entities in general, but to entities that organize individual demonstrations. And finally, the last line. Unfortunately, both in the opinion of the Supreme Court and in the voices which the State raises here, there is often a question that may not be so marginal as one which should be on the sidelines, namely, counter-manufacturing. You say that the most important thing is not to manifest your views, but to deal with your views, let's call it an opponent, whether it's political or social or whatever. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's also in your bill, you guys passed it a year ago in your convention bill. Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 states that the assembly is a group of people in an open space, accessible to unnamed persons in a specific place in order to hold a joint meeting, and here you have not said anything about the meeting. or for the purpose of expressing a common position on public matters. You were talking about your position. This is above all the purpose of the assembly. If this position is against one, yes, it can also be expressed. That's what the mouth says. 2 of this article, concerning the spontaneous assembly. We respond to the publicly demonstrated opinion of another party, with which we disagree. But we're not reacting so much that we're just physically pacifying this web page, because you're probably going to do that if you don't agree to those 100 meters. Perhaps that's what this is all about. [[That's it, that's it.]] This isn't about physical pacification, this isn't about screaming the other side to get rid of her physically. Ladies and gentlemen, will two demonstrations within 100 m be unnoticeable to the media? After all, it is mainly the media that report these demonstrations. If one group is demonstrating, and the other at a distance of 100 m says otherwise, then the media of this Aren't they going to report? Unless they don't want to, because if they're objective, they'll definitely show it. I think that's the kind of political discussion we're after. You do not mean to move a discussion from some electronic media, where they really talk to each other in such a way that neither the other, nor you, nor you can understand, without arguments, arguments are generally arguments ad hominem, and in fact they are not presented with their own views. The point is to beat up the opponent, and the point is to physically add, as I understand it, to make these two demonstrations really clash with each other. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] If this is your idea, then really vote against this bill and let's drop it all off not on politicians, but on the police, let it be her responsibility. And then you're gonna be billing the police for why they didn't separate these demonstrations. And that's because that's what you said, rejecting these amendments, rejecting this bill. Again. In my opinion, this bill doesn't pose any threat. We'll be able to test it in action. I'd like to see the faces of those who are so fathomable. I don't know what to call it, opinions, actually deziderates sent us here, who say that this is currently the greatest threat to freedom in Poland. No, it's just not true. I'm finishing up because I can see I'm bored, and some people are yawning. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u378	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I refer to this law, I would like to return to a few speeches, because here today several people have referred to my speech at the committee meeting yesterday. I'd like to say that I didn't offend Senator Rulevski at all. I merely pointed out that it is shameful that Senator Rulewski compares the current situation, this government elected in democratic elections to that government from the time of martial law, which was not the Polish government, was not from the Polish government. So I'm very surprised, and I regret it. I've been getting a lot of e-mails and a lot of calls from people you disappoint Senator Rulewski since yesterday. I'll say it's me, too. Because in my time I was a fan of Mr. Rulewski, my friends too, and these friends of mine are asking when Mr. Rulewski was real, then or today. I'll be honest with you, I preferred Mr. Rulewski over there, not this one today. I think Mr. Rulewski's lost his way now. And I say to Mr. Rulewski really from the heart that he still has a chance to convert and be that, otherwise he will destroy everything he has achieved in his life because he has gone astray. And now for the bill. I would like to say to my colleagues sitting here, for my part, that this discussion in this direction is absolutely pointless. I would ask you, when I'm done speaking, not to speak at all. 'Cause you guys aren't... They know exactly that we're right. They know that. I just... I, gentlemen, sympathize with you. How can you look yourself in the mirror in the morning? They say you belong to the elite of the nation, because there are only 100 senators, and you say such absurd things! I know you have a job to be a total opposition, but you're also just intelligent, intelligent, educated people. Well, you can't make yourself aware that you guys are... like you're living in an illusion world. Every law, whatever law the government of Law and Justice is now introducing, is bad for you. When there was a 500+ study, you screamed that 500+ would ruin the economy. And when that 500+ came in, you're yelling that you have to give everyone the first child because the government tricked them. You're saying she's evil about every bill. That one too. And yet you know very well that this is not about any democracy, but you are practicing Goebbels propaganda, such that 100 times the lie is repeated, people will believe. Because if someone were to listen to it and they didn't know what it was about, then they thought the government was actually doing democracy, freedom of assembly... And that is absolutely not true. On the same day, there could be 100 demonstrations. It's just about separating them, it's about not being able to be at the same time and in the same place that they don't cross. So around every corner, there could be another demonstration behind every street. Nobody's defending you. But you say you want eye contact and voice contact. So I say, take the megaphones. And if you have poor eyesight, but you want eye contact, take binoculars with you then you'll have eye contact. You guys are... I'll tell you what you mean. You know, it's been a year, and you guys haven't come to terms with the fact that you've lost your power. And you know that every next year of the rule of law and justice is irretrievably preventing you from winning in the next election. And you know you don't have time for three years from now. You will disappear from the political stage. And you know what the only way out is for you. You guys thought the only way to get people out into the street was to save them. You're trying to force the government down. And on 13 December you call together all retired militiamen and all the ointments of rinses after the Polish People's Republic. You will go with them, even with those against whom you have been ♪ with us ♪ In a state of war, only to regain power. You are such cynics that there is no holiness for you. Poland is our mother, but you don't understand. You'd be ready to pull your mother's pillow out of her head just to get any benefit. That's who you are. Hidden. It's too bad to talk to you guys at all. And you know you're wrong. I'm asking you, fellas, don't talk to them. They're aware of it, they're kind of... The discussion with them is pointless, and I'm going to say it's economically uneconomical. It's a waste of time. And your time will pass. Shame on you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u380	I invite you to discuss Senator Wczyła... [[Mr. Marshal!]] Yes, hello? [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to talk about...]] [[Microphone.]] [[But I turned it on.]] [[It is now. Oh, that's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u381	Mr Marshal, I would like to make a formal request to delete some of the words spoken by the Member State The Fascist methods and other things... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: About Goebbels...]] ...goebbels... Whatever you call it. We are not here at the rally which Mr. Bonkowski... [[Excuse me, but I'd like to say goodbye to the ombudsman. Thank you, Minister, for coming. I'm sorry.]] When the spokesperson heard these wonderful things, he had to leave. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'd like to... [[His conscience moved him.]] Yeah, conscience. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Marshal. It's a formal conclusion. In order to remove those passages which are unacceptable in a debate in any European country, those words about Goebbels, Fascists and other such things, from the minutes and to address the Member State... [[It hurts.]] ...that he shouldn't use the language he uses every day in his private conversations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u382	I take this as an appeal because it is not formally a proposal. This is not a formal conclusion from the point of view of... Here, thank you for your suggestion to the legislator. Mr. Senator... Excuse me? [[I want to sign up.]] Oh, of course. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator Czerwiński sought in Senator Dowhan's statement the relationship between the bill we are proceeding with and the content of his speech. I think that's a little bit of a problem with how to find a connection between this bill and Mr B Member State's statement about a pillow pulled from under your mother's head, about the 500+ program and other sensations. I ignore all those words that are simply uncultural, unworthy of a senator, offensive. I'm going back to the bill. When I listened to the discussions today, I came to the conclusion that Poland, under the PiS rule, is consistently moving towards a total state. The total state is different from the democratic state... [[Mr. Bonkowski spoke badly, and you speak well.]] ...that he doesn't leave... [[The opposition.]] I'm supposed to stop and ask you... [[Gentlemen Senators, I have not interrupted the previous speaker, please do not interrupt the senator.]] Thank you very much. The total state is different from the democratic state, that it leaves no margin for activity and social activity unrelated to public authority. We are at the stage of rubble from our public life another manifestation of this activity: the public authority has already taken over part of media power in a heartless way, consistently dismantles the constitutional principle of subsidiarity, reducing the activity of local authorities, ignoring the voice of other professional communities and groups. Lawyers, teachers, farmers And by abusing the parliamentary procedure for the process of law-making, it limits the possibility for representatives of different backgrounds to participate in the creation of law, including the law of systemic importance. Now is the time for assemblies, which by their very nature are part of direct democracy. This is another law of political importance, which is introduced as a parliamentary project rather than as a government one. It may be worth recalling here why democracy is a better political system than other systems. This is because the essence of social life in democracy is the right to have many rights, many priorities, many interests, and everyone has equal rights to demonstrate his or her rights, interests and priorities. There's no reason for these demonstrations to be isolated from each other. On the contrary, it is a way of creating democratic forms of functioning alongside communities with different priorities. Mr. Senator Czerwiński, of course not everyone who wants to demonstrate must be interested in what views someone else has, but everyone must consider that another group of people will stand next to him and present their own views, and he must face this confrontation. We need to teach society how to operate in such a way that, so to speak, differences of opinion so that it is safe. Where democracy is extinguished, the right to be right is only the strongest one to enforce it sooner or later. In the past, such rations have been enforced by wars, prisons, or ZOMO troops. The Government of Law and Justice does not refer to such methods yet, although creating the Territorial Defence Army, called the Macierewicz army... That's, among other things. The PiS senators did not dare to accept the amendment which was intended to ensure that these troops would not be used against the Poles. I wonder why. So far, the PiS government. The government is behind the draft amendment of the Assembly Act using the monopoly of legislative power, taking away from Poles an important tool for the implementation of human rights and democracy, i.e. equal rights to organize assemblies, demonstrations and other forms of presentation of their rights. This is what the hierarchy of those who have priority in the organization of the assembly is designed to serve as the leader of this hierarchy of public authorities. In fact, this is not much different from the forceful restriction of democratic rights, but worse than that. You don't know what you're reaching for these tools for. During the debate on the project I heard that project initiators do not know how many cases were reported in Poland, that demonstrations Even if there were a few at one point They didn't fit in the same place at the same time. Nor did they know of the possibility that the simultaneous assembly would endanger the security of demonstrators. They weren't dealing with the problem at all. According to the Minister of Government, 17 cases of this kind have been reported. Ladies and gentlemen, High Senate, 17 such cases per 6,000 assemblies It's less than 0.3%. And because of this margin of events, the law is tightening up, calling protests on about 200 associations, NGOs and practically the entire legal world, because they all regard this law as harmful, unconstitutional and simply unnecessary. It can therefore be presumed that the dangers that are presented as justification for the bill are imaginary threats on the scale of the non-justifying implementation of a law that could pose a threat to freedom and democracy. Unless there is a hidden evil will of the ruling party, whose suspicion was often claimed by the Senator rapporteur, Mr Arkadiusz Grabowski. This law stems from fear of increasingly manifesting their dissatisfaction with Poles. I think that the experience of the last few months justifies the suspicion that the authorities will want to manipulate the conventions and demonstrations in their own interests. For these reasons, I call for you to withdraw from the adoption of another anti-democratic law and for the ruling party to take another, but a very big step towards building a total state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u384	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u385	Dear Senators! I was hoping that the discussion on this law was moving slowly towards the end, the more that my colleagues from the PiS presented, with the lips of Senator Martynowski, the information that, after reflection, certain provisions of this law could be changed. Those changes in records that we've been talking about meet our expectations. I therefore hoped that there would be a chance that these amendments would gain both sides' support. Unfortunately, the further discussion that took place did not indicate that everything that I would like to change in this law would be changed. Namely, one of my proposals is for mouths. Article 1 1 point 5, where reference is made to the 3-year period, which determines the possibility to apply for the cyclicality of the assembly, which, in my view, is an unequal treatment of the operators. Because we divide the subjects into those who had been organizing conventions for three years or more, and those who did not have such conventions would therefore not be able to bring such conventions. That is why I would like to make the appropriate amendments. But one of my applications made at the committee meeting, and one that you also filed with Senator Florek, is a motion to reject this bill. I very much liked the voice of Senator Oremski, who pointed out these elements in the bill, which could be refined, so that the law could be a common work of ours. But what other senators have said is that it's not about finding something together, it's about how young people say it should be on top. And that was also what Senator BMS was going to say. You know, Mr. Senator, I am very sorry that this is how you speak to Parliament's representatives, in a language that is not right for us. Yesterday, sitting next to you at the committee meeting, I felt like we could talk calmly and normally. Today it's my impression that's gone, and I'm actually disgusted. That's all I wanted to talk to you about. And maybe in a little ironic way, I'll refer to those provisions of the law that relate to the distance between two opposing groups of demonstrators, 100 m. I was wondering where it came from. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I've looked through world records in the disc, javelin, hammer. It turned out that none of the record players had reached a distance of 100 m. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is one Member in the Civic Platform ranks who is a record player in the hammer throw. I mean, even he couldn't hurt here. To conclude with this accent, I would like to make amendments. And I hope that if this bill is not rejected, it will at least be corrected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u386	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs! Dear participants of this debate, who listen to it online! I would like to draw attention to a few aspects of this bill. Firstly, I do not really understand where this came from, let us call it hysteria, which has accompanied the work on this project from the beginning, especially since this project, which I showed in a question to the Minister, will increase the scope for exercising the constitutional right to freedom of assembly in comparison with the current solutions. And I showed this in an example, for example, of such a manifestation or assembly, which is cyclical and which is called the Schuman Parade. I will remind you that it has been taking place every year in Warsaw for many years, or actually Krakowskie Przedmieście, through a colourful corrode of supporters of greater integration of Poland with the European Union and in general greater integration of the European Union itself. And now let's imagine that someone will get up early, as the Minister said, and using the current legal solutions will submit 6 or 7 proposals, because on the relevant sections of Krakowskie Przedmieście wants to make its manifestation. And they will be opponents of Poland's integration with the European Union or Eurosceptics, or I do not know who else, e.g. Canary breeders who will simply want to manifest their rights and their point of view. And in this situation, this Schuman Parade could not take place on this designed route, as it is already done every year, for a very simple reason. Because other applications would have been made and other demonstrations would have taken place there. What would be the answer to such a question? That is, are we not restricting the right of supporters of greater integration with the European Union through these solutions? Isn't it because they couldn't have their manifestation as planned and perhaps within the chosen period, exactly as they planned? Turning the question around, let's ask: are we obstructing this current solution, e.g. the opponents of integration with the European Union, the Eurosceptics or those canaries breeders, on the same day and in a similar area? Of course we don't. They can do this, except that the ordering provision determines the distance between the two manifestations. So building here such a belief that there is a restriction of civil liberties, that here we have some No, in quotes The state of emergency... Using this whole phraseology is simply amazing. I would like to remind you that none other than Bronisław Komorowski, President of the Republic of Poland, after the Independence March of 11 November 2011 submitted a draft act on the assemblies, which then aroused widespread criticism. He suggested, among other things, that the request for a demonstration must be signed by a minimum of 15 people. He suggested, among other things, that the faces of the protesters should not be covered, which happened with widespread outrage, for example. Trade union members protested, they're their employers. they would see specific people, which could expose them in the future to the consequences of losing their jobs or some other form of harassment. This led to widespread disapproval. The records originally proposed by President Komorowski actually limited the constitutional right to assembly. Not much, the Constitutional Tribunal even challenged several points in this categorized version. I remind you of this story, especially parliamentarians, senators in our House, from the Civic Platform, who are showing some strangely short memory and are now trying to create a climate of danger, a climate of anxiety, a climate of violation of civil rights, a threat of one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the constitution of the right to assembly. I am very pleased that Senator Marek Martynowski has tabled two amendments. Let me remind you, in principle, that the deletion of the article. 2b, which concerned a certain preference Let's call it that. For public administration or churches and religious unions, it is justified for a simple reason: under the current law, both public administration and churches and religious unions are excluded from the act. Therefore, the provisions contained in this Act do not apply e.g. to the procession, some religious celebrations or public holidays organized by the public administration. Of course, there are agreements with the relevant services in a given municipality or order services, of course these arrangements are, of course, an obligation incumbent on the organiser, but there is no regime of this law. It is therefore appropriate to delete this article. Perhaps in the future I would like to stress: perhaps in the future If necessary, it will be necessary to further clarify how this is to be done. Introduction of vacathio legis. Well, the Minister clearly said that vacathio legis could be immediate, i.e. may the bill enter... It is also a vacathio legis, only it is the most radical version of vacathio legis. Normally it is 14 days, hence the proposal of Senator Martynowski seems good. This will enable the authorities to make decisions on this matter. So whether the mayors or the presidents or the voivode in case of repeated manifestations in some cycle They will have time to read its rules in detail. Finally, the issue that was raised in the public debate. The point is that the decisions of the authorising or refusing authorities are irrevocable. That is not the case. It is in the bill so written that it is the final decision, but it is not valid. If a party, or applicant, refers to an administrative court, it shall normally be subject to a judicial procedure. That's what I'd call a manipulation. The suggestion that the Authority's decision is final and cannot be touched is not in line with reality. Bottom line, High Izbo, I think it's a good bill. And I hope that this law, as I said at the beginning, will serve well to increase democracy and freedom of speech in Poland, contrary to what those who call for a break, as we hear it, on December 13th - constitutional order in Poland and call for disobedience of democratically elected power. Such action in my deep conviction is not in the constitutional order and principles of the democratic rule of law. But, as you can see, those who say they're Democrats don't have to be democrats at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u388	Please take the floor of Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have tried to listen carefully to the whole debate, including the questions addressed to the Senators of the rapporteurs and to the representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. But I also listen to everything that's going on in public space about this bill. And I come to the conclusion that in the course of this debate or public debate, slowly, but very effectively, certain stereotypes which have begun to live their own lives and which are very different from the spirit of the law, or at least from the intentions of legislators, applicants. I can give you two examples. It's said, for example. privileged that the State and public authorities will be privileged in the organisation of demonstrations and demonstrations. Meanwhile, the draft of the novel clearly speaks of meetings on national and national holidays, which can also be organised, as well as so far, by other environments. In addition to public authorities This includes non-governmental organisations whose rights the opposition is so loudly calling for today. It's also called This has also been strongly embedded in public awareness. It has the privileged status of the Catholic Church. However, the law speaks very clearly about the activities of churches and other religious associations, thus, of course, covering all churches and religious associations regardless of their nationality. The opposition has also repeatedly used the argument that the European Union's constitution and legal standards were being violated in this debate today, even saying that the draft was breaking human rights. Well, in my opinion, it's exactly the opposite. Because many times, as history has shown in recent years, during various manifestations and at the same time counter-manifestations, when there was an attack and a hack, over which the police were unable to control, there was a violation of human rights, even at a time when personal immunity was violated and violence was committed against one another. On several occasions, when the rapporteurs, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ombudsman, asked questions to the senators, it was absurd, in my opinion, to say when, among other things, they said this. on violations of civil rights, violations of the fundamentals of the rule of law They're quotes. Social exclusion and loss of confidence in the state. Some of the terms used even had innuendo marks, e.g. Senator Augustine's words, who said that the bill speaks a lot about its authors, their intentions and what kind of people they are at all. It seems that you are slowly running out of verbal and conceptual arsenal, and that the same verbal schemes are used to argue and evaluate each subsequent legislative initiative, provided that it is reported by the Government or Members of Law and Justice. This leads to the fact that these arguments cease to be arguments, become more and more pervasive slogans, and their value simply devalues itself. The priority of the legislative authority is to take care of the well-being of citizens. This objective should be served by a law which, on the one hand, in this particular case, should ensure the security of those taking part in meetings of citizens and, on the other hand, should be designed so as not to violate constitutional and European standards. But defending the law as such is not the aim of parliamentarians' actions in themselves, and you have often put it this way. This is, in my opinion, a classic reversal of the hierarchy of civil society's needs. Well, will the guarantee of civil rights be made by the appropriate services to ensure that the citizen in a peaceful assembly collids with the counter-manifesting of the citizen And that's what happened in the past. And he suffered a personal immunity violation as a result of this collision? To sum up, the law is only and until it is an instrument for guaranteeing these rights, but it is not a dogma, an objective or an entity of action. But while we are talking about law-making, please answer the question of what law effectively guarantees civil liberties for which you are so loudly in favour. The Ombudsman, referring to the draft law, spoke, among others. for the solution that the distance of these cults is already 100 m each established by the police and not by the law. Is it really a better solution to make an arbitrary decision by the police chief and hand it over to the law enforcement services, not to write it down in a higher-ranking act? I dedicate this thought to all those who have used spells of the type in this room, we make the easy way to create a police state and other similar ones. It is also an important issue that concerns the safety and health protection of citizens. This is, of course, a fundamental objective, but it is also important that costs are related to the prevention and elimination of the effects of material losses incurred as a result of riots which may be triggered during manifestation and counter-manifestation. During his speech, the Minister admitted that the very security of such conventions as on 11 November at the Independence Day is counted on more than 20 million PLN. I just want to remind you that these are measures that come from public tributes and have to be respected. Removing damage and material effects will multiply these amounts, as the Minister also admitted during the debate. Therefore, the legal framework should also take account of these considerations. The rule of law cannot create and provoke situations where a public penny simply will not be respected. And finally, one more thing. Many times in this House, it has also been said that the current government and the parliamentary majority of Law and Justice will not rule forever. And that, of course, is truism. This will probably happen someday, but further announcements, which also fell here, that this situation could turn away, and this law could be used against the current power or against the current rulers, already smells like rematching. It's a proof of that. Unfortunately, about the difference in our intentions, because we want to create a law so that laws serve and protect citizens, we do not want to create any law in such a way as to promote the pacification of assembly and the stranglement of civil liberties, and other particular interests of some political formation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u390	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Silence. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry! I would like to say one thing at the outset, namely what I often say, that before we begin to speak, especially in a general way, and to criticise in such a way that certain legal solutions are contrary to the principle of a democratic rule of law or are not, it is not only worth reading the text of a law which is proposed, not only to rely on authorities which often speak in a general way, but to reach out to the essence of those texts with which the law is allegedly contradictory. And it was very well done by Senator Czerwiński, analyzing the art. 57 of the constitution, in which, clearly after the first passus, pointing to freedom of participation in assemblies and the organisation of assemblies, is the next passus, saying that this freedom can only be restricted by the law. And this is a very important element, because, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are regulating these matters in the bill today is the execution of what is the result of the constitution, not leaving it to the police to decide when it is possible for the state to intervene in the freedom to exercise the law, which is the freedom of assembly. If we left this to the police, we could be accused of living in a police state, because where it is police duty to decide what the law is, when it is to be implemented, within what limits, the authorities actually delegate their powers, even their obligations under the Constitution to the police. And then you can actually face such an accusation that we live in a police state, since this is the case. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that those who are so eager to refer to acts of international law, especially the European Convention on Human Rights, may not have read the article correctly. 11 of the Convention, which expressly provides that the right to peaceful assembly may be subject only to restrictions which determine the right And here the interpretation is that it must be regulated in the law, i.e. not left to the police, but specified in the law . and which are necessary in a democratic society because of: the interests of state or public security, the protection of order, the prevention of crime, the protection of health and morality or the protection of the rights and freedoms of others. And these are the conditions in our regulation that we foresee. And I would like to stress that the European Court of Human Rights also points out that the right to gather is also the right to gather in a peaceful and secure manner, i.e. that the State has a duty, a positive duty, to ensure that those who demonstrate, do not suffer any harm, do not be attacked by those who counter-demonstrate. It is also the duty of the State to ensure that those who are counter-demonstrating can do so safely. It is therefore a duty of careful action by the State, because of course it is not an obligation to achieve the result, because sometimes there are situations that, despite the greatest efforts, there are various unforeseen events and sometimes even tragedies. It is this proposal, which is presented today as a legal solution that includes, among others, a legal solution. These issues, which are so highly criticised, concerning the distance of 100 m or issues relating to cyclical gatherings, are nothing more than a regulation aimed at fulfilling the state's positive obligation to give everyone the right to demonstrate and counter-demonstration and to ensure their safety in the course of participating in these events. And the European Court of Human Rights, contrary to what is said loudly here when referring to the article. 11 The European Convention on Human Rights leaves a large margin of freedom in the regulation of the right to exercise in a peaceful manner the right to free assembly, to the extent that it even allows the State to introduce an institution to gather. Fortunately, she is not with us, but I would stress this to indicate the relatively narrow limits to the protection of this law under the Article. 11 The European Convention on Human Rights, in order to bring to mind those who go too far in the exercise of the rights supposedly to be entitled to the freedom of assembly and who even refuse to grant you the right to ensure that these conventions are peaceful, for only such are protected. Well, it's also about not being affected by participation, whether in manifestation, or in counter-manufacturing. Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth remembering. And that is why, as long as yesterday I abstained from the vote, when there was a proposal to adopt this bill without amendments, because I saw some shortcomings, mainly related to this unfortunate article, which introduced the principle of retroactivity, but today, after you proposed the two amendments mentioned by Senator Martynowski, I am in favour of this law and I do not see those dangers which are perceived in the formulation of very critical views, even by various types of state institutions, including the Supreme Court, and which are allegedly derived from the article. 11 the European Convention on Human Rights without any specific decisions that could lead to such a proposal. Thus, I believe that the law at issue does not contain these threats, it is not an attempt on democracy, but it is implementing the State's obligation to ensure the security of participants in both demonstrations and counter-demonstrations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u392	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonkowski, I'd like you to have a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm only gonna be brief now. There were many words here today, even threats that there would be a report to Europe. It is not the first time the opposition would report to Europe. In the history of Poland we had many native traitors, informers, starting with Targowica. Poland was, Poland is and Poland will be, whether someone likes it or not. That's the story. I just want to say... Because I see the opposition... That's not the way it's been said here, because everyone's afraid to use those words. The opposition, you can say straight, consistently strives... He does not wait 3 years for elections, he seeks to raise civil war in Poland. But unfortunately, I have to tell you, there aren't enough of you. And even if you bring down the worst in December 13th, the nation will not back you and will not join you. Fortunately, the Polish nation woke up last year. He woke up and appreciated your 8-year rule. What volume was, like the president, Mr Kaczyński said that Poland is a condominium! How you were outraged! And your constitutional minister said that Poland is a theoretical being, that it is a pile of stones. I'm not gonna say the first part because I'm ashamed. The people just realized it, and they know it. And you can never be fooled again. And I warn you: if you do not stop, the nation can actually take literally the words of Marshal Piłsudski, that freedom is not achieved for two drops of blood and two cents. And indeed there could be a national tragedy. And the problem can be solved. And for you, this could end tragically. But in English and Christian, I will give you good advice: everyone can err, everyone has the right to reflect and to convert. And you have that chance, too. You're public figures, and you should publicly apologize for what you've been doing for the last eight years of your governments, your harlots... You can convert. Poles are merciful. And then you'll have a chance, once you're converted, to live in a public sphere, but if you go short, you're not gonna be a total opposition anymore, you're gonna be completely finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u394	Mr. Marshal Borowski. Welcome to the discussion. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: You've taken out your emotions.]] [[I'll skip the silence.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: And rightly so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In this debate, I saw two faces of Law and Justice. One... [[Just?]] Just two. [[Not so bad.]] Yeah, only two, because you, Mr. Senator, haven't heard from him. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But I'm talking now.]] Well, one face is the face of Senator Czerwiński, Senator Warzocha, Senator Cichoń, who argued. You can agree with them, disagree with them. I'll talk about it in a minute. And the second face, the Senator of the Member States, who showed above all some great pride and arrogance. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Now you're leaving.]] That kind of call, like the fact that your time has passed, I've heard it many times in history. More rulers, more leaders said such things to their political opponents, and as it ended, we all know. Because Senator Bonkowski called on you not to discuss it at all, I have such a modest proposal. And that's because I want things to work out so that you can ask the Senator of the Member State not to discuss it. I think it will be for the benefit of the Senate, and for the debate, and for the Law and Justice as well. So much for this unfortunate statement by the Senator of the Member State. And as for the substance... Yes: first of all, part of the problem, I understand, will be removed, because the amendment, or actually 2 amendments, will be adopted, finally reported by Senator Martynowski. And, as the famous proverb says, Martynowski locuta, causa finita, so I'm taking it off. Right? I'm not gonna take care of those rules anymore. Let's just leave them alone. What's left of this bill? cyclical gatherings remain and this distance of 100 m remains. [[The voice from the hall: But the senator...]] That's all, actually. Therefore, You have to ask yourself why changes are made to the Assembly Act at all if there is no serious reason to do so. Because the right to assembly, free assembly, this is a fundamental right in a democratic state. It's about as much a law as a ban on preventive censorship. Right? There is a law, this law regulates it. Yes, if there are situations of reprehensible, harmful situations, then, of course, the appropriate authority or Members are taking the initiative, and this is deeply justified and changes need to be made. Well, excuse me, but really in this situation we have in Poland, I really do not know why these changes are moving. After all, the provision concerning two demonstrations, and by the second demonstration one must also be understood as a picket which has, I don't know, 15, 30, 50 people... It's in the bill today, isn't it? They say that if two demonstrations at the same time and in the same place want to be convened, and Okay, here's the This threatens the lives, health of citizens or significant losses in property, then decides the order of applications. And that's all that's left. It's not like it's changing. If it's contested because it's not working well, it's fine, but no, it stays. Only the introductory phrase, which states that at the same place and time, in particular at a distance of up to 100 m, is inserted. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the justification for this? I really don't know. I have reached into the bill made by the Members, I have reached the justification of this law, and there is not a word about a distance of 100 m, not a word. There's a justification for cyclical gatherings, and I'll get right to it, but there's not a word about 100 m. It is not known why this was introduced. Of course, I can guess why, but I'm not here to discuss it. I mean, this thing should be clearly laid out. We were dealing with reprehensible, harmful situations, which resulted from the fact that there were pickets near the demonstration going through, there were some fatal consequences, etc., but nothing like that happened. Therefore, referring to examples of great demonstrations, which must be at some distance from each other... of course it costs 20 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it will still be expensive. Next year there will be a few demonstrations on 11 November and again they will have to be secured. So that's not really what this is about. Where'd you get those 100 yards? I really don't know. Senator Czerwiński tried to justify it, he was talking about throwing in a tabloid. Let's just say Senator Rotnicka explained it already. How do I put it? If we could find one to throw in that tabloid, he'd be in the staff immediately. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's unnecessary, it's unnecessary. The previous provision was completely sufficient. Now I'm going to go to these cyclical gatherings. I think there's a point to it, Senator Jackowski spoke about it. Okay, well, if anybody thinks about it, for example. on the New World to hold an anti-European demonstration always on the day when the Schuman Parade is organized? So I see a point in that, yes, but, first of all, I don't know why the voivode does it. The demonstration is done by the communes, so this should normally be reported to the president, the mayor, the mayor. That's one thing. And, of course, with judicial supervision. If it turns out that someone is right, because they are constantly organizing, and here is the mayor, the mayor, etc. from another political option does not accept this as a cyclical demonstration, it must be judicial supervision and the matter is settled. And the other thing. If it's a voivode, it has to be, it has to be... Let us remember that such a decision of the voivode does not have to be made, let us say, much earlier, long before the demonstration, she can be taken without a small one at the last moment, seven days before... [[5.]] Yeah, five? [[At least five.]] Okay, let's not argue, just a few days before, which is the moment at which. another demonstration was reported, non-cyclical, in the same place. When he makes that decision, he really makes a political decision, that is to say, he makes it impossible to organize that demonstration. If so, there must be judicial oversight, and he's not here. It's very blurry. Here some refer to another law, etc. I've studied the subject. There must be a reference to this article of the Assembly Act, that is, Art. 16, which... [[It's, it's, it's...]] [[He's here now, Mr. Marshal.]] Look, I talked to the legislators, and I didn't notice. I'm talking about a replacement, because that's the problem. Right? The governor considers something cyclical, then asks the mayor, the president, the uncle to stop the second demonstration. The mayor doesn't do it, and then the voivode gives a replacement order. This replacement order must be subject to judicial review, and that does not follow from the law. That is why I am proposing a very simple amendment. Namely, where there is a replacement order, it is an article. Point 5 of Article 1 26b in the mouth. The following second sentence shall be added: 16 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 16 talk not only about control, but also about time, 24 hours, immediately, etc. Let us remember that this may be about the situation just before the demonstration. That's why they were introduced. Therefore, I think that if this were introduced, it would be a fuse against such political exploitation of the right to establish a cyclical demonstration. About the idea itself I don't have any objections. I believe that this should be introduced. And, by the way, it would be healthier if the issue of these cyclical demonstrations were described in this law in such a way that, at a certain time after the entry into force of this law, all those who have organised cyclical demonstrations so far, report it to the respective voivodeships. The point is to close this topic so it's not like in three, four, five years, there's gonna be more applications for a cyclical demonstration. Today we have these demonstrations, and we know which are demonstrations. They should be, and the rest... We should not lead to the fact that, to the extreme, all important places, mainly in Warsaw, will be occupied by cyclical demonstrations. Then no other demonstration can take place. Let us speak in an open language. We have Smolensk monthlys in Kraków Przedmieście, we have the National Independence March. Well, they're as far away from me as possible, but the march is organized. And it's cyclical. Come on, we've got the Schuman Parade, we've got... Maybe we'll find something else. And on a certain date, all these organizers come forward, the voivodeships approve it, and if they don't want it, we have a court. And no more cyclicality. But, like I said, by the way. I do not make such an amendment, but judicial review seems absolutely necessary to me. Senator Czerwiński, trying to justify that there were cases of disturbance of the assemblies, gave an example of this happeninger, who apparently tried to disrupt the procession of God's Body. Yeah, but this isn't another demonstration that interferes with this first demonstration. It's a single crazy guy who runs naked and who's being taken care of by the police. That's it. I don't know if he was normal... I don't know. Senator Czerwiński also spoke about this case in Poznań. Well, it's more complex than that. You realize that. In response to the decision of Antoni Macierewicz, Minister Macierewicz, that as is the military orchestra and as is the army, there must be also a Smoleński appeal. Well, that's what caused the political conflict. If it wasn't, that wouldn't be the problem, of course. And so it's just a loop and there's no good way out of it. I hope these corrections... I already told you about Senator Martynowski's amendments. And as far as mine is concerned, I hope it will be accepted, because she, so to speak, very dismisses the objections. And just for the record... Mr. Senator Czerwiński and other gentlemen, colleagues from the PiS, you justified your position here and said that there was nothing to be afraid of, because this is because it's... Okay, but then please answer me the question of why the first reading of this project took place on 30 November, there is a report on 30 November, and this was adopted on 1 November... [[December 1st.]] December 1st, I'm sorry. If it wasn't for the fact that we had a reloaded session last week, we'd still be discussing it last week, and that's what we're discussing today. If there are so many reservations, if the Supreme Court, all NGOs, the European Commissioner, etc... Maybe they're all wrong, but if they are, then we have to explain it, put it out. All these arguments should be given at meetings, at a public hearing. The pace that you've adopted has just led us to suspect that it's not about security, it's about some kind of manipulation. If this is the case with this kind of law, don't be surprised... [[Fifteen minutes.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. ...that the widely understood opposition simply will not have confidence in such acts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u396	I was hoping that Mr. Marshal would put this amendment on my hands. [[And I'm gonna put this together, right?]] But... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to point out that the performance lasted 15 minutes. [[Yes.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Waldemar Slugocki, Senator Czesław Ryszka, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Senator Robert Mątkow presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Marshal Anna Sztark, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Marshal Marek Borowski. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Sebastian Chwalek: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held today at 10:15 p.m. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u397	Message. [[The game's gonna be here.]] The joint meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Assembly Law will take place today, 40 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u398	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 10:15 p.m. [[The committee meeting's at 8:30?]] [[So the committee meeting's at 8:30.]] [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 47 to 22 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u399	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] We return to the examination of item twenty-eighth of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 356 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 53 votes against, 23 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. We are returning to the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Assembly. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions held a meeting at the end of the session... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] ...and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 355 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u400	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. At the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration held at the end of the meeting, 19 amendments tabled during the Senate debate were discussed. The joint committees shall present the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate shall accept the proposals set out in points 1 and 19 of Section III. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u401	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Marek Borowski and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. In addition, Senator Piotr Florek was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. Would any of you like to speak? No... [[Please accept our amendments.]] But say yes or no? [[Yeah, yeah.]] The senator's asking for what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u402	I'm asking you to accept our amendments because they're really very good. After these amendments have been adopted, we are able to accept the draft... [[Uh-huh.]] Yes. Consider him his own, too. [[It's a vote now... we'll see in the first vote.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u403	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the request for... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[One more vote, Mr. Marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken the vote. It was the right time, the time to speak, I've already started reading the procedure. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to concentrate. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the request of minorities of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 28 votes against, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 83]] In the face of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 2 for, 83 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 84]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection of the law and of the proposal for adoption of the law without amendments, we shall proceed to vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 deletes the prohibition to hold meetings at the place and at the time when meetings organised by public authorities and assemblies are held in the framework of the activities of churches and other religious associations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 votes against, one abstention, no one opposed this amendment. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 1 was accepted. Amendment 2 complements the provision on the scope of information to be provided by the organiser of the assembly in the notice of intention to organise the assembly, for indication of the alternative place and time of the meeting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 28 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendment 3 aims to remove from the Act a provision introducing an additional condition for keeping at least 100 m of distance between assemblies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 29 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 87]] Amendments 4 and 13 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 15. Adoption of these amendments and non-adoption of Amendment 3 will delete the last sentence of Article. 1 in point 2 of the first paragraph 1 act. Amendments 4 and 13 aim to eliminate cyclical assembly provisions from the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 28 votes against, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 88]] Amendments 4 and 13 were rejected. Amendments 5, 10 and 14 should be voted together. They aim to eliminate from the law the obligation of the municipality authority to issue a decision prohibiting a previously notified meeting where the voivode gives its consent to the holding at the same place and time of the cyclical meeting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 28 votes against, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 89]] Amendments 5, 10 and 14 were rejected. Amendment 6 seeks to eliminate the possibility of organising a cyclical meeting on national holidays. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 29 for, 57 against. [[Voting No 90]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 aims to ensure that cyclical assemblies can be approved by the organisers of the assembly, regardless of whether they have already been held in the last 3 years and whether they are aimed in particular at celebrating major events. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Fourty-four senators voted, 29 for, 55 against, one abstention... [[Voting No 91]] [[Voice from the room: No, no one stopped.]] Amendment 7 was rejected. Amendments 8 and 9 should be voted together. They aim to extend the time limit in the procedure for consent to the organisation of cyclical assemblies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 28 votes against, 56 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 92]] Amendments 8 and 9 were rejected. Amendment 11 aims to indicate an appeal procedure against the alternative order issued by the voivode. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 11 was rejected. Amendment 12 is intended to refer to a provision which, in the event of doubt, will determine the order in which applications for authorisation to regular meetings are submitted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 12 was rejected. Amendment 15 aims to indicate that the new provisions of the law setting out the obligation of the municipality to adopt a decision prohibiting a notified assembly before the entry into force of the law, in the event that the cyclical assembly is approved by the voivode to take place at the same place and time, will not apply to the assemblies notified before the entry into force of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 15 was rejected. Amendment 16 introduces a 12-month period of vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 16 was rejected. Amendment 17 introduces a 3-month period of vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 97]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 18 introduces a 30-day period of vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 18 was rejected. Amendment 19 introduces a 14-day period of vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 19 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 84 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 27 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 100]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Assembly Law. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the order of the 30th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would remind you that the next Senate meeting will take place on 13, 14, 15 and 16 December 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Do any of you senators want... You're welcome, Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u404	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is a statement addressed to Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, Minister of Justice. I would like to ask the Minister to take a position on Mrs Katarzyna G., who is in Ireland, where three European arrest warrants have been issued. These orders were issued by the District Court Warsaw-Prague in Warsaw, the District Court in Siedlce and the District Court in Szczecin. According to the knowledge acquired by the interested person, 3 proceedings are conducted against her in the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Szczecin, in Minsk Mazowiecki and in the District Public Prosecutor's Office Warsaw Prague-North in Warsaw The amount of potential damage alleged shall not exceed PLN 3 000. There is currently a proceeding in Ireland. In connection with the execution of the European arrest warrant, Mrs Katarzyna G. bets on every call from the court there, and at the request of the Polish law enforcement authorities, she indicated the address of her residence in Ireland. Her attitude demonstrates her willingness to cooperate in order to clarify the matter. Comparing the damage of a total of less than PLN 3 000 to the perspective of the high costs of extradition, exceeding even several times the amount of damage, the question should be asked: does the situation not conflict with procedural economics? It is extremely important that Mrs Katarzyna G. has children under the control of whom she has sole custody. The execution of the European Arrest Warrant may have a negative impact on innocent children in particular. In view of Ms Katarzyna G.'s attitude and, above all, for the sake of children, as well as social interest and procedural economics, I ask the Minister to examine the possibility for the competent consul to perform certain legal assistance activities towards Mrs Katarzyna G. and if that would be impossible For the combination of cases and the possibility to provide explanations in one prosecutor's office. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u405	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u406	Mr. Marshal, my statement is addressed to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Dear Prime Minister, the tenders announced by State Treasury companies and other public entities are a basic form of procurement. Properly carried out protects the economic system against corruption and reduces the cost of manufacturing and providing services, thereby increasing the country's competitive power. Independently of internal regulations, Poland is also obliged to comply with European rules, such as the Agreement on the European Economic Area, sectoral agreements, bilateral agreements 1 or finally the Association Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Any deviation from these rules, in particular those of a discriminatory nature, raises suspicions of unfair procurement policy and, when it comes to operators from European countries, additionally influences the assessment of our country and trust in us. In view of the issues raised, I would like to inform the Prime Minister of the disturbing signals that some companies in the energy sector are using questionable legal practices in this area. I would also kindly ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions. Firstly, is it acceptable that one of the conditions for participation in the tender is that the tenderer demonstrates experience in the execution of works or design works which are the subject of the contract, while limiting that this may apply to works or design works carried out exclusively in Poland? Isn't it contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union which introduces freedom of movement for goods, persons, services and capital to restrict the legitimacy of robots or projects that have been made exclusively into Poland? Secondly, is it acceptable for the contracting authority to decide to exclude the contractor from the tendering procedure if the contractor is in dispute with the contracting company or one of its group companies? This is, in my view, an instrument of unacceptable pressure on potential tenderers. It is possible to exclude from the tendering proceedings all entities remaining in dispute irrespective of what the reasons for the dispute were, at which stage the dispute is located and who is correct in this dispute. This is a very convenient way of exerting pressure on economic operators, especially the weaker ones, because if they decide to enter into a dispute with the contracting authority or with one of the other companies of the capital group, they risk automatic exclusion from procurement proceedings conducted by these companies. This may be equivalent to bankruptcy for small entities. I will be obliged by the Prime Minister to answer these questions, and if you consider my doubts justified, I would also ask you to inform me of the steps taken to eliminate these practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u407	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, On 7 July 2016, at the twenty-second Senate meeting, I made a statement on the installation by PKP PLK in the municipality of Chrząstowice in the Opole Voivodeship of bilingual tables with the names of railway stations. I referred them to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, in whose area are matters of religious religion and national and ethnic minorities. By his authority in his second reply, dated 30 September this year, the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Sebastian Chwałek, shared my view expressed in the statement that the names of the stations and railway stations are not identical with the names of the localities, including the towns whose names are used in German. Moreover, the names of railway stations are not subject to the rules of the universally applicable law on the establishment of official names. It sets them up and changes the railway infrastructure manager within the PKP SA group. In response to my statement, the Minister undertook to send both a statement and a reply to it to the Minister for Infrastructure and Construction responsible for the supervision of PKP SA. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions. Have the appropriate letters been sent to you? How do you deal with the issues raised in the statement and the response to them by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration? Did you address to the PKP SA group, possibly PKP companies, Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA, an appropriate performance in the framework of supervision? When will the naming of Polish railway stations, including the municipality of Chrząstowice in the Opole Voivodeship, be adapted to Polish law? What is the time limit for the implementation of all German names from the buildings of Polish stations and railway stations in the field? With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-07-senat-31-6.u409	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of persons wishing to make a statement has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 30th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 38]]
