ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We begin to consider item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. Hello, guests. I warmly welcome Mr Andrzej Pozorski, Director of the Chief Commission for the pursuit of crime against the Polish Nationals; I also welcome Mr Jack Polańczyk, Head of the Office of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons; Mr Bogusław Gołąb, President of the Association of Repressed People's Associations in 1980 and 1990. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko; I warmly welcome Mr Janusz Olewiński, President of the Polish Association of Interned and Repressed; I welcome Mrs Grażyna Olewińska; I welcome Mrs Alina Cybula-Borowińska, President of the Association of Interned Women, Prisoners, Repressed in the State of War of the Mazowsze Region. Hello, very cordial guests. The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 324 and the committee's report In print No 324 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, President Stanisław Gogach, to present the report of the committee and the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I have the honour to present a report on the draft resolution of the Senate on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. The draft resolution was included in print No 324, the initiative was signed by the senators mentioned in the issue I just presented, dated 4 November 2016. The Legislative Commission discussed this project yesterday, and the outcome of the deliberations of the Legislative Commission is the proposal, the draft resolution contained in print No 324 S. This year marks the thirty-fifth anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. Many of us who sit in Senate benches have had the opportunity to experience the personal drama of introducing martial law in Poland. That is why we all the more considered in the committee that it is appropriate that such a resolution should be adopted and that the content of this proposed resolution should be adopted by the High House. Let me read the text that the committee has worked out. The committee's work was long, the committee worked very carefully on it, leaning on it, so that this resolution would be as appropriate as possible to the drama that happened at the time, i.e. the introduction of martial law. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the day... If we accept this, of course from today On the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. 13 December 2016 marks the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. This is one of the events of the latest history of Poland, which most strongly influenced the lives of many of our compatriots. The decision to bring troops and militia to the streets of the cities, to intern and arrest activists of Solidarity, including members of the Independent Student Association, and to introduce draconian laws, with an unlawful decree of martial law at the head, General Wojciech Jaruzelski's team destroyed the achievements of 16 months of NSZZ's activity Solidarity, a great 10-million-dollar social movement. The natural aspirations of the Polish people towards freedom, the introduction of democratic elections, free trade unions and the principles of social coexistence, and consequently the acquisition of full sovereignty by the Polish people, have been lost. The martial law, although formally in force until July 1983, actually since the changes in freedom in 1989 began the process of leaving Poland from the economic and moral crisis, in which we remained without the will of most Poles since 1944. As a result of the impunity of the security apparatus, supported by the prosecution and part of the judicial community, as well as the propaganda at that time, in 1981 and 1989, at least dozens of people, including priests, schoolchildren, students, farmers, workers, participants in the anti-direction demonstrations, activists of the Solidarity and Solidarity of Individual Farmers, were murdered in the years of 1981 and 1989. Thousands of people were repressed, deprived of their jobs, harassed by the SB and forced to cooperate. More than a million Poles decided to leave the country, and another million, without seeing the future for themselves, went to the state of the so-called. internal emigration. Our true friends did not fail in this difficult time for the Polish people. Holy Father John Paul II, whose subsequent pilgrimages to the Homeland in 1983 and 1987 gave Poles such a desire to change our fate. We are also grateful to all nations of the world and of Polonia, scattered across all continents, for the sacrifice and support of Poles with numerous signs of solidarity. We are grateful to those leaders of the world at that time, and especially to President Ronald Reagan of the United States, who decided to fight against the Evil Empire and used all their authority to support Polish independence aspirations. The result of these multilateral struggles, in which Poles focused on the ideals of the Solidarity and the Catholic Church played the most important role, was the defeat of communist ideology and the practice of Bolshevik governments, which have been tearing the Old Continent apart for decades. On the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law, the Senate of the Republic of Poland asks all Poles to worship those who died in the 1980s at the hands of communist oppressors, as well as mass participation. In particular, young people In celebrations, conferences, sessions and other historical and educational events bringing us closer knowledge of the last decade of communism in Poland. Let us be united today in view of the common experience that we have been subjected to as a nation and that we have not succumbed to. For we remained Poles who did not renounce the right to freedom and sovereignty. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee, the rapporteur of the committee. Would any of you gentlemen like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski spoke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I am very pleased that we are taking this initiative on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. I am saying these words as one of the signatories to the proposal to make this resolution. But I would also like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that in December we have 2 anniversaries which on our generation Or on our generations, maybe it is better to say this way that they have marked a very clear stigma. Both these anniversaries are some symbol of what the Polish People's Republic was. I'm thinking here of the 40th anniversary of the workers' massacre on the coast, which took place in almost the same days, in terms of date, because it was 16th, 17th December... [[14, 15...]] December 15th, yes, yes. Those were the... those days were pretty much the same. And those who remember these dramatic events... I witnessed the events in Szczecin in December 1970 and remember how underneath my school, one of the main streets of Szczecin, there were 30 tanks of T-55 and there was a ZOMO. It was simply a shocking experience, especially for young people. And for society at all. Well, I'm not talking about the victims that died back then. And the second event, whose anniversary is round, because the 30th fifth, is the introduction of martial law. I am very pleased that one important recital has been included in the draft resolution discussed here, which I think is particularly important as regards today's discussion, namely that the martial law was introduced in contradiction even with the law of the Polish People's Republic. This is a very important condition, because for many years we have witnessed the practice of some propaganda and manipulation that it was so-called. smaller evil that it avoided bloodshed, that thanks to it there was no Soviet intervention in Poland and that thanks to it the light leaders of the Military Council of National Rescue saved Poland from the terrible cataclysms that were supposed to come. And in this context, emphasising that martial law was contrary even to Peerel's law is fundamental. It is also important to restore memory and proper proportions. 'Cause I'll remind you. Some martial law makers, even in the environments of parts of solidarity elites, were glorified as sincere democrats who later redeemed their guilt. And even General Jaruzelski, who has never been tried and is a special character here, because in December 1970 he was Minister of National Defence and in 1981 he was the head of state, head of the party and played a key role... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, out of respect for the speaker and the others, I ask you very much to put out your conversations, not to speak. That's very inhospitable. You're welcome.]] Maybe I'll say it again. [[You're welcome, Senator.]] ...that General Jaruzelski, who was Minister of National Defence in December 1970 and in December 1981 was de facto the head of the communist state and the person who played a key role in the events mentioned here, never in the Third Polish Republic had any legal consequences in connection with the victims and the introduction of martial law. Not much, he was buried with national honors in 2014. This also shows how difficult a process of restoring memory of these traumatic, tragic events of our past... And how important it is that today, in the discussion of our latest history, we restore the proper proportions and also the historical truth. From this point on, I would like to thank Professor Żaryn, who wanted to be the main author of the text of this resolution, for the initiative. This is an important moment and we must remember that restoring the memory of these tragic events, but also dealing with these tragic events, is especially important for our generation. So that I hope that this resolution will be adopted and passed to the annals of the achievements of the Senate of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome the countries that joined us: Mr Daniel Alain Korona, President of the Board of the Association Fighting for Independence 1956 and Mr Bogusław Gołąb, President of the Associations Associations Repressed in 19801990. Fr. George Popieluszko. I also warmly welcome Senator Piotr Lukasz Andrzejewski. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! There are moments in our national history not only to be remembered, but also to be reminded of our fellow countrymen. This memory is alive, this memory is in our minds, this memory is in our hearts. This memory is not only in historical archives or history books This memory is also present in this Chamber. Therefore, we have full grounds for a resolution commemorating the thirty-fifth anniversary of the martial law... to recall this fact. They then tried to run our dreams away with tanks, then they thought that under the caterpillars of these tanks our dreams of democratic, independent Poland would be crushed. But they didn't make it. And that's what I miss about this draft resolution, which is rather Martyrological. Okay, okay, okay, okay, It was dedicated to victims of martial law, including many of our friends, who died under various circumstances as a result of communist oppression. There are not enough reasons for pride in this resolution. They tried to destroy us, but it didn't work. I would therefore like to propose, Mr Marshal, 3 amendments to this draft resolution, so that it expresses our conviction that we have won, that we have also won in difficult days of martial law and after its suspension. I would like to propose a change in the sentence saying that the decision to bring troops to the streets of cities, to intern and arrest nearly 10,000 activists of the Soviet Union and to introduce draconian laws, with a decree of martial law, General Wojciech Jaruzelski's crew... And here I propose the words "she tried to destroy." Because she didn't destroy, she tried to destroy the achievements of 16 months of the existence of the NSZZ Solidarity, the great, 10 millionth social movement. I ask you to consider the possibility of introducing words, tried to destroy instead of the word "destroyed." Because she didn't. And in the next sentence, the natural aspirations of the nation to gradually expand the sphere of freedom, to introduce democratic principles of social coexistence and, as a result, to free the Polish people from the yoke of Moscow... I suggest you replace the first word... [[But it's gone.]] [[It's gone. There's a new line.]] [[That's a different line, Mr. Senator.]] [[Mr. Senator has an old print.]] [[This isn't the print, Mr. Senator. The committee's report is in print No 324 S, and you don't have it in front of you.]] In that case, I'm only proposing the first amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Colleagues from the Solidarity Road! Thirty-fifth anniversary... I find it hard not to say anything, because as a participant, as a victim of martial law, but also as a colleague of all those who are in parliamentary, senatorial, as well as outside the benches... But I also think of those who may be expecting such a resolution. Of course, I believe that the resolution meets the expectations of the opinion, even the hidden ones, the unarranged ones, for example, addressed to a generation whose gift was not to survive these dramatic moments, the traumatic moments. And it seems to me that it illustrates well the condition of that time, although the most beautiful words, even strengthened by images, are unable to give up the spirit, it would seem, then, in a particular trauma of the nation. I have some comments, some corrections. I am sorry, I will not insist on having to introduce them, because, as I said, it is difficult to illustrate that, outside even the whole world, martial law, which was introduced in Poland, all the more so after 35 years. But for the sake of some truth, it is appropriate to mention the support of the Warsaw Agreement, especially the Soviet Union, in the passage in which it is written about the decision to introduce the army and militia. It wasn't an aggression. It was an internal aggression. Because it could be assumed that we could handle it, even though the surprises were great and tragic. However, it would not have been possible at that time to succeed in the martial law if military, economic and political support from the States of the Warsaw Agreement had not been granted. I'm not gonna be like Honecker, Husák, messing with Jaruzelski with Comrade Brezniev. I don't know how they did it, since Mr. Brezhnev had serious problems with his mouth at the time. He said he had a frog in his mouth. That's one amendment. Two. They are talking about arresting activists of the Solidarity Party, and that's true. Even if an extended interpretation were to be accepted, it should be mentioned that it was not the war of Jaruzelski with the Solidarity. It was Jaruzelski's war with society. And if so, it is true that it was arrested, not only activists of Solidarity were interned, but also people of culture, intellectuals, young people and students. After all, these people made a very important contribution to creating passive and active organizational resistance against power. I think... on the other side we're talking about gratitude. This is also an important accent in this resolution. This gratitude is built not only by official recognition. I was given, among others. I give the award to the head of German diplomacy, and I have full appreciation for President Reagan, but I think it is necessary to mention those people who have shown help at the least expected moment. About the usual... About Parliaments that explicitly mobilized by resolutions Sometimes too passive or resistant, or even connected with the interests of the communist countries, governments. Parliaments have designated the main area of action, the area of support for Poland, among others. By declaring boycott by President Reagan, but also in Germany, probably by Schmidt, and in the UK, and in France. It is also important to mention ordinary people. At that time, at the time of the introduction of the martial law, there were a lot of initiatives related to Poland, solidarity with the Solidarity. Citizens' structures created by people from whom it seemed that we did not have to expect help. And it wasn't just charity or humanitarian aid. How many drivers and trade union workers from those countries participated in the convoys in which the marshal was transported could say more about this - machines, weapons of solidarity, weapons of free speech? How many contacts have been made? And how were these movements networked in the West to be effective? So that I think that these people, these organizations and their actions must be remembered. And here, it would seem, in this way, the Senate has worked back what was due. But... I like the penultimate sentence: "Let us be united today in the common experience that we have been subjected to as a nation and have not succumbed to." I have serious doubts as to whether this is an actual honest phrase or just a rhetorical figure, whether it's just a phrase, I'd say, seemingly. Because if I mention that you've recently been president in Gdansk In the place where the Solidarity movement arose, more: where during the difficult years of martial law was shown to be a great fortitude, where today victory is fought, divided people into those who properly interpreted history, acted in it, and those who hid it or forged it... And this is where the president spoke to the people of the Third Republic. [[Jackie, don't gallop.]] This is... In my opinion, one denies the other. I also have in mind all the phrases that this idea of unification... And it happened. Although it cannot be obscured that the solidarity was divided, not only politically, but also worldlyly. But today, when we mention this, when we talk about fruits, when we try to export our sense of pride and victory, this kind of division, to those... who stood where, and who forged, knowingly or unconsciously. History is an insult to all those who created Solidarity... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...to protect her... [[...10 minutes have passed, I'm sorry.]] ...and today they're presenting with a draft of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u9	Well, thank you very much. Extremely interesting performance. Please, Senator Jan Żaryn. [[Mr. Marshal, will you give me another five minutes' vote?]] The rules of procedure provide for this. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the initiator of this draft resolution, I would like to refer to some of the statements that have been made here. This is especially about Senator Rulewski's speech, who wanted another five minutes. I kindly inform you that, in fact, if you take a good look at the content of this resolution, it is all the threads that you have raised, perhaps in a different way, but have been placed in this resolution. Of course, something can always be changed and new proposals can be made, but it is worth doing so when amendments bring some extra value. The Solidarity Movement has not been restricted in this resolution only for the "Solidarity' of the worker Of course, we treat this phenomenon more widely. Therefore, we also place people of culture, journalists, writers in this trend, the movement of solidarity, and so it has been treated in this record. Of course, all intelligent professions and all cultural people can be mentioned, but it doesn't seem to make much sense. But the most important thing is, without a doubt, what Senator Rulewski said about the last sentences and whether or not we really gave in... Please read another sentence because it explains why we have not given in, to what extent we have not given in and what is our victory. I hope that this next sentence will convince you, however, that we did not give up, because we remained Poles who did not renounce the right to freedom and sovereignty. I hope you have no doubt, Senator, that these are two very important concepts and values that unite us. Therefore, we still recognize that someone is a traitor, and someone is a patriot, and we can at least try to distinguish between these concepts. And this is, among other things, the measure of whether someone has the right to freedom and sovereignty, or has taken away that right, because he can no longer distinguish between where there is betrayal and where there is love for his homeland. So I think that in this respect this resolution, although imperfect, does give the right thing. The basic point of this resolution And that was certainly the reason why I am now performing is to highlight two important substantive issues. I mean, on one side. undoubtedly on 13 December 1981 it was a day which touched us as a society, including our generations, also represented here in the Senate, in a unique way. The uniqueness of this trauma is the reason why both the Senate and the Sejm, as well as all other responsible institutions of the Polish state, will speak on that day, 13 December, because it is undoubtedly a generational event which must be analysed. It is our community experience, undoubtedly traumatic and based on the wrong intentions of the party that introduced this martial law. And this is the first, quite obvious intention for which this resolution should be taken. The other is connected to something that Senator Rulewski or Senator Klich, I can't remember which, rightly, they called... Of course, except for the Martyrology, there must be one too. ♪ and it's like, "Oh, - Thank you. - Thank you. I mean, we are undoubtedly Poles who talk about themselves all the time, and rightly so. That they are a nation of history. Therefore, as a historical nation, we recognize more and more what happened at that time. We also recognize better and better as a society, to whom we should be grateful. And this expression of gratitude is included here. Of course, it is no surprise to us and to anyone in Poland that gratitude is primarily directed towards John Paul. II. But he's not so sure anymore. And we certainly should stress that. At that time, after 13 December 1981, we had very many acts of solidarity and acts of merciful support for a very poor Polish society, whose poverty was also the result of the introduction of martial law. And without a doubt this gratitude should also be given to specific persons who have been mentioned in part here. President Ronald Reagan played a particular role here, which, you can say, has reversed the attitude towards the Soviet Union in American politics. Both the name of the Soviet Union of evil empire and, later, the reference of memorable words to Gorbachev in Berlin, Mr Gorbachev, demolished this wall, all of which constituted some very important steps, not only symbolic but also real, because supported by real politics, to change reality in Central and Eastern Europe. However, I also have, you can say, an autofix to this text. We have undoubtedly forgotten the person who requires a special opinion, which should be included in the resolution. Undoubtedly, this person today is also treated as a symbol of a certain attitude. It is, of course, Colonel Richard Kuklinski. I will propose to this text an amendment that would give the opportunity to include the name General Ryszard Kuklinski today. I will say right away that as far as Senator Klich's amendment is concerned, she obviously tried to destroy, not destroy, and, of course, the sentence with this change sounds better, although from the point of view of the logic of the text it was mostly, at least in my intentions, to show this state of trauma. I mean, on December 13, he obviously destroyed, didn't have any building blocks in him, he just destroyed them. This is undoubtedly the moment when the intention of the perpetrators of the martial law was to sustain the fallen nomenclature system, and everything that involved dismantling the totalitarian state, and it was the radiation of the workers' solidarity on all other social departments, not only was it inhibited, but it was destroyed. But, of course, fortunately, it was not so badly destroyed that we, as a nation, would go too far and tell ourselves that we no longer have the right to freedom and sovereignty at all. So internal logic, you might say, suggests that the wording of Senator Klich is better. I therefore support this amendment and, at the same time, I will also propose an amendment concerning the character of Richard Kuklinski. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no way to not say it here... There is no colleague of Rulewski's who has already mentioned this event so important to us, for us, for Solidarity, Solidarity of workers, Solidarity of agriculture... It was actually a black night for us, as I call it, a martial law, because it didn't start all morning, but it started at night when we were interned. It was a black night that's stuck in a lot of us. I can tell you about a lot of farmers... Because everyone remembers that the workplaces... But in Zamość, in Siedlce... There was an occupation strike at the ZSL headquarters at my place in Zamość, and then they pulled us out of that area at night, from the headquarters that was occupied. I would like to say that 66 farmers were interned in Lublin and 34 from Zamość alone. It was just a night that ended not with the end of the night on 13 December, but after all, as we write, until 1983. As we write in this resolution, we worship all these people. And we all remember the mine "Uncle," one of the miners who came from Zamość, from Tarnogrod, from our region, also died there. Many young people died at that time. I'm glad we can celebrate with our resolution these people and remind you of those days in history that have deprived thousands of... And even we say that millions of Poles had to emigrate, and they did not really return to Poland to this day. This is a huge loss for the Polish people, because so many hundreds of thousands of Poles were forced to emigrate. We've been through this at the time, but today we're committed... I am glad that we write in this resolution: On the 35th anniversary of the introduction of the martial law, the Senate of the Republic of Poland asks all Poles to pay tribute to all those who died in the 1980s at the hands of communist oppressors, as well as mass participation In particular, young people In celebrations, conferences, sessions and other historical and educational events bringing us closer knowledge of the last decade of communism in Poland. And these words: "Let us be united today in view of the common experience which we have been subjected to as a nation and which we have not succumbed to. For we remained Poles who did not renounce the right to freedom and sovereignty. I think that these words are very clear, for which I thank the initiators very much on behalf of the NSZZ Individual Farmers Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u13	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u14	In the spirit of what I was talking about earlier... I don't see Senator Zarin, but since he shares the view that although they tried, it didn't work out, although they tried to destroy our aspirations for freedom, it didn't work out, and that they tried, but they didn't... I miss one more sentence here, ladies and gentlemen, which would stress that apart from those who for various reasons have decided to emigrate internally or to travel abroad. And it was hundreds, thousands, millions. In addition to those who were oppressed, deprived of their jobs, harassed by the SB, like many of us, or forced to cooperate, there were also many who engaged in opposition activities and did so with extraordinary determination and real courage. Those were really the times where character works. It was a time when someone showed what he was like, if he had the guts or if he was a coward. And many showed real civil courage by doing what was threatened by being fired from work, from college or from repressing their family. Therefore, I would like to make one more amendment. In relation to what I said earlier, and after the last sentence of the second paragraph, which speaks of emigration either foreign or internal, add a sentence: "Many workers, intellectuals, students and farmers have been determined to build underground structures. It was thanks to their courage and efforts that Poland regained independence after years and introduced principles of parliamentary democracy. I think we're not only guilty of the memory of the victims, not only of the trauma, but we also have reason to be proud. Jan Nowak-Jezioranski has always said that we will not achieve our political goals as a nation unless we are proud of our achievements. The reason for pride on the occasion of martial law is that many could not be broken, and many of them began to work in the underground. I think they should be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u15	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution at the beginning reads: On 13 December 2016, the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland is passed. This is one of the events of the latest history of Poland, which most strongly influenced the lives of many of our compatriots. Further in the resolution we have a reminder of the attitude of the Holy Father John Paul II, who in these tragic days stood on the side of the nation. It is this attitude of the Holy Father John Paul II that I wish to devote my attention. His first reaction to the martial law was characteristic. That is, speaking on the occasion of the prayer of the Angel of the Lord on Sunday 13 December in St. Piotr, first asked for a prayer for Poland and then reminded his words a few weeks earlier on the occasion of the anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War. I quote, "Polish blood cannot be shed because too much of it was poured out, especially during the last war. We must do everything in order to build the future of our homeland in peace. The next day, December 14th, St. Peter at the call of the Holy Father took place the prayer vigil of thousands of believers On the initiative of Mr Liberazione, prayers were made for Poland. John Paul II, speaking to them, emphasized the great solidarity of the world with the Polish people. Accented I quote: Unnegotiable human rights and the rights of the nation. The Pope said that the fight for these rights must create great solidarity with a European and global dimension, because to save these principles means to defend and develop justice and peace in today's world. The Holy Father called for... he pointed out that the fight against solidarity in Poland is the fight against solidarity and human rights around the world. On 16 December, during the first post martial law of the general audience, the Holy Father tried a comprehensive assessment of martial law. He said, among other things, that Poles have I quote: As a nation, the right to live your own life and to solve your internal problems in the spirit of your own beliefs, according to your culture and national tradition. Undoubtedly difficult matters cannot be solved by violence. The Pope also made a request to all of his fellow countrymen, saying, 'I quote 'The need to return to the path of renewal, shaped by the method of dialogue, while respecting the human rights of work.' This road was not easy for understandable reasons But it's not impossible. The strength and seriousness of power is also expressed in dialogue and not in the use of force. In this speech, John Paul II also strongly supported the concept of "Solidarity," saying that it was the term "Solidarity." He talks about the great effort that people have made to secure the true dignity of a man of work. In turn, speaking on 1 January 1982, he said that the word "Solidarity" was again quoted here. He talks about an effort towards justice and peace. Hence, it is widely known and accepted worldwide. "Solidarity belongs to the modern heritage of people working. Pope John Paul II referred to the martial law not only in words, but also took concrete action. E.g. On December 18, 1981, Archbishop Luigi Poggi arrived in Warsaw, who, on behalf of the Holy Father, gave the Chairman of the Military Council of National Savings a special letter in which the Holy Father addressed General Wojciech Jaruzelski with a strong request and at the same time with a call to stop the activities that bring with them the bloodshed of brotherly blood. The Pope in this letter demanded the abolition of martial law, respect for human rights and solving difficult matters by means of dialogue. He continued to write, among others. Yes: In the last two centuries in particular, the Polish Nation has suffered many harms, and many Polish blood has been shed, seeking to extend power over our Homeland. In this historical perspective, Polish blood cannot be spilled further, this blood cannot burden consciences and stain the hands of the people. I therefore appeal to you, General, with a strong request and at the same time a call, that matters relating to the renewal of society, which have been handled on the path of peaceful dialogue since August 1980, should return to the same path. Even if it is difficult, it is not impossible. The good of the whole nation demands it. It also demands the opinion of the world as a whole, of all societies that rightly bind peace to respect for human rights and the rights of the nation. The general desire for peace argues that the martial law in Poland should not continue. The Church is the spokesman for this desire. Christmas is coming, which for so many generations have brought together all the sons and daughters of our nation at the Christmas levy. It is necessary to do everything to ensure that this year's festival Poles do not have to spend under threat of death and repression. I address your conscience, General, to the consciences of all those people on whom the decision depends at the moment. It was not until January 12, 1982 that John Paul II received the reply of General Wojciech Jaruzelski to his letter dated January 6, 1982. The president of the WRON agreed with the Holy Father that martial law is a shock to the Polish society, while at the same time ensuring the humanitarianism of the government's actions. He also made it clear that martial law was a lesser evil against the threat of alleged external intervention. He wrote: "It is precisely in the name of preventing a massive, fierce confrontation, a mass bloodshed that we have introduced martial law, thus alienating the phantom of civil war from such a difficult in the past of an experienced nation. However, it would not necessarily be closed within the Polish framework; it could lead to a much wider cataclysm. In reply to this letter, John Paul II wrote to General Jaruzelski in his second letter dated 6 April 1982.: General! The analysis of your handwriting urges me to reiterate my request in the letter of December. In order to rebuild the power of the state resulting from the social support, it is necessary to remove the shock caused by martial law, the internment of thousands of leading activists of Solidarity with Lech Wałęsa and a whole range of painful sanctions in relation to the world of work and culture. Not only do you have to remove the shock. Trust must also be restored. In your letter I read: "We know that the state must be a strong social support. We're gonna go for it honestly. These words point to a different model of government conduct than the one used in connection with martial law. The change in the behaviour of the authorities in Poland will certainly also change the attitude of foreign countries towards the Polish People's Republic. Western societies, connected with Poland with many ties of culture and history, also during the period of martial law, provide various assistance to my people in Poland. They are ready from temporary restrictions of a political nature to a planned and extensive cooperation. (...) The nation of Poland deserves to be able to build its sovereign existence in conditions of peace and respect for the civil rights of all its sons and daughters. I quote these letters because they are not so widely known, but at the same time testify to how deeply the Holy Father was involved in matters which were then in Poland. It wasn't just an exchange of letters. John Paul II, on many occasions, emphasized unity with the Polish people, evoked hope, indicated ways out of the crisis. In his view, the law of war violated fundamental human and national rights. When the days of solidarity with the Polish people, food collections, clothing, etc. began in the Western countries, John Paul II also joined in this action, expressing his deep gratitude for all the evidence of this solidarity and for the material and moral help given to our homeland. These are just a few thoughts about how the Pope and the Church defended the affairs of the nation. This should be mentioned in a situation where today young people either do not know it or... when the Church is accused of a harmful role in the process of building the future of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u17	Thank you very much. I invite you to discuss Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 13 December 1981 I was in Bydgoszcz and on that day I returned to Cracow. I've seen Warsaw, tanks, armored transporters. A lot of people cried. But I wanted to say two things. First thing. After the declaration of martial law at the Mining and Steel Academy, an occupation strike was announced. There have been people who have hesitated and who have not come for this strike, but there have come a lot of people, because over the last few weeks we have been saying, just like all of Solvency, that if something happens, then action needs to be taken. That thing was a threat to external intervention. We remember the instructions reflected on the replicators that you have to reverse traffic signs, etc. So we're here for that AGH strike with the sleeping bags, the canned ones. In the large hall of the pavilion, the C-4 is such a large hall for geodetic measurements. Holy Masses were celebrated. It took two or three days, and I can't remember right now. Nevertheless, what I remembered for life was the pacification of this strike by the militia and the military. And I remember crowded in the courtyard of the Mining and Steel Academy, in snow and frost, older professors, surrounded by militia and army. It was night, two or three hours a night. The second thread that is not mentioned in this resolution I'll tell you why there's probably no mention of him. They're scouts. The scouts soon after the establishment of the "Solidarity" set up such a horizontal structure That's what it was called back then. The Circles of Scouting Instructors. Andrzej Malkowski. Some said that it was a scouting opposition in the official ZHP, so as not to use more harsh words, we preferred to define scouting indecent. Shortly before 13 December, the Scout's Circles. Andrzej Małkowski was announced by the Winter Boy Scouts and Scouts. It was an activity based on what the Girl Scouts did in 1939. In 1939, the Girl Scouts called an ambulance for the Girl Scouts. And it was the Winter Boy Scouts and Boy Scouts' ambulances that had such white bands on which the winter ambulances were written, as it turned out, after the introduction of the martial law was very much needed, that helped many people in need. And we know that the phones didn't work back then, that you couldn't call an ambulance, you couldn't get basic help. Of course, they were also among these young people to stop. Conspiracy work has begun. It can be said that without this conspiracy work, without organizing these young people, they would have become a very easy haul for the service. This was the case in the first days of martial law, when a boy scout with a backpack of flyers was arrested, then forced to cooperate. That's what happened. But it is true that the thread of this youthful, scouting conspiracy is poorly documented because we did not want to put these young people at risk. However, it was difficult for scout instructors to involve them, to what extent they were taught patriotic attitudes, to build up hope, to provide help to those in need, and at the same time not to put them at risk. It was such an idea, a plum method: the instructors were in a hard conspiracy, and the young people cooperated and participated in these activities. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to submit a motion for this resolution. In the first version of the resolution in the third paragraph, there was such a sentence submitted by subtitles: In this difficult time for the Polish people our true friends did not fail, including in the first place the Holy Father... In the next print, No 324 S, they were divided into two sentences, but this second sentence does not sound good: the Holy Father John Paul II, whose other pilgrimages gave to Poles... I propose an amendment, which I'll edit in a moment and pass on to the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u19	Thank you very much. I invite you to discuss Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very glad that we are adopting this resolution, which concerns such a burdened decision of the then governing leaders of the totalitarian system as the introduction of martial law. Today, soon, in a few days, is the 30th anniversary. I would also like to bow down to a group of people who have not been mentioned here, and in this direction my proposal to supplement this resolution will be aimed at. Namely, taking into account the legal aspect of all the lawlessness that took place on 13 December 1981, and the whole series of trials, the unlawful persecution of trade union activists and other persons who exercised their natural right to freedom of expression, to manifest their views, especially the creation of trade unions... There's been a lot of action that ended up in court. In this resolution, the judges are mentioned, it is said that a significant part of the judicial community has, unfortunately, supported the actions of the safety apparatus and the prosecutor's office. Of course, it's true. I would even say that not only part, but unfortunately the great majority of this environment supported. But I would like to stress that I have often had pleasant surprises. I will never forget the situation when the former secretary of the party court organization thought it, who, as I later learned, had a revelation and conversion after the visit of the Holy Father. He was thinking of a case where a man was accused of allegedly attacking security officers who came to his house to arrest him because he was supposedly going to expose two Alsatian Shepherds to these officers, which, of course, did a little bit of order with these officers. And the same judge, making a real legal masterpiece, towards me, as I say, a pleasant surprise, so justified the sentence that he exonerated this man, of course coming out of purely legal premises, namely that he had no influence on the behaviour of those dogs who responded in a manner appropriate to their entry into the house. But I also remember the embarrassing fact about this case. Well, it's been almost a year, and here's an emergency review, then it was the equivalent of today's cassation complaint brought by one of the prosecutors of the Attorney General's Office on a minor matter, because this case was treated as a misdemeanor. I'll be honest with you, this is the first time as a lawyer. At the time I was still very young, the beginners met with such a situation that the extraordinary review was applied in a relatively trivial case. Because criminal cases are trivial compared to criminal cases. That proves how different people we've dealt with at the time. Sometimes there were also negative surprises, disappointments, because, behold, there was a judge who thought he was a decent man, and he handed down convictions, not led by his own conscience and by the letter of the law, but by pure fear. Of course, I am far from condemning these people, for courage is relatively rare, although I think it should be required of judges. I realize that these were different times and that courage was very expensive and rare at the time. I would also like to give due honor here to the lawyers who at that moment stood up to the task. I look especially at my colleague, patron and senator, Mr Piotr Łukasz Andrzejewski. I also mention those who have already left, me. Mr Maciej Bednarkiewicz, who last week we said goodbye to at Powęzkowski's cemetery, as well as... [[Dubois, Taylor.]] [[Olszewski.]] [[Jack Taylor.]] [[Kosiński.]] Yes, I am well advised here: Counselor Dubois, Counselor Taylor, and in Krakow, Mr Rosemaryovich, who was a model for me to carry out the task of attorney. These people, no matter the dangers, no matter the persecution they've suffered... And I remind you that Counselor Bednarkiewicz was even arrested, was deprived of his freedom for more than six months, was also the subject of a media chase. To this day, I remember Urban's spokesperson laughing at him, saying that your patron was defending charity... And he defended in various cases, but he also accused, for example, in the case of Przemyk, who was shamefully murdered by the Security Service. And, ladies and gentlemen, Urban used to make fun of him, saying that since your patron was a charity attorney, it's interesting how he could afford such charity activities. He must have had some hidden income he didn't tax. Ladies and gentlemen, that was the price. For some it was the price of imprisonment, for some it was the price of suspension in the right to pursue the profession, for some it was the price of burning the house, as it happened for the attorney and senator of many terms present here, Mr.Piotr Łukasz Andrzejewski, and for others it was the tendency of tax checks and surveillance and cutting off telephones in law firms. This was done so that we could not communicate with each other, between lawyers, as well as with our clients. I remember those moments when you had to break through armed militia cordons in front of your crime colleges or the courts. It was necessary to reach out to these people and collect their power of attorney to defend themselves. And I remember the verbal encounters with those militiamen who said with ridicule in their eyes, "Well, what right do you have to defend yourselves if you don't legitimize yourselves with power of attorney?" Show me your power of attorney, and we'll let you in on these people. Of course, we said at the time that these people wanted to give us power of attorney, only that they were separated from us by those officers who didn't want to let that happen. These fights ended with happiness so that we were finally given the opportunity to take away this power of attorney, and in extreme cases where they were not meant to allow it, these persecuted, hunted people gave us such power of attorney for the protocol. I also remember ridiculous behaviors, especially those of my fellow offenders, when we were told that we were only lawyers, and that we were told to remember our role. Then we reminded them that our role may be only a lawyer for them, but for us it is a calling to make sure that the trial is fair, and therefore we will keep a proper record of the testimony of the witnesses and the explanations of the accused. And we did it with all consequence. I also remember when, especially during various patriotic manifestations, in particular on 3 May, they attacked people physically, in various ways, using armored cars or water parcels and often caught people not participating in these events. The championship in the actions of the ubeks was that they often accused people who were random participants in these events, or actually merely observers of them. Of course, this was all part of a system designed to intimidate the public and intimidate the lawyer. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a slight amendment here to mention the thread of the beautiful attitude of the attorney at that time. The point is to add, before the last paragraph of the first paragraph, that their price for defending society against violations of fundamental human rights, including union freedom, was paid by lawyers of arrests, suspension in the law of the profession, biased tax checks, surveillance, switch-off of telephones, etc. I think that... [[It's too much.]] Please? [[We'd all have to sign in, including the railroads.]] [[It's too much.]] No. I'm talking about a thread on justice. This is justified by some logic. We're talking about the D.A.'s office and we're talking about the judge's community. I've run out of words about a lawyer's attitude here. That's why I'm making such a request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u21	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! High Izbo! The state of war is indeed an important event in the history of Poland, with all the consequences that have already been mentioned here. But... [[Sad...]] Of course it's sad, but we came out of this purgatory with our heads raised, as Senator Żaryn said. We didn't get suffocated. Now, back to your patron's proposal, I'm going to say that this amendment is too extensive in terms of... One word could be said for the role of lawyers, because they, too, shared the fate of other widely repressed people. I'd like to say a few more sentences about names. Symbols. It's a good thing the senator filled in the colonel's name, now General Kuklinski. His activity is particularly related to martial law, since he was giving information about martial law. There's John Paul. II, Reagan's name is Kuklinski. And I suggest, in the second paragraph, that, after the words of the Solidarity Solidarists, add the words "with Lech Wałęęsą" at the head. Because it's a symbol too. It's also a symbol. Ladies and gentlemen, back then, Let's remember, it was a symbol of Poland, then of Poland, which fought communism. And that's... There was a Nobel Prize, and so on. I'm not gonna talk about it because it's obvious. Come on. In the second paragraph... In the third paragraph, after the words "We are also grateful to all nations of the world and of Polonia, scattered across all continents, for the sacrifice and support of Poles with numerous proofs of solidarity, I would add two very important names: "In particular, Zbigniew Brzeziński and Jan Nowak Jeziorski." Those were the people outside who were, as it were, ambassadors. And while we are talking about Polonia, about scattered people, here we have Nowak-Jezioranski and we have Free Europe, and here we have our lawyer, Professor Brzeziński in the United States, whose attitude certainly influenced the attitude of Reagan, whom we call here. That's why the names that have been mentioned here so far, and the names that I'm proposing... Ladies and gentlemen, let us rise above the current disputes, let us see how really... what symbols were then and let us give, so to speak, the truth, and I think that then this resolution will actually be complete and adopted without consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u23	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Probier. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I fully share the initiative to adopt this resolution on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of the martial law. I share most of the opinions expressed here, but I feel an internal need to share a certain personal reflection. This reflection will be particularly relevant to Senator Wind's speech and to Senator Cichoń's speech. Well, I watched these events from the point of view of the university, from the point of view of a young worker who was preparing his doctoral work at the Faculty of Mining and Geology at the time. And the whole period before the introduction of martial law almost every day, also at night, I stayed at the university, performed, constructed geological maps, mining maps. One of the reasons I attended night classes at the university was that in the dorm room where I lived with my wife, I didn't have enough space to spread out and construct these maps. So I gladly took shifts, watched, supervised the students so that they would not succumb to certain provocations. I had the opportunity to see the behavior of the surrounding population, which each morning provided food, milk, buns, sometimes a little sausage to the students who were on strike. And for me, the biggest event and the most painful fact was that my youthful, romantic view of the world was so brutally interrupted. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing wrong with it... or there's a lot of good things to see in every bad situation. It gave me the opportunity to meet excellent people and professors, but I also had the opportunity to meet ordinary scumbags, ordinary scumbags. That's what I'm gonna say. And no matter what side of the conflict they were in at that time. I believe that martial law has caused great damage to universities and universities as well. College life has been brutally interrupted. One of the evidence was that after 3:00 p.m., you had to arrest the typewriters, lock them up with a chain. I witnessed it. And at war, academic life has never returned to its original state. And before that, by 8:00, until 9:00, there were a lot of colleagues who were doing their job, and they were discussing the problems of that time. In conclusion, I would like to say what was positive for me. I had a chance to get to know the real authorities. And the professors were rushed to do the cleaning work on the removal of the snow. And I had the honor of removing snow with the biggest employees of our university. It's just a little thing about communications. Professor Wind said there was no communication. The mining departments were connected. Zoomers didn't know there was an internal communications system, so-called. mining. All the mines and mining departments were connected. The professor wasn't in AGH's mining department, and they were connected for a few days. We knew what was going on. I don't know what the railroad connection was like, but... [[It wasn't.]] It wasn't. And they forgot the mining communications. They didn't come in with cleavers, with crowbars, and they didn't. We were still communicating between the mines for a few days, to Uncle. Possibly after Uncle, it was eliminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u25	Thank you very much. I invite you to discuss Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My generation, who has survived martial law, is particularly sensitive to defending the principles of democracy, freedom and the rule of law. Even at that time, martial law violated even the Constitution of that time. And that's why, with the experience of a dozen months of freedom, we know that a power that does not comply with the rules of law, a power that violates the rule of law, can also choose to do so. To bring troops to the streets, to impose extreme rigors for society, to take away the freedom that we had at that time. We are discussing a resolution that has historical significance in a specific political situation. And that's where I start. It is not surprising that people of my generation are particularly sensitive to the violation of the law and the rule of law. This resolution is, of course, necessary. You have to remember the black night of martial law. A black night that turned out to be a black night, not just for society. Later it turned out to be a black night for the power of that time. Because the decision on martial law was the beginning of the end of totalitarian power in Poland. This decision didn't do anything, although according to Jaruzelski's idea it was going to do everything. It was intended to bring prosperity and economic development, not only to limit freedom but also to economic failure. Because that was the outcome of the martial law. The economy also does not develop without freedom. There are several shortcomings in this resolution. There is no mention of the role of the PZPR. PZPR doesn't exist there. Did the authors of the resolution forget about him? There's only the Security Service. PZPR doesn't exist. There is no propaganda either. There is no regime television. There's no press. I won't go into details, but it all created martial law, the atmosphere of martial law. Not only were they arrested, but they were also disgusted on TV... They said he stole something, beat someone up. It's not that political activity... This resolution is also, why I am not surprised, the clear application of historical policy by Senator Zarin. I know this policy, I know it, and I see it in this resolution... It's perfectly visible. The role of the Church is exposed everywhere. Right. But if we mention who died, then... what, first of all, at the beginning of the priests? The workers were mostly killed. This historical policy is also indicated by the unctim, the link in the passage: Poles focused around the ideals of solidarity and the Catholic Church. I know many who did not feel connected with the Catholic Church, and acted in the underground, participated in these activities. It's clear to me. This is just the historical policy that Senator Żaryn was talking about. She is implemented in this resolution. It is not good that it is implemented in this resolution. It was not mentioned at all in the proposed resolution that the Poles created something that is a phenomenon. The underground structure was created, basically an underground state. After the January Uprising, the World War II period and the post-war period, until 1947, for the third time an underground state existed in Poland. There was no army, of course. This subterranean country had no army, no judiciary, no judgments like it did a few decades ago, but all other attributes were. There was underground power at national level, there was a temporary coordination committee, there were regional committees. In Gdansk there was a regional coordination committee, elsewhere it was called different, but it was underground power, which organized and called for resistance. And that was really important. And it was also very Polish. So let it also be a clue that Poles, when they lose their freedom, are able to organize themselves. Every time, it was, and every time it was. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u27	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Mr. Senator Bogdan Klich, Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski, Mr. Senator Jan Żaryn, Mr. Senator Kazimierz Wind, Mr. Zbigniew Cichoń and Mr. Senator Piotr Zientarski. Is there anyone else? Did I read everyone? The discussion is closed. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. I therefore conclude that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Gogacz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u28	Mr. Marshal, in connection with the amendments tabled... [[Please turn on the microphone.]] ...for the draft of this resolution I submit a request for the appointment of the Legislative Commission to prepare an additional report in order to carry out the third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Gogacz has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear a voice of objection, I will consider that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I don't see any objections. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u30	The meeting of the Legislative Commission to examine the requests submitted at the Senate meeting for the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the implementation of the martial law in Poland will take place 30 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u31	I hereby declare an hour's rest with the possibility of extension if the committee fails to complete the sitting and prints are not prepared. I would also like to inform you that, at the end of the break, there will be a vote on this point. I'm declaring an hour's recess by the hour. 11.35. [[Adjournment in the sitting from 10 minutes 32 to 11 minutes 35]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u32	I'm extending the recess until 12:05. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 35 to 12 minutes 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, as it was only a few minutes ago that the committee's meeting ended, and there were quite a lot of auto-corrections to the proposals made, the office needs another half hour to prepare the documents. As a result, I am extending the period until 12.35 p.m. At 12.35 a vote will be held on the resolution. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 05 to 12 minutes 34]] Ladies and gentlemen, the prints are not ready yet. I'm extending the recess to 12.45, 10 minutes. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 34 to 12 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u34	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 324 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the break, a meeting took place, a meeting of the Legislative Committee. A total of 10 amendments to the original text were considered during this meeting. These 10 amendments triggered a discussion which ultimately resulted in the vast majority of these amendments being accepted by the members of the Legislative Commission. The Commission supported amendments 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10. In other words, the committee did not support virtually only Amendment 4, which became a minority proposal. I would also like to say that almost all these amendments, as regards the original versions they were submitted to the Marshal, have been slightly modified with the agreement of the contributors and therefore sound slightly different from those which have been passed on. Therefore, if you allow me, I will read these amendments in the version in which they were adopted during the meeting of the Legislative Commission. Amendment 1, adopted by the Legislative Commission: in the third sentence of the first paragraph, words are added with the support of the Warsaw Agreement, in particular the Soviet Union, after the words'military' and'military'. Amendment 2 as follows: in the first paragraph, the words "men of science and culture" are inserted after the words "Solidarity." Amendment 3 has not been modified: the word "destructed" is replaced by "destructed." Amendment 4, which was the only one not accepted by the Legislative Commission and became an amendment to the minority, consisted in adding the words "with Lech Wałęęsą" at the head of the word "Solidarity." The following amendment, No 5, was accepted in the following version: after the second sentence of the second paragraph, the following sentence is added: "The price for defending society against violations of fundamental human rights, including freedom of association, has been paid by lawyers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 6: in the second sentence of the third paragraph, the words "Holy Father John Paul" II, whose subsequent pilgrimages are replaced by the words... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me...]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, the senator is now translating the text of the amendments. After that, you will vote without knowing what you are voting on.]] [[Oh, dear.]] [[Please...]] ...replaces the words "Pilgrimages of the Holy Father John Paul" I'm sorry, I'm happy with the seventh amendment, and there are 10 of them, so I hope you'll all hold out. In Amendment 7, also accepted by the Legislative Commission, the following sentence is added: "We express our gratitude to General Ryszard Kukliński for informing the United States, at the risk of his or her life, of preparing for martial law. Amendment 8, also accepted: in the third sentence, in which the words "all the nations of the world," are added the decimal words to the democratic parliaments of the countries, the ordinary people, and there is still a sentence inserted after this part without change. Amendment 9: In the third paragraph, an additional two names are introduced at the end of the third sentence in gratitude, and this is the case: in particular Zbigniew Brzeziński and Jan Nowak Jeziański. Also accepted amendment, which is currently number 10. This was amendment 5 earlier, but in this version it is already amendment 10. In the third paragraph, in the fifth sentence, the words "ideals' and "Solidarity' and the Church' as if they were being supplemented and replaced by the words "ideals' and "underground struggles' and "Solidarity' and "the Church'. This is how we made these amendments during the meeting of the Legislative Commission. Besides, I repeat, with this one proposal, one amendment, the rest was unanimously adopted and this one amendment constitutes a minority proposal. [[Thank you very much.]] Of course, I am asking for this resolution to be adopted today at our sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the committee, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have it on the spot?]] I don't know how long... As soon as it's done, yes, and as long as it's done... [[Shortly, of course.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u37	We have tabled an amendment to the minority, in the second paragraph, in the first sentence, after the words "Solidarity Solidarities" we add the words "Lech Wałęsą" at the head. I'd like to return the historical truth. First, Lech Wałęsa was then the chairman of the NSZZ Secondly, on 13 December, it involves the anniversary of the martial law, and the behaviour of Lech Wałęsa, who, once again, did not sign any document or agreement, so that we all survived... We are not talking about the earlier or later history of Lech Wałęsa, but about his behaviour or historical truth about Lech Wałęsa during the period of martial law. However, I ask you to support this amendment because, once again, it gives back the historical truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur Stanisław Gogacz still want to speak? During the second reading, the legislative proposals were tabled by Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Kazimierz Wind and Senator Jan Żaryn. Senator Stanisław Gogacz was the committee's rapporteur after first reading. Nobody. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such questions? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print No 324 X, and then in the adoption of the draft, in print No 324 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1, Senator Jan Rulewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 27 against, 49 against. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 1 was rejected. Amendment 2, including Senator Jan Rulewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 75 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 77 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4, Senator Piotr Ziientarski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted against, 27 against, 52 against. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 5, Senator Zbigniew Cichonia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 76 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6, Senator Kazimierz Wind. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 7, Senator Jan Zarin. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 74 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8, Senator Jan Rulewski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 80 senators voted, 78 in favour, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9, Senator Piotr Ziientarski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 73 for, 5 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 10, Senator Bogdan Klich. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 76 in favour, three abstentions. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 10, Senator Bogdan Klich, has been accepted. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 80 senators voted, 76 for, 4 abstained, no one opposed. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in Poland. [[Applause]] Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that we delete item 12 from the agenda. second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits. The Commission asked the Government to present its position on this matter. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I would like to remind you that I would like to ask for the deletion from the agenda of item 12: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Teacher Compensation Benefits. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that you change the order of consideration of the third point: the Law on special arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Act for 2017 and its examination tomorrow, Wednesday, at 10 a.m.; and the fourth paragraph: the Act on the amendment of the Retail Tax Act, we will proceed with its consideration in the course of the proceedings. We will now proceed to point five: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal in its entirety. Thank you very much. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 322 and the committee report In print No 322 A. I would like to ask Senator Bogusława Orzechowska to submit a report to the committee. Mrs. Marshal? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u39	Why don't we wait a little longer... I ask you, Senator, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission examined at its meeting the Law of 4 November 2016 amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws contained in Senate printing No 322. The aim of this law is to restore the existing rules for the financing of vaccines for compulsory preventive vaccination from the State budget. The National Health Fund's funding has been discontinued; entry is scheduled for January 1st... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet because you can't hear the rapporteur's senator.]] ...the entry into force from 1 January 2017 of this method of financing. The reason for returning to the rules on funding from the State budget and the purchase of vaccines under the compulsory preventive vaccination programme is the restoration of the State's responsibility for health policy, including in particular preventive measures, as preventive vaccination is part of this activity, implemented by the State in accordance with Article. 68 constitutions, and serve to protect public health. The second point is the waiver of claims by the NFZ for benefits granted under the POZ. The Act introduces amendments to ensure that a person who benefits from primary healthcare benefits does not bear the costs of providing it even if there are difficulties in confirming his or her right to healthcare. The third important point of the change is to create the possibility of a retroactive notification for health insurance. The proceedings shall not be initiated or terminated on the date of entry into force of the proposed law of the proceedings referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 18, this is proceedings for reimbursement of the costs of health care services. The fourth point is to exempt providers from the obligation to submit data on waiting lists to the health information system. This is due to a change in the concept of the implementation of the electronic platform for the collection, analysis and sharing of digital resources on medical events; in particular, to postpone the deadline for making e-learning available to users. The fifth point is to amend the law on the prevention and control of infections and infectious diseases in humans. It is proposed to amend the deadline for notification by the Chief Health Officer of the preventive vaccination programme. That deadline was set at 31 October of the year preceding the implementation of the programme. During the legislative work there were numerous discussions, and there were ministers' statements. However, since the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws makes significant changes, I request that it be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Blackbay, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! In her statement, the senator said that this decision to be made was to restore the role of the state in overseeing the vaccination problem. Would you mind explaining that? Second question... That depends on what you say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u43	You're welcome. [[That's one question, isn't it?]] Yes, please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u44	The restoration is that... Since 1 January 2017, the National Health Fund has been planning to finance these benefits. The point is that the Ministry is responsible for health policy, and the Ministry will finance it. So the health fund will not be subject to additional vaccination funding. This is about vaccines.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u45	Senator, you have one more question, right? You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! As I understand it from you, the restoration is that the Minister will have the money. Yes? Is that how you understand... That's part of what we discussed at the committee meeting. The National Health Fund is part of the policy of the Polish state and in my opinion it is not possible to say that the NFZ is some kind of agenda, no one knows who. Each Minister of Health has a huge impact on what is happening in the NFZ, etc. So, one more time... If it only involves the fact that the money will be in the ministry, it's okay, but if you're saying that now the Polish government will have direct supervision of this problem, it would be a little messed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u47	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u48	The point is that the National Health Fund would need some of the money that it gets in its budget, additionally allocated to vaccinations. So far these vaccinations have been funded by the Ministry. The Ministry still wants to finance these vaccinations, so the National Health Fund, which it has at its disposal, will be able to spend on other benefits, will not have to take the money out of this pool for vaccines.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. There you go. And then you're a marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u50	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question about the committee's work on the issue of uninsured settlement. There is an opinion of the Supreme Court on this law, in which, I would say, it is clearly stated that in this way the universal free right to basic healthcare has been introduced. And further: in this context, it should be noted that the solution that is more appropriate from the point of view of legislative technology would be a clear indication, e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 Act on healthcare benefits, that the right to benefits of the POZ is free of charge and without connection with the possession of the status of the recipient, and not to regulate this very important issue in an extremely extensive, currently 23 paragraphs, art. 50. I mean, isn't it easier to write it down, because de facto, regardless of whether or not someone is insured, they get the full right to benefits. Like the senator, the doctor and I know, these people were actually treated anyway. At the moment this has been codified legally, but in an extremely complicated way, and it is possible, as the Supreme Court suggests, from the point of view of legislative technology to make it simpler.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u51	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u52	The extension of this article was not discussed by the committee. Both concern the same, i.e. the possibility of access to free benefits for every Polish citizen, which is guaranteed in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u53	Thank you very much. And Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go, Mr. Marshal. And then there's Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, is it developing or is there an anti-vaccine movement? Can you tell us how vaccination is related to this movement, whether vaccination is decreasing, increasing, or at the same level? It's about prognosis. [[It's a matter of insignificance...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u55	Please, Senator, if this was the subject of the committee's deliberations... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u56	The issue of immunity was not a subject of discussion, it was mentioned in the context of detailed data. But there was a conversation about anti-vaccine movements. There was also a discussion that vaccination is a way to combat infectious diseases, and it is a way to combat those diseases that pose a risk and for which there is no treatment. Anti-vaccine movements, and it was also mentioned, are not always based on medical facts. Many cases, which are addressed by representatives of anti-vaccine movements, are based on various types of articles or studies prepared by people who say that they are, for example. professors of some medical department, but they're not doctors. I'm familiar with these studies. These are either biotechnologists or other kinds of specialists, of course professors, educated people, but here is the question of how it is interpreted. As a practice, I can say that I deal with vaccinations in my work every day and explain, explaining to the patient what the purpose of carrying out vaccines is, often gives him grounds for getting vaccinated. It's said that some infectious diseases are invented by pharmaceutical companies. That's not true. I have a friend who's got Heine-Medin's disease. He's only in a wheelchair because he got this disease and there was no vaccination at the time. I had a friend last year who had Heine-Medin's disease. Vaccines against Jaundice are also very important, because due to frequency, availability... When people travel frequently, they protect against infection, a disease that causes serious complications. Just getting sick at the beginning doesn't always give you great symptoms, but very often later gives you important complications. There's a lot of talk in anti-vaccine movements, for example. on measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, which is a combined vaccine. This is the one supposedly responsible for autism. Originally, anti-vaccine movements against this vaccine appeared in France. Scientific studies have been carried out which have shown that the percentage of autism is exactly the same in vaccinated and non-vaccine subjects, but depended on the period of detection of the disease. Sometimes a disease occurs at a time when vaccination is given against the disease on the vaccination calendar. I'm gonna say that with the vaccines... The best proof that it's worth vaccinating is that I've vaccinated my children and I'm going to vaccinate my grandchildren, and I think this is a really important part of prevention. Besides, the cost of vaccines is much lower than the cost of treating patients. Haemophilus vaccination prevents many serious infections such as meningitis or pneumonia. The proposed pneumococcal vaccines will also prevent such infections. Since I have been working for almost 35 years, I remember a time when children with meningitis appeared on duty on average twice a month. At the moment it's lucky it's really rare, something like this happens once a year, and I work in the county city. Besides, you need to know about complications in children who have not been vaccinated. When it comes to measles, which parents sometimes fear so much, I'll say I remember children with post-op encephalitis who were practically sentenced to death just because their parents didn't inoculate them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Thomas Grodzki, and then you're a marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Doctor, I think there is no need for discussion among doctors about the need for vaccines, because we are all in agreement on this matter. Speaking of these statutory records, we're more concerned about whether the availability of vaccines will be better when they're in the ministry or when they're in the NFZ. The record saying that the budget is taking responsibility is a little confusing here, because the NFZ is also, I would say, the state budget, only in a slightly different form. I'm going back to the subject of insured and uninsured. The records we're offering show people, in fact, that it's not worth the insurance, because they're still gonna get custody. Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? I'm afraid the side effect here may be that people will no longer be insured, especially those who do business. They'll say I'm uninsured, but I'll still be taken care of. And there will be no sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u59	This was not discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u60	Thank you very much. You're still Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u61	Senator, thank you so much for clearing up the vaccine case. You're a doctor, you know the situation very well, and you know the dangers of not being vaccinated, especially children. I believe that this must be repeated in public many times. That's why I asked you this question. In order to hear a doctor say something about it, a doctor with long-standing practice. I'd like to ask you another question related to this matter. How do you feel about the fact that the public television editor Pawlicki is implementing a program that is an anti-vaccine program? Invites people Most of them are people who are in different anti-vaccine movements that justify it publicly. Information that vaccines are harmful is provided on public television. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u62	This was not discussed. [[Mr Marshal, I would like to say that we are asking questions about the discussion that took place at the committee meeting.]] [[Wasn't that the committee's discussion?]] It wasn't discussed. I can say... [[That's what I'm paying attention to.]] ...that I didn't see it myself, but I think that both those who support vaccines and those who oppose them should be allowed to discuss it, even so that they can be explained why they should be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. [[So there has to be balance in the discussion.]] Just like the senator said. [[Yes, there should be balance in the discussion.]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Doctor! I don't know, maybe it was that part of the session when you left. I just want to remind you... [[I wasn't leaving.]] ...that Professor Stanisławek and I believe somebody else raised the problem of this TV show at the committee meeting. We talked about the fact that public television isn't a one-sided transmission... [[...untrue information.]] Whether it's false or true, I'm not getting into it yet. We had a long discussion and we said we would have a committee meeting on this. The point is, there's no such thing as a show. If it's missing, Doctor, I'm reminding you. It's in the protocol.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u65	It may have slipped away, but there was no discussion about how to solve this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u66	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Katarzyna Głowala, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: No.]] Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister will not speak at this moment. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, and then you're Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u67	Minister, I'd like to ask you a question about the impact of anti-vaccine movements on implantation. What does it look like in Poland right now? Is it decreasing, and if so, in relation to which diseases? Isn't the situation changing? Is there a problem with that? Does the Minister see a problem in anti-vaccine movements that are so loud?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u68	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u69	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Health sees this problem, sees it, responds to it and tries to encourage the Polish society to vaccinate. I can say here that the entire department of health has been vaccinated against influenza. In addition, from 1 January 2017 we introduce mandatory vaccinations against pneumococci for all children born after 1 January 2017 from the second month. So far, pneumococcal vaccinations have only been for children at risk. It's called. evidence-based medicine. In Kielce the local government took its own initiative and vaccinated children. It undertook funding from the budget of the local government unit of vaccination against pneumococcal diseases. A pilot programme has been introduced and there has been a 40% reduction in hospitalisation, regardless of the age of patients, because vaccination also results in an improvement in the health of adults. The Ministry of Health recognises this problem and continues to encourage vaccination. I don't have any data on the effect of anti-vaccine movements on inoculation. However, even though there are raised voices about the harmfulness of vaccination, I am convinced that parents will still vaccinate children that they are aware of the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, the wording is as follows: vaccinations are mandatory. If a citizen fails to fulfil his obligation, he should be subject to some sanctions. What's it look like right now? Very often, some parents, as well as kindergarten educators, say that admission to kindergarten should be provided with the presentation of a health book with entries documenting the transition of compulsory vaccinations. It is known that an uninsulated child can be seriously ill, which can affect the health of other children, etc. What can the Minister say about this obligation and failure to fulfil this obligation, as well as possible future work in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u73	I can add a few more words to the previous question because I got an answer here. As far as implantability is concerned, this is 95%, so the situation is epidemicly safe. When it comes to soliciting vaccination, there are now fines for soliciting vaccination... [[For non-implantation.]] For non-implantation, I'm sorry. The Ministry of Health analysed the situation, checked what it looked like in other countries, those where vaccination is mandatory. Today, it is difficult for me to say whether or not we will be doing any work in this area, because, as I said, vaccination is more than 90%, which is an epidemicly safe situation. I'm sure the Minister of Health will make a decision if vaccination falls. Today, there is no need to impose as high sanctions as they apply in other countries of the European Union. But in general, if there was an epidemic situation, there would be an epidemic threat, the Minister of Health would probably take steps in that direction. [[Can I add one more?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u74	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u75	It's just that this epidemic threat is different for different types of disease. There are also some that are very dangerous to children, especially for young people. So perhaps it would be worthwhile to carry out an analysis and work, but some simply force this vaccination. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Katarzyna Głowala: We'll look into it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u76	Thank you very much. Now you're asking the marshal. Yes? Aren't we, Mr. Marshal? [[I give in to others. Later...]] Good. In that case, Mr President, Senator Waldemar Kraska, and then Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u77	Minister, in 2006 parents did not inoculate 2.5 in Poland. Thousands of children, in 2015 this number has already reached 16 thousand. So we can see that this number is growing from year to year. Do you, as the Ministry, plan any actions, I don't know, television, media, that would somehow encourage your parents to vaccinate? Because we know that the main concern of parents about vaccination is vaccination complications. It's true, isn't it? Parents identify many diseases with a history of... with a given vaccine. Are you planning some kind of action that will be supported by medical authorities that will overthrow these myths?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u78	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u79	As I said, above all, the management of the Ministry of Health... In particular, Minister Radziwił and the Commissioner were vaccinated in front of television cameras. And this is also an example that the Ministry of Health is doing something about it. The media campaign promoting vaccination is led primarily by the chief health inspector. And here as the organ that's responsible for the vaccination... there's a campaign here all the time to show the validity of the vaccination.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We talked about this a lot during the committee meeting, but I have a question for you. These anti-vaccine movements, I must say, are very strong, active, visible. And what you said to the President shows that they are also a success. I'm talking about anti-vaccine movements. Do you even talk to these anti-vaccine movements? Are you trying to talk to them or not, or just public vaccinations of the entire ministry are an important element of convincing Poles that vaccinations are important?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u82	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u83	I'll be honest with you, there haven't been any such conversations yet, but we don't rule them out. I think if... It must be an informed decision of the entire management. For now, we are taking other steps, such as promotional campaigns, media campaigns, etc., but it is not excluded, we do not exclude this possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u84	Would anybody else like to speak? Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u85	Minister, I would like to refer to a television programme run by one of the prominent public television journalists in which the transmission was anti-vaccine. I'm talking about editor Pavlicki and his show. In connection with this programme, has the Ministry submitted a request to the National Radio and Television Council? Because I think that if these situations remain unresponsive, they will repeat themselves. Public television can't do that. [[There hasn't been any censorship in a year.]] [[You have to separate censorship from breaking the law.]] And if it does such programs, it should separate the information from the comment, and it does not, not just in this case. Has the Ministry submitted a request to the National Radio and Television Council? [[Freedom of the media. Freedom of the media.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u86	The Minister of Health has not made such a request. [[Thank you. That's what I wanted to know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u87	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Minister, thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Minister, thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. The text of the Act is contained in print No 319 and the report of the Commission In print No 319 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u88	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject of this point is the Eastern Cross Act, the initiative of the Sejm and the Member, specifically Mr Michał Dworczyk. The Sejm passed this bill and sent it to the Senate. According to Mr.Michael Dworczyk, the Sejm passed it practically unanimously. 2 Senate committees took over this law: the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. On 14 November 2016, the Joint Committees held a meeting. The bill was presented by the applicant, or rather a delegate from the Sejm, that is, Mr Michał Dworczyk. Proposals for amendments were tabled during the discussion. It can be said that these amendments were twofold. Firstly, these were the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau, more technical, although also marked by substantive amendments, and secondly, I, as a senator and member of one of these committees, have tabled substantive amendments. And maybe I'll make these amendments one at a time. The main point of reference in the discussion was the first paragraph of the bill concerning the proposed order, the Eastern Cross. Most of the amendments referred to this paragraph. And then, in the following paragraphs, there were consequences. The first and the basic amendment concerned the deletion of the words "from 1937 to 1959" in the first subparagraph. Initiators of the Act considered that these dates are important from the point of view of the purpose of giving this distinction, giving it to Polish citizens of the Second Republic, but of the non-Polish nationality, and to foreigners, namely those who lived in the territories of the Eastern Kresów and the area of the Soviet Union in the years 1937-1959, and thus also during the period of the Second World War. And these extreme dates were supposed to justify the substantive choice of people to decorate. So, in short, it was a period since the anti-Polish operation in 1937, in which more than 110 thousand Poles, citizens of the Soviet Union, were killed, until 1959, i.e. the date formally ending the last wave of repatriation, among other things Polish soldiers from the Soviet Union. The amendment I tabled was intended to delete those dates. I've decided. And we all agreed later because it just so happens that this amendment was not subject to special discussions and was quickly adopted. In fact, they narrowed down the possibilities of awarding awards, which are worth giving to foreigners who served the Polish cause and protected Poles in various situations resulting from the complicated history of the 20th century in the wider East. And we have therefore proposed that these dates be deleted. I'll get back to you at the end of my speech. Amendment 2 concerns Article. 2 of the proposed draft law, specifically paragraph 2. 3. It is proposed to delete that paragraph. 3 because the same record is already in the existing law on awards and decorations. This entry, which already exists in the Orders and Awards Act, is specifically Article. In fact, 36 is in line with this legislative proposal. This amendment was a proposal from the Legislative Bureau, but we considered it appropriate. The same is true with Amendment 3. The term "legitimation" in Article. 4 shall be replaced by a letter confirming the award of the Cross. This is a purely technical amendment. Amendment 5. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 The terms "modes of procedure" shall be deleted if the President of the Republic of Poland decides to deprive the Cross. This is the consequence of Legislative Amendment No 2. This is written in the Orders and Awards Act, so this is how we align this law with the already existing Orders and Awards Act. This is irrelevant because we do not change the whole mode of broadcasting this order, and this mode is such that the leading party in preparing this distinction for a particular person is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which acts at the request of persons, institutions or various associations. But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not investigate this and will not apply to the President of the Republic of Poland, who gives the same Eastern Cross, without the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance. And this is the novel that's written here. Further consequences are already included in the existing legislation, so we considered it worth harmonising from a legislative point of view. It is similar with Amendment 6, which is purely technical. The terms of his legitimacy shall be replaced by the words of his legitimacy confirming the award of the Cross. Amendment 7 is not purely technical as it proposes deleting the words "list of proposals'. There is no regulation on the list of applications and, as it seems, there is no need for any State authority in this case either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the President of the Republic of Poland to issue a regulation which would create that list. It is therefore a legislative amendment, but with substance. Nor is there any clarity in this existing provision as to the purpose of providing such a list as would be included in the Regulation, so we considered that this list was not needed. In accordance with Amendment 8 in Article. 6 words shall also be added to keep the order resulting from the seniority of the awards and awards awarded and taking into account the public holidays and anniversaries. And it's a record that's kind of incorporated into the legislation that's going on so far... and I don't want to say, of course, that the technique of wearing this Eastern Cross, but the order in which it's worn by people who have more decorations. This is regulated and this sentence is intended to help, so to speak, with regard to the already existing regulation. Amendment 9 is also purely technical, legislative: Article 9 7 after the words "with the exception of Article." The words "and Article" are added, of course, to the remaining text. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Orders and Awards Act, of course, is the consequence of the deletion of the paragraph. Three in this bill. If we're gonna delete him, and we're actually referring to the article. 36, that amendment is the reference to Article. 36. And the last amendment, Amendment 10: the annex to the Act is replaced by the following:... this annex contains an image of the order on which the original version was dated 1937/1959. In connection with Amendment No 1 in this version, which we have after the committee's findings, this Cross is deprived of these dates. All these amendments I have said have, as I recall, been adopted unanimously and have not caused any problems. However, during the discussion, which began practically after the vote, we had doubts about the consequences of deleting the dates in the article. 1 and no other dates. It's a pick-up from the Polonia Bureau, Mr. Vice Principal, if I recall. That question, as it seems, actually made sense. Therefore, regardless of the state which I am presenting at the moment And this is, as I said, 14 November 2016, the situation after the committee's deliberations, in the further part of our deliberations, I will ask for additional amendments, which will specifically address this problem in the article. 1. During the meeting, the case was raised but without consequences in the form of proposals. At that time, we did not consider it appropriate to respond to them or to do so. Today I know that this gentleman from our Polish Office was clearly right and had to lean on it, i.e. on the new wording of Article. 1, in view of the fact that after the date has been deleted in this article, there is the impression that to this day, people who help Poles and are in the Eastern Kreses of I and II of the Republic or in the former Soviet Union, people who rescue Poles or save in the face of various persecutions, this Eastern Cross belongs. And that's the problem that needs to be solved somehow. But it is at the next part of the debate, that is, in the discussion, that I will make these amendments. Thank you very much... It's a report... [[Thank you very much.]] I'm sorry I've been talking for so long, but I think it's exhausting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any questions for the senator? You're welcome, Senator, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u90	Senator rapporteur, I, too, have prepared an amendment on the elimination of this provision. But I want to find out what criteria the legislators were following, that they set such dates. I understand 1937. It's so-called. anti-Polish action. But 1959? Why the Cessar of 1959? In 1953 Stalin died, in 1955 Beria was shot, and in 1956, at the 20th convention, there was a paper by Khrushchev, which revealed Stalin's crimes. [[The habits are still there.]] Why this date? Why 1959? And the question to you is, what do you think we should use here? 'Cause in fact, I think there's a way to define... [[Yes.]] This article does not show that this includes today. We're writing about the Soviet Union, you like the Soviet Union... [[It's about the ex-boyfriend.]] Ex-boyfriend. I prefer the former Soviet Union, which was... [[Can I answer that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u91	Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for being here, too. In my opinion, you're clearly right to say that these dates, however they may be explained... They, as I said, de facto restrict the use of this order, i.e. from a certain gratitude to the dead and living people who helped us. As I said, the date of 1937 is the beginning of the anti-Polish action, the actual date, but not including all those who, for example. in Kazakhstan they helped Poles, when about 80 thousand of them were there a year earlier, in 1936. We would not cover a very serious territorial and human scope with these decorations, and it would, in my opinion, be a substantive and unnecessary error... Hence, the date of 1937 seems weak. The date 1959 also has, as I said, a logical justification in the sense that in 1955 they started in the Soviet Union and then also in Poland, in the Polish People's Republic, legal changes concerning the introduction of amnesty. Amnesty in the Soviet Union since 1955 began to include among others. these Poles Not only Poles, because of course also representatives of other nationalities Who found themselves in the Soviet lagoons after the storm or under other circumstances, but at the interface of war and peace, at the official interface of war and peace, because of the new invader... Clearly, we were still in war conditions, at least if we identify with the values of the underworld of independence. Poles, i.e. mainly soldiers, officers of the National Army, began returning to Poland practically from the end of 1955; the last parties were to arrive and arrive in Poland until 1959 in a formal sense, and really did not... The date 1959 is artificial in the sense that it again narrows down the possibility of further indication, especially in the case of the mentioned Kazakhstan or Far-Siberia environments, specific people who helped Poles, e.g. to those who were arrested again on the second Khrushchevsky night, which is after 1958. I mean, for example, a very famous, blessed priest Władysław Bukowiński, who lasted in Kazakhstan until 1974. He was given comprehensive help there First of all, it was those inhabitants who benefited from his pastoral aid. These people have been excluded from the circle... It is not possible to give them this order if we accept the date 1959. In short, each date is artificial, because it is completely unnecessary to exclude someone, and it is known that on the one hand it is a meeting with totalitarianism of Bolshevik-Soviet, which lasted since 1917 practically to dissolve the Soviet Union, i.e. until 1991, and on the other hand we want to honor those who lived on the borders of Poland and found themselves under Soviet occupation, and under German occupation in the years 1941 and 1944. Because the German occupation in this case covered a shorter period than the existence of the Soviet occupation or domination, or the acquisition of these areas by the Soviet Union. Therefore, I will insist that these dates be changed, but on the other hand, To insert dates that simply determine the period of existence of the Soviet Union from the Bolshevik times until the collapse of this state structure, and thus cure the problem of possible ambiguity in terms of understanding the article. 1. Because I agree with you, Mr. Marshal, that you can read this article, so to speak, positively and then everyone knows what it is, and you don't have to add dates, but on the other hand there may be someone rude who doesn't want ours, yours and my intentions to acknowledge. And the dates we're talking about are supposed to make it easier for him to polite.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I'd just like you to clarify... So that later the application of this law does not give rise to any difficulties of interpretation. And perhaps... If you have any amendments related to the answer to the questions I am about to ask, I would also ask you to present how it should look, in your opinion, after these amendments. The first point is to determine the location. Here we have actually 3 designations, 3 terms: the former Eastern Kresy of the first Polish Republic, the former Eastern Kresy of the second Polish Republic and the former Soviet Union. There's still a consistency here. Eastern Kresy of the first and second Republic. So you should read it together, please note. If anything, it should be either If we want it to be this or this. Because it may be that there may be Eastern Kreski and the Republic of Poland, which are not Eastern Kreski II of the Republic. Isn't there supposed to be a coherent or something? But that's another matter. The question is: why this First Republic, if it is to be located in the Soviet Union anyway? It's in accordance with the bill. Is it possible that it was an area that belonged to the Eastern Kresów and the Republic of Poland and not to the Soviet Union? [[It didn't belong to the other...]] That, too, but it wasn't part of the Soviet Union. Because, as I say, we're talking about three areas. The question is, do they overlap or are they disconnected? And then there's this wretched coincidence, or... Well, I'd rather be orbing. Because then it would be more general. But it's up to you... The second point is a matter of time. If you'd thought about it and said... I would like to hear clearly whether this is about the time of the formation, i.e. Soviet Union or specific years. What will this be made of, or for years, or the existence of a given institution, actually a given country? The third point concerns terminology, which is set out in Article. 2 (2) 1. Because it says that we give this award to people of a non-Polish nationality In other words, as I understand it, you will have to show that you are a national other than Polish. But at the same time, those who helped Poles or Polish citizens. Is this really how it's supposed to be formulated? So Polish citizens, but also Poles who were never Polish citizens, for example, could not be Polish citizens? Is that what this is about? And last question: who makes the request? Here is also private persons. I mean, the minister, on the initiative of... and here are the individual institutions and we are also talking about private individuals. The question is: does this also apply to foreigners? Can foreigners, non-Polish people, come up with an initiative to give such a Cross? I mean, private people. Because please note that this is possible according to the above-mentioned record. And I'm really gonna ask you one last question. The cross is an honorary award, and there are no profits in it except that it is an honorary award. But don't you think there might be some way to raise the rank of this Cross, this distinction, by adding it in connection with its assignment, of course this is not about material issues. Is it just a profit? What kind of profit could that be? Like... Just so we're clear, he doesn't go here... [[Mr. Senator, how about...]] Last phrase. Then I won't talk to you again. [[Because you've been asking for a long time, so... here you go.]] Maybe those who have helped Poles and who deserve this high award, give the powers they have for those who have the Polish Charter? It's not about giving them the Polish Charter, it's about giving them similar permissions. That is: Poland believes that you have helped our citizens, so it gives you the powers that those who have the Polish Charter have.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Professor, answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, all of these questions are well-founded. A large part of them fell during the committee meeting, although perhaps not in the same form. And so art. 1 contains various terms, both territorial and state, also applies to this organism of the state, or the Soviet Union, because it concerns areas that were not always under the power of the Soviet Union, as you rightly pointed out. Like I said, it's the years 1941 and 1944, when... [[Mrs. Marshal, finish up.]] [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] ...the territory of the Polish borders of the Second Republic... [[But it's now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u97	I'm very sorry, sir, but... [[All right, let's take a five-minute break.]] ...at this point, I have to announce a five-minute break. [[I'd like you to finish your statement, senator.]] [[But there's a very urgent senior convention. He'll finish after the break.]] After the break, the senator will return to that question. [[Good.]] Thank you very much. Time-out until 2:05 p.m., which means 8 minutes time-out. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 57 to 14 minutes 09]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. I ask Senator Jan Żaryn, Senator of the rapporteur, to answer the questions of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, then I will answer the first question. Art. 1 actually covers the Eastern Ends of I and II of the Republic of Poland. You're suggesting that it would be better, even if you wanted to embrace this territory not only together, but also separately... It is both about the First Republic, about the Eastern Kresa, which did not enter the Second Republic, and which were in the area of the Soviet Union, as well as the area of the Soviet Union. Why wasn't the Soviet Union left behind and this part called the Eastern Ends is isolated? As I said before, this is because there was no continuity of the rule of the Soviet Union over these areas, especially in the years 1937 and 1959, because during the period 1941 and 1944 these areas were under German occupation. And yet we want to make potential beneficiaries of the Eastern Cross also those who gave help to Poles at that time. It is mainly about the righteous Ukrainians who can be considered here in a special way. Thus, the Eastern Cross is in a sense an area of Polish domination in historical memory. We want in different places on this broad The territorial scale of memory shall be taken into account by all who could potentially be beneficiaries of that Cross. Perhaps these records could be better, so we will continue to work on the article. It will undoubtedly change. We also discussed the issue of non-Polish nationality. It seems like we're gonna leave it as it is for now, remembering that in the article. 3 (1) (a) 2 refers to the mode of identifying a person to be awarded, and this mode is such that the only body which is directly appointed to do so is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who does so at the request of very different entities, including individuals. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is a party which, as a rule, triggers the continuation of this procedure, but is bound by the positive opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. At best, there may be doubt... Well, logically, there is a doubt about what the entities applying to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are going to do if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not support their application, but for some reason it will stop it, e.g. after the negative opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance. Those applicants really don't have any way of securing their interests here. Therefore, the definition of a non-Polish nationality is de facto left to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Institute of National Remembrance. In practice, the IPN will determine whether the person is Polish or not. In the mode, so to speak, historical, not any other, of course. You also asked about profits. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The Poles on the proposed order are an obvious profit. The question is, could we add any additional profits in the form of diplomas or other, so to speak, proof of saving Poles. This is undoubtedly to be considered, but the Sejm legislature did not foresee such solutions and we did not do it at all, it was not the subject of our reflection. But there is no doubt that reflection is appropriate. So much for the questions that have been asked. That's all of them, isn't it? If I remember...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u99	Thank you very much. And Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have such a question for the senator: wouldn't it be good that the day of giving these decorations is July 11th, when we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance of Passion of Kresowians? I say 'Kresowian', but the point is that this day is somehow enriched by such an event as the giving of this Eastern Cross. Could we write that down in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u101	Yeah, yeah... May I, Mrs. Marshal? Thank you, Senator. It seems to me that such a statutory record would not only enter a space worth leaving another entity. I'll tell him which one, of course. But we would also unnecessarily restrict it. This entity, of course, is the President of the Republic, who, as part of his historical policy, cultivated by the President's law firm and himself, should in fact have a certain ability to set the best dates for the circumstances involved in the award procedure. And I think, given the width of the broadcasting of this order, any date would be narrower. In turn, 40 dates would be appropriate; of course, there is no point in writing them all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u102	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to... Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u103	Senator rapporteur, this seems to be a simple act... [[It's not.]] ...but it's not simple, it's quite complicated. [[Yes, sir.]] I have a question for you. Is according to this entry, which is in the article. 1, will it be possible to award awards to people who helped Polish citizens, Poles in the area of present Lithuania? Part of Lithuania was part of the territory of Poland. This part is not covered by the concept of "Eastern Zones'. [[Includes.]] No. That's one thing. Secondly, I will also have a question for the Foreign Minister. How will the Lithuanians react to this if we want to embrace the concept of the Eastern Ends as well as the present Lithuania? I see a problem here. I don't know how to write it right now... [[Please, Mr. Senator...]] And it doesn't include... Why are we gonna have a problem? Because Lithuania does not recognize that it was part of the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u104	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u105	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, thank you for asking. Well, it's pretty clear to me. I mean historically East Ends and the Republic of Poland, because this is what we are talking about, of course these are the lands of the Crowns of the Kingdom of Poland along with this part Kiev's big area After the Lublin Union, it was also on the territory of the Crown and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. After the Lublin Union, or after 1569, it was more closely integrated into the Crown. Both of these EU countries functioned until the time of the partitions. By the Eastern End we call all these lands, which as a result of the first, second and third cuttings were found in the territory of the Tsar Russia. Therefore, they did not include the Eastern Kresów, at least in the imagination of Wincenty Pol, which introduced this term to us in the literature at all. In the Mohort, his wonderful poems this love for the Kres has been... She caused this song to be written by him. He undoubtedly understood them so, i.e. the first, second and third partition of Poland, lands about to today's eastern border, i.e. Zagużańskie, which were in the territory of the Tsar Russia. Of course, today we see Kresa more widely, the concept of the Eastern Kresas also includes those lands which were under Austrian control or later, after conversion, under the control of Austro-Hungarian and to which Russia could claim, but never had them, i.e. Eastern Galicia, in short, and the Soviet Union took over them under the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact in 1939. In our memory, and we are no longer Wincenty Polem, we have the experience of the entire 20th century, the concept of Eastern Kresów I and II of the Republic are also territories of Eastern Galicia. And so we understand them geographically and historically today. It is also, of course, Lithuania in the part in which it was located in the territory of the First Republic, and it so happens that all of Lithuania is territorially located in the Kresy, because even Inflanty, including Estonia, all of this falls within the concept of Eastern Kresów I and II of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u106	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Today we have Minister Marek Ziółkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Yes, Mrs Marshal.]] You're welcome. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u107	Good morning, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you kindly for the opportunity to speak. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on whose behalf I wish to speak, supports this bill. And a few words about how we would like to justify this support. At the moment there is no state award for merits for people of nationalities other than Polish people helping Poles injured or oppressed in the East. The existing Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland is an award for outstanding merits located for cooperation between nations and is given to foreigners and foreign Polish citizens who have made an outstanding contribution to international cooperation and cooperation between the Republic of Poland and other countries and nations, so it has a slightly different purpose. Established by law of 2003 the Cross of Sibir exiles as an expression of the national memory of Polish citizens deported from 1939 to Siberia, to Kazakhstan, and northern Russia is given to people who had Polish citizenship at the time of deportation, and thus also covers a different range. Historical dialogue with our partners in the East, although successful, is still very complicated. In its course, we sometimes formulate various risky generalizations concerning the actions of our neighbours' ancestors. They are often perceived as critical of modern times. It is therefore extremely important to point out positive examples of the behaviour of Belarusians, Russians or Ukrainians towards Poles at a time when our fellow countrymen were subject to various persecutions, and helping them was linked to a deadly risk. Through the award of the deserved Eastern Cross we gain an important image instrument in our historical policy, promoting mutual friendly attitudes of the representatives of neighbouring nations. The introduction of this award and the practice of its broadcasting on Polish-Ukrainian relations may have a particularly important positive impact. In view of the elements of the law mentioned by me, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs welcomes the draft law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross and recommends the continuation of the work on the project. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz volunteered? Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u109	Yeah, I volunteered. Minister, this question concerns the transmission of this Cross on the territory of the present Lithuania. Is Lithuania... You had contact with the Lithuanian government, with the Lithuanians. Is Lithuania one of... otherwise: did Lithuania consider it to be part of the Soviet Union? That's the first question. Second question: does Lithuania agree to include its country in the East? I know there were even interventions when it came to the East Department, which was supposed to be taking care of Lithuania. Therefore, will this not cause any negative action by the current Lithuanian Government or the Lithuanian Parliament?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u111	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. Lithuania did not actually consider itself part of the Soviet Union, but it is like a statement or an ex post policy when Lithuania actually regained its independence in 1990... Well, I would like to point out that, for example. After 1945, the United States actually applied the policy of not recognising the Soviet annexation of the Baltic States, and Lithuania also based these declarations upon regaining independence. Does Lithuania belong to the East? This question also applies to several other countries. From time to time, the Ukrainian side also pretended to move Ukraine to the Department of Central or Western Europe, but these are... It happens sometimes. In the case of our ministry, Lithuania is now territorially included in the scope of the European Policy Department. But I'm paying attention to this paradox. He is also a historical, geographic, that Lithuania has a Western partner, Russia, which... and symbolically Russia we consider to be the East, so that it's... Well, there are also situations that history brings, and Lithuania also has to deal with that. As for this possible bill, the bill, we see no reason to agree or inform any of our neighbours about this project. First of all, the intention of the bill is extremely noble. Secondly, any procedure for awarding awards must take into account the international custom of asking the ministry of the country concerned first whether its citizen can be rewarded with an award or another country's award. It's used. We observe this, we observe other countries, as well as our neighbours from the East, Russia or Ukraine. Indeed, from time to time we are asked and by the President of the Republic of Poland's law firm's protocol answers whether we really agree to the award. So that this way each country will have to be asked if we begin to seek such a decoration. Even after it has been granted, we really must ask the country concerned for permission. In this mode, the Lithuanian party may consider that it is for precisely such reasons as the marshal mentioned, that it is not appropriate to mark one or another citizen. But now it's a little premature... I would also like to refer, if possible, to the discussion on the possible addition to the honouring of privileges similar to those of the Polish Charter. It is, of course, the discussion and progress of the bill that depends on whether or not this subject is available at all. We note that at the moment, the state of these privileges We're so quick to judge. And the addition of any privileges from this state does not cause any controversy. However, in accordance with the amendments to the Polish Charter Act, and they enter into force in January, this package of privileges will expand considerably and will be a relatively fast path of giving Polish citizenship. And this is a more complicated issue. In advance of a bit of discussion, I will say that in this case probably the Ministry, if asked, will prepare a separate opinion. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. [[May I?]] In a moment, Mr. Marshal. I'll read the message now. I'll be adjourned at 3:00 p.m. by 6:00 p.m. After the interruption, we will proceed with the next items on the agenda. I propose a change in the order of examination of paragraph seven: the Act amending the Pension and Pensions Act from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal has a question. Yes? You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u113	Yes. I have a question because the concept of the East End is a more literary rather than geographical concept. How will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs define the term "Eastern Zones" after this law? Because I understand that the Second Commonwealth, the First Commonwealth, the Soviet Union or the Soviet Union What Senator Zaryn calls him It's also a certain territory. And the question is about the East End.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u114	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u115	Thank you. Undoubtedly, as the rapporteur stressed and informed, it is both a literary and a political term, but it does not strictly define state entities. Given that this term is currently only in the preamble to moral obligations, we do not see the basis for interpreting this term as having direct consequences in the form of deriving geographical or political units from this term. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u116	Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u117	Minister, I would like to point out that this term is not in the preamble, but in the article. 1, which defines the territory covered by that law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u118	Are there any more questions for the Minister? There's no... [[Yes.]] Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo, Minister, I have two questions. The first concerns what I have already called here, namely the addition of an honorary award for certain powers. It does not have to be all permissions from the Polish Charter, e.g. Giving citizenship, but some of these powers could be. Therefore, I would ask for a written opinion, or some permissions from the Polish Charter, and if so, which, after all, to these few people 'Cause they're gonna be individuals, they're not gonna be thousands or tens of thousands of people. This, let's call them the Righteous Among the Nations, but also in relation to Poles... those who supported Poles, Polish citizens during the most difficult time... Could the Polish state now perhaps help some of these people on the one hand as if they were not very invasive, and on the other hand not involving themselves, let's say to ourselves: What's the big cost? In short, whether certain rights from the Polish Charter should not be made available to those people of the non-Polish nationality, of course living, who previously deserved to defend Poles, by the way... But, of course, not on the occasion of this amendment, but possibly... I mean, not now, not by the way of this bill, but possibly by the way of an amendment. That's one thing. That's something to think about. And second question... [[I understand the senator is asking for an answer in writing. Yes?]] Yeah, in writing, because that's something to think about. Here, of course, the Minister must consult with various people in the Ministry. The second question concerns the Eastern Ends. Well, I've already witnessed, but not in the Senate, but in the Seym, in years, imagine, 2001/2005, trying to define... the legal definition of what the Recovered Lands are. We all know what Lands Recovered are, we use that term. Few of this, they physically existed, was the Ministry of the Recovered Lands, but there was no legal definition of Recovered Lands. It appeared probably only in 2003, as I recall, in 2001 and 2005. I understand that there is no legal definition of the East End, so it's even more a blurry name. The question is, should this name "Eastern Zones" be defined for the purposes of this law? If so, how? On the basis of a regulation issued, I do not know, for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, this is already a matter for discussion. Or for an IPN that would point out... And it would compare with what the I.P.N. would say about what the East Ends are... And that would go into our legal order, and perhaps it would be useful for other laws. Or are we just gonna leave this and implement this law on a practice basis? It is the opinion of the IPN that will determine whether or not a person should act and assist in the area of the Eastern Kresów or not, without defining the Kresów. How do you think that should be done?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u120	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u121	Thank you kindly. On a possible list of privileges, of course, we are ready to work with both the initiators of the bill and the Senate committees. We will try to prepare some kind of more compact opinion, but first we will expect from the initiators, also from the Senate, actually decisions or initiatives, whether any set of privileges similar to those of the Polish Charter or others, should be included in this law. Well, that's gonna be an analysis. In this case it should be specified not only a possible set of privileges, I believe, but also the consequences of its implementation for the bill and for the very nature of the award should be specified. That would be another product, also legal-political. So that we cannot present an opinion and attach it to the bill, if we do not know the political decision, we do not know whether the Senate or the Sejm will decide that indeed the award should be accompanied by a set of goods or privileges. But we're prepared to cooperate. Thank you so much for reminding me of this analogy with the Recovered Lands. I also remember from my work that from time to time our minister defines one country or another as a war zone. In fact, it is not easy in the Polish law to find this term, but we use it. Iraq or Afghanistan is referred to as such a zone. Sometimes these aren't easy terms. In the case of this deadline and this law, I declare, if we can carry out an additional analysis and check whether it can actually be used in circulation and leave it to applicants, the IPN and the Minister to assess whether the person actually notified qualifies, in accordance with the criteria of the Act, to... and only then to proceed, and finally to accept the opinion, sometimes negative, of the country whose citizen would be honoured with such a distinction. You can do things like this, or you can define... I suppose it will not be obvious that such a definition will be built, but we can undertake such a task if we consider it necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u122	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Thank you.]] Will the Minister give a written reply to the senator? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: Yes, yes.]] We can count on it, all right. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Czesław Ryszka, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion so far shows that the establishment of this Cross on the one hand is an important event, something very important, but on the other hand we see various nuances, including political and diplomatic, which should be clarified in this law. Art is very important. 1 passed law, which I will cite without dates: fulfilling a moral obligation to people who helped Poles in the former Eastern Kreses of I and II of the Republic of Poland and in the areas of the former Soviet Union and rescued them in the face of persecution and genocide, risking their lives and their families, the award of the Eastern Cross, hereinafter referred to as "the Cross," is established as a token of gratitude and an expression of respect and memory of these people. It would seem that in this article there is everything that is most important, because these words contain the whole idea of this distinction, i.e. gratitude and respect for those foreigners who saved Poles in the Eastern Cartoons, i.e. for the Russians, Kazakhs, Uzbeks, Ukrainians, by word, for all those who saved their neighbors, Polish citizens, risking their lives and their families. And the memory of them. There is no restriction on citizenship in the Act, there are no enumeratively listed countries whose citizens can be marked, which is actually a very good solution, because this allows for the inclusion of all... Some of them may even live in the United States, etc. The award is given by the President, and the initiative is given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to which various institutions, environments, people, after consulting the Institute of National Remembrance, as it was said. And this is also very important, because the Institute of National Remembrance cooperates with its counterparts in practically all countries of the former Soviet Union, collects various documents, descriptions, witness reports, statements of people who have memorized various facts, etc., so that, in the event of an application for the award of a given person... The Senators, the Polish people in the Eastern Kresas, as we understand them widely, passed through the ghetto. During the years of the Soviet Union Poles experienced terrible terror, huge repression and harassment. Called here earlier in 1937 as this time-cure... If such an amendment is voted out, we will skip the years mentioned here. And during this operation, 111 thousand Poles were shot and tens of thousands were subjected to cruel repression in their places of residence. Plus, there's a bunch of scoops, there's a bunch of scoops, there's a bunch of scoops, After 17 September 1939, after the attack of the Soviet Union on the Second Republic, similar repressions, similar sufferings were subjected to our compatriots living in the Eastern Voivodeship of the Second Republic. The same was true during the German terror in these areas. To all this one should add genocide carried out by Ukrainian nationalists in Poles living in Volyn and south-eastern voivodships. I think the real blessing of fate was that in these tragic years there were people who risked their lives helping their Polish neighbors. The Polish state has not officially thanked these people so far. The award of the Eastern Cross is to be a kind of repayment of moral debt towards all those who have shown, to say the easiest, but most precisely, humanity towards their Polish neighbours. But that's not the only thing about this award. I believe that the intention of the initiators, or members of the Polish Sejm, is also to remind about the Polish heritage in the Eastern Kresów, of all that is connected with it. . about multicultural and tolerant Poland, in which many nations lived friendly and brotherly. The establishment of the Eastern Cross is certainly an expected historical gesture, part of a historical narrative built on the truth. I think this fits well into the historical policy of Law and Justice, and also into the activities of President Andrzej Duda, among others. on restoring memory, showing the truth about Polish heroes and difficult fates of our homeland. Very important in this law is the record of postmortem giving the Cross to deserved persons. Almost 100 years have passed since the October Revolution, so the possibility of giving the Cross to the dead is very important. Giving this award will enable us to build good relations with neighboring nations. It is also appropriate to write that the Cross can be deprived when its holder behaves in a manner unworthy of the Republic of Poland or Poles. This valuable initiative fits well into the attitude of the holy memory of President Lech Kaczyński, who began his visit to Katyn in 2007 with visit to the Orthodox cemetery, the Russian, Ukrainian and Jewish cemetery victims of communist totalitarianism. Let me remind you that the president said such words at the time: we Poles know that the nations of the East The Russian people, the Ukrainian people, like the Polish people, were victims of communist barbarism; we do not look at the Russians, the Ukrainians as perpetrators of communist barbarism, but we also look at them as victims of this terrible, totalitarian system. Assessment of this it is the spirit of the initiative to award the Eastern Cross, I am convinced that it will contribute to reconciliation between the Polish people and the neighbours in the East, with emphasis that behind the crime of genocide and a number of other tragic events there were not nations, but criminal individuals and groups. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. And I'm gonna ask Senator Jan Zarin to speak. [[Boss, you're not gonna make it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u125	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! Of course, it seems to me that there is nothing to repeat too often this phrase, that Polish historical policy has been changing for a year by taking over power by the formation of Law and Justice, but it is clearly necessary to remember this sometimes. And certainly the establishment of the Eastern Cross fits on the one hand in this promotion of Polishness, and on the other hand in what we call the act of gratitude. Of course, we need to see both of these elements. However, I would like to focus mainly on the specific amendments that I would like to make to this proposal. Without a doubt, these amendments concern mainly Article. 1. Before I talk about them, I just want to remind you that I thought I defined the concept of the East Cresses, and I address it to your marshal, and to the Minister. It's pretty precise. That is, these are lands which were engulfed in the first, second and third partition of the First Republic by the Tsar Russia, and those which were found in the 19th century east of the border of the Kingdom of Poland. These are the Kresa within the meaning of Wincente Pole and the entire Polish formation of the nineteenth century, subsequent generations. We also include the lands of Eastern Galicia, which were in the Second Republic of Poland and which in 1939 were first occupied by the Soviets, and since 1944 were found in the Soviets. Thus, in historical literature we use the concepts of the north-eastern and south-eastern borders, combining these two historical realities. And this understanding of the Ends is evident in the case of maps used in teaching the subject history in secondary and secondary schools. And no one has any particular doubts as to how in a territorial sense to define the term "Cress." I've been trying to articulate it here, too. I am now moving on to concrete amendments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1... And here I thank you for the words of Senator Ryszka, because I also generally like this article because of its content, pronunciation. There is basically all that is to be said there, as we would like to say in it. Therefore, in the name of respect for the initiators of the establishment of the Eastern Cross, I tried to minimize the extent of interference. And my proposal is to first of all delete two words, i.e. the word of the former and the word of the former, and that instead of the years of the 1937 and 1959, or rather instead without those years, because we are at this stage, introduce the years of the 1917 and 1991. And it seems to me that this is an opportunity to limit the possibility of a different understanding of this record than in accordance with the intention of the original legislature, the Sejm, which sent this draft law to the Senate. It seems to me that while respecting this original initiator, it is worth improving, but there is also no need to interfere too far. This, of course, is followed by another amendment, which is to the annex, which would also change. On the Cross would be these new dates, 1917.1991. These are the four amendments that bind together. Five o'clock. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in the third sentence, the passage without dates would be replaced by the words: 1917 and 1991. I have one more proposal for a legislative change. Namely, it seems that in the article. The second paragraph may be deleted. 2, i.e. the sentence "Cross" can be postmortem because if we are And we've already done that. To refer to the current Orders and Awards Act... That's where the formula is. This is a repeat. Of course, we can maintain this sentence, but from the point of view of legislative technology it seems that, since there is a reference to that law at the end of this law, the wording of the provisions of the Act, etc., does not need to be multiplied by articles and subsections. This is a more technical amendment, but it can also be introduced. I'll leave it to you. I am very pleased that the Eastern Cross will be established, and I am glad that we are here. I think that's the way it is. We agree on the reasonableness of our actions, and we are merely trying to improve a work that can always be improved as a human work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u126	Thank you, Senator. Thank you. Please take the floor of your marshal. [[Three minutes?]] [[Ten minutes.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. I think we're gonna finish working on this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This bill is needed. From this law we should start our settlements, also in the international sphere. The cross is modelled on Yad Vashem's award of the Righteous Among the Nations. It's from this side... That is how we should point out the righteous. And the situation in which the righteous were subjected to pressure and acted... This is something we know about, including Volyn. We should start by talking about the better side of human nature, about the people who rescued, so that we can talk about those who murdered. But we started on the other side, the other way around. It is good that we are already discussing this in a different order, and it is good that such an initiative has been presented. I support her. This discussion shows that we encounter a lot of problems that we can't see at first sight, which shouldn't be, but we want to commemorate the people who saved other people. I don't want to say that the bill should be written a little differently, that it should have a different structure. The first article should be a preamble. The Minister rightly called it a preamble, because it is a preamble, an introduction. It's a perfect introduction. Only then should there be further articles that are in this bill. What I'm saying is that the bill, the law we make, should be strict. Geographical concepts or areas of countries are accurate. For me, the concept of the Eastern Kresa, although it functions, is not a strict concept either geographically or historically. This is not a strict concept, and therefore there will be problems if such a concept functions. That's why I'm proposing to delete this concept. I would like to present an amendment that says that the words "Eastern Kresów" are deleted and replaced by "earths" or "lands" of the other Republic and in the Soviet Union... or the Soviet Union, let it be... [[Soviet.]] ...Soviet union. [[The Soviet Union.]] I think that... I repeat, the concepts should be strict. And there may also be the impression that we use concepts that are close and positive to us, and that for others, for those whom we want to reward, they are not positive and not close. What do you mean by "Eastern Kresy" and "Rzeczpospolita"? Why are we replacing this? Just to point out that it was ours? This is not good in this case, and this is not a good direction, that we want to reward, and at the same time we say: this was ours. So as it was ours, it could be ours. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. That might be a suggestion. Therefore, I believe that this must be deleted. I believe that this provision should be deleted. I agree that it can be the date of the 1917. But I do not understand why 1991 should be. The Soviet Union was indeed dissolved in 1991, but there was no repression a few years ago. In Gorbachev's time, since 1988, there has been no repression. Where were the repressions? If so, I would ask for an indication. [[In a mental institution.]] I believe that one can go in such a direction that we will say that after 1917, but this final date is not a convincing date for me. So after 1917. I also believe that this Cross should be broadcast, and it must be written down to citizens of other countries in such a way that it is their current citizenship. It should be given to citizens of other countries, not to people of nationalities other than Poland. Who's gonna find out who had what nationality? The Ukrainian comes and says: I was Polish. Or a Pole who says, "I was Ukrainian." There's no way to put it that way. This Cross should be given to citizens of other countries. I also believe that these citizens of other countries should be entitled to part of the Polish Charter. There's no need for an in-depth analysis here. There are several rights in the Polish Charter, which can be granted easily. And that's the amendment I'm going to make. But then it must be citizens of other countries. They can't be Poles. Because on what basis... [[They were Polish citizens...]] And here we go... Yes. What kind of clearances? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[...Jews.]] Mrs. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] Thank you for drawing the attention of Senator B Member. He's helping me, but I can handle it myself. What kind of clearances? Exemption from the obligation to have a work permit; possibility to benefit from emergency healthcare services 'Cause some of these people are definitely at an end-of-life age; relief from travel by means of transport, 37% reliefs; free admission to public museums. And that's the kind of authority we can and should admit. In fact, not only the Cross, not only the sheet, even the most beautiful and most honorable, but also something concrete. And then people will volunteer. Of course, it has to be verified, etc., etc. Well, we can imagine that there will also be unauthorized persons. So I think that some of these powers need to be given to the people who helped our fellow countrymen. And the last amendment. I think we need to delete our mouths. Article 3 2, which says that the Cross can be deprived of when its holder behaves in a manner which offends the Republic of Poland or Poles. I understand what the Polish Republic means... [[But it doesn't have that point anymore...]] ...but if someone says the Poles were murdering too, then what? And there were these situations, as part of repressive actions, in 1944, 1945... Are we gonna get that? You've got to think about it before you... Because we give this Cross for help, for saving it, and that's the most important thing. It doesn't matter if someone says something. Yes? He may have a different opinion than we do, but we're giving this Cross to save lives. As a result of this rescue... [[Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes...]] Already? I'm done. Saving a life is so important... I believe that giving this Cross is a one-off decision, we should not introduce the principle that we can receive this Cross. And at the end... may I? [[Mr. Marshal, well, it's been ten minutes.]] Five minutes, please. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna have to call a break.]] Then give me another minute. [[It's a minute, please.]] Yes? [[One minute, or I'm gonna have to call a break.]] The East End. I want to tell you how hard it is, how hard it is... what the problems are here. Come on, Bialystoke. Was it incorporated into the union? It's still there. So, are these the East Ends or not? Think about it, at least part of the Thought, etc. These are the problems I'm pointing to. I'm making amends, and I'm done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Robert Mammothov made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Jan Żaryn and Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Marek Ziółkowski: No.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a break until 6 p.m. At 6:00 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Retail Tax Act. And then to consider the ninth, tenth, eleventh and thirteenth points. Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 10 to 18 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u129	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. The text of the Act is contained in print No 330 and the committee report In print No 330 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 16 November, the Committee on Budget and Finance dealt with the Law amending the Act on Retail Income Tax. It was a bill prepared by the government to present which was authorised by the Minister of Finance. The Commission unanimously adopted the Law without amendment. The Legislative Office also did not raise any objections. The Act includes its substantive action to postpone the collection date of the store tax to 1 January 2018. As we all remember, the European Commission questioned the tax... of a well-known trade tax, opened proceedings and demanded that it be withheld. The finance minister by regulation of 18 October abandoned the collection of this tax. And now we want the tax collection deadline to be postponed to 1 January 2018. Why such a construction? The construction is that the government still wants this tax to work, believes that the European Commission will make a clear decision during this period, but the government is also preparing, if this decision were unfavourable, to appeal. The adoption of this law will mean that taxpayers will not have to submit tax returns. Under the regulation of the Minister of Finance, tax collection is suspended, but taxpayers must make declarations. Once this law has been passed, which is to postpone the collection of this tax, taxpayers will not have to make a declaration. As I said, the bill was unanimously approved by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u131	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Dowhan. You're welcome. The rapporteur would like to invite you to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u132	Once again, we are in such a funny situation that to what was passed and criticized by us, we are back today. Tell me something like that. The government has planned the tax revenue that was due from September 1st. That's not gonna happen. What was the amount and will this amount affect the implementation of any matters relating to our budget at the moment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u133	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u134	Mr. Senator, this element was not raised at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u135	Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u136	Is it true that we are working on a whole new retail tax? Do you know anything about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u137	Mr Senator, present at the committee meeting, the Minister, Deputy Minister of Finance, has not confirmed this information. The government is still in favour of the current solutions, it intends to defend them and convince the European Commission of those provisions that we have. At present, the European Commission is in the process of examining these provisions in detail and has ordered the collection of this tax to be suspended until it has been decided. The government is convinced that these are good solutions, but due to the requirement given by the European Commission, first the regulation of the Minister of Finance... The collection of this tax has been suspended in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission. And now, so that there are no such burdens for entrepreneurs, to make declarations, because they result from the provisions of the law, we eliminate them by adopting this law. So we're actually going out to meet... Maybe not: we make life easier for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u138	Senator Pop, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u139	Mr. Senator, if you're not able to answer that question, I'm going to ask the Minister. I would like to know, in more detail, what is the line of defence of this tax, what is the argument. However, the idea is to keep trying to defend the solutions that we have adopted and which the Commission has questioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u140	I think the best person to explain these issues will be the Minister here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u141	No further questions... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] No further questions, thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Vice Minister... Minister, come in. Hello, Minister Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present the government's position on the retail tax suspension project contained in Senate print no. 330. The rapporteur presented a sequence of events which resulted in an action concerning the Act which entered into force on 6 July 2016. By a decision of 19 September that year, the Commission initiated the procedure and ordered the suspension of the levy. First, on 19 October, the Minister of Finance issued a regulation suspending the collection of this levy, so the taxable persons did not actually pay that tax. However, this Regulation did not exempt those entities from submitting a tax return. Only the entry into force of this law, which we are presenting, will have such consequences, such consequences. On the question of Senator Pęka, I would like to answer that we, on the part of the Ministry of Finance, have provided all the arguments that have caused the tax to be determined in accordance with the principle which the High Chamber, the Sejm and the Senate have just adopted in the act, following a long-standing discussion with the environment of those who offer their services in the retail sector. We have forwarded our suggestions and the line of defence of this tax to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which here leads to a dispute with the European Commission and will file a complaint with the Court of Justice of the European Union. It's a very extensive document, Senator. It contains several dozen pages, I can answer that, and today it is a document that will be revealed in a specified mode, first transmitted to the TSUE and then published. So I think we'll all have access to it in a few weeks. And before that, it seems that it is impossible to disclose arguments, arguments and reasoning in the creation of a defence line, which was adopted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who will represent Poland's position on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u143	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u144	Mr. Minister, two points. One. Before a bill is presented, it is usually examined beforehand whether this project is compatible with European Union law. We usually get that opinion along with the justification. Did you carry out this duty during the drafting of the bill? On what basis did you conclude that this law is compatible with European Union law? Two. In what countries, where does this kind of tax work? Was it accepted by the European Union somewhere? In short, were there any reason to believe that such a tax could be introduced?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u145	Are there any more questions? Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u146	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One of the questions I wanted to ask was Senator Augustine. We too, Minister, when you wanted to introduce this tax, we claimed that he was incompatible... Still, you're incredibly stubborn about it. Aren't you just ashamed to come over and debate a certain topic once again about which everything was clear from the very beginning? That's my first question. Second question. Isn't there more important topics in the ministry than creating this trade tax, insisting on it when it practically doesn't exist anywhere in the world? And my third question, I think, is the most important question. Who will cover the costs of this whole process, all of what you say, by appealing to the European Commission, by preparing a letter? Who's gonna pay for this? Because someone made a mistake, it was made. Who's gonna pay for this today? A Polish taxpayer or maybe a minister out of his own pocket, or maybe the government will contribute? Someone makes mistakes, and we pay for it. Can you specifically answer that question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u147	Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u148	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government, the Government of Law and Justice, has the courage to shape the chances of raising the revenue of the state budget in a new way. This isn't a case that's been around for months. The issue of taxation of hypermarkets in Poland, retail sales in discussion, in public debate, in public space has been functioning in Poland for many, many years. Poland is a country in which the commercial segment with foreign capital in this area is extremely extensive, and therefore it is not easy to shape tax policy in relation to the network, to large-area shops, which, as we know, often apply tax optimizations, and data on the amount of tax resources that go to the state budget show that these optimizations are applied quite effectively. Hence the discussion, hence the debate on this subject was held, conducted and formed into the form of the bill that we brought to the Sejm, to the Senate, and then it left both of these chambers and was signed by the President. Poland I already said that from that bleacher. In the family of European countries, it is quite lonely in terms of seeking to shape and stimulate tax policy in this sector. To the senator's question, I answer that, indeed, Spain and France have a similar tax. There are different historical conditions regarding the acceptance of such a tax, there are different ownership structures, there is a different proportion of ownership of the home capital to the ownership of foreign capital and therefore this tax has not been contested. But it is true that the Government of Law and Justice has the courage in this segment to make efforts to enable small, medium-sized, family businesses to operate. This is the aspect that we were very interested in, apart from the fiscal aspect, which was a complementary aspect. Only one who doesn't do anything doesn't make mistakes. I would like to say this: I believe that the formula of this tax, which was finally defined, did not have to be criticised by the European Commission. Poland may at this point be a rather lonely country when it comes to making such a proposal, but believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. I am absolutely convinced that if this proposal were accepted by the European Commission... And we do not know how the Court of Justice of the European Union will behave. We know the cases of Polish entrepreneurs who, acting as global companies, competing for the market around the world, did not find recognition for their way of action before the European Commission and effectively defended their rights before the Court of Justice of the European Union. I suspect it might be so in this case. Then other countries will follow in the footsteps of Poland. That's why the stakes are so high. Don't worry about the cost either. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will conduct this matter within the framework of its normal functioning. We cannot, even with some shadow of doubt, take no action because we want to combine different types of revenue streams so that the government's budget ensures that the tasks are carried out by the government in accordance with an ambitious action programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u149	And Mr. Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u150	Minister, you have absolutely not answered the first question. Were there any indications that allowed you to hope that this was in line with European Union law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u151	During the whole time we had a debate in Poland on this subject, we were in contact with the European Commission. There were activities that allowed us to assume that this tax would not be challenged. [[Senator Dowhan...]] We have provided explanations on all issues that have been examined by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u152	Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u153	Minister, are we currently working on a brand-new trade tax? Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u154	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I am in favour of such communication in areas that are of interest to public opinion and individual industries, so that the only time when you can inform about proposals to change relations or tax relations or business conditions... These proposals must be so refined, they must be so mature that they are suitable for a communication on this matter to be presented by the Prime Minister of the Government, possibly the Minister of Finance. If any proposal gets a rank of this type, it will be presented to the public. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u155	Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u156	Thank you. So that's what this is about, Minister. Since you're working on something new... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: I didn't say we were working. I said...]] But you didn't deny it. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk:...Stenograms.]] There are solutions, so to speak, in my mind. You are calling into question this case which has now been launched by the European Commission. Does it even make sense to fight for this tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u157	Mr. Senator, we're not questioning anything. As you can see, the novel of this bill, with which we come to the High House, the Senate, contains a temporary suspension. In the interval of one year, we expect the European Commission to conclude its proceedings. As you can see, we are not retreating from this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u158	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u159	I'm sorry to be so inquisitive, but I haven't been a big fan of this tax since the very beginning, and I think it's very harmful, and I'm going to defend that right. But you said today... Besides, this is why it is created, because large trading groups, networks run away with tax, do not want to pay it in Poland, at least optimize their costs, as you said... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: This is not an exploratory statement.]] Yes. And do we have, or does the ministry have any examples of what it looks like? Because if that's the way it's said, then there should be some logic behind it too. That's my first question. And my second question is, do you still believe that this tax will be paid by the networks and not by the customers?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u160	I don't know if the question of faith is there, but please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u161	Let me say this, ladies and gentlemen: I have already answered all these questions, you can easily reach the transcript from the day I was previously present here. I have no new position on this. I also recalled the data I had here, and I would not want to recall them again at the moment, because it would be a waste of time for the High House. We all know about them: for the 100 billion revenue in the industry, 20 of the biggest players paid tax in 2013 I say this, recalling this data at the level of about PLN 250 million. This shows that the will to pay tax danin in Poland in relation to the scale of turnover of the industry is rachitic. This must give rise to the will and need to launch discussions on the future of the industry. Let me also add that, let's face it, the start of the 500+ programme has led to much greater sales through the shelves, through the shops and cash registers, with the same infrastructure. This also makes the sales more efficient. It therefore seems reasonable that at this time the discussion on paying taxes should be triggered in the wake of this social expectation and the expectation of small, residential, family shops to compensate for the conditions of competitiveness in the pursuit of economic activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u162	Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, we are in a certain sense defensive at the moment, because it is the European Commission that really decides, as I understand it, when this procedure will be concluded. Do we have any elements of pressure to speed this up? That's one thing. That's actually a question about the date that's in this bill. And secondly, don't you think that you should, in a sense, just run ahead and either apply another criterion... 'Cause I'm a big fan of this tax for a few reasons, obviously... Either it is necessary to apply the criterion of the area of the commercial object, or of the cubature, in order to distinguish between the entities that should pay the tax, or, in my opinion, to improve the situation of our retail, family trade, it is simply necessary to apply a uniform tax, which is the same for all, turnover. Because these little guys are gonna pay him, and maybe they're gonna have a bit of a grudge against the minister, but those big guys are gonna pay him for the first time, and they're gonna pay him in a situation like this, well, total inequality, avoidance of paying that tax, which is what you said, from this data... Do you not think that the Commission should, of course, be prosecuted, but seeing that the ball is on their side, that we are in the defense, it would be necessary to adopt a provision as soon as possible, which would be irrefutable in any way, just so that, among other things, we can. The bureaucrats of the European Union show that they are not in charge here yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u164	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u165	Thank you kindly, Senator, for that question. I can't be so eloquent in simulations of what could be and how it would seem to be any different than in this proposal we're looking at. All I can say is that... maybe even more as a Member than as a Minister I would like to say that it seems that if there were greater sympathy and understanding on the part of the opposition in Parliament, then such a path could be followed. However, because, which was completely incomprehensible, the critical power attached to this sphere was exaggerated, it was overdeveloped and probably also supported in a way sponsored by a certain media policy, I am not talking about this matter more than what I am authorized to do. In the first part of my speech on which direction one can go, I would like to remain disciplined. I am not going to question how much better it would be, because, ladies and gentlemen, for every version of this tax, we have established this during this long and comprehensive discussion that lasted for a year. There will be entities and legal persons who will be more or less satisfied. Please appreciate the fact that from the very first moment at which the first concepts of this socially expected tax were created... Nobody likes to pay taxes, but in this case there was a big social approval. This is a really radical change in social dissatisfaction. This undoubtedly succeeded the government, the High House of the Sejm and the Senate succeeded, especially since the core and essence of the tax structure were preserved. Any other solution will put us back where we started. I have no doubt that we will stand in exactly the same place where we were a year earlier when it comes to the pressure of the media, the opposition and the part of the public thus activated. As for the rest of you, I can't even speak here. Of course, I have a few scenarios in my head, but, as I said, they are completely irrelevant and non-binding until people properly attached to the Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Development and Finance, Deputy Prime Minister They will not take a decision on this matter which would put the subject in the public forum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u166	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you kindly.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u167	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to say a few words... I was actively involved in the creation of that law and I also criticized it very much. Minister, there have been many words here about the whole process. It was said that this had no right to succeed because the European Commission would not agree to such a provision. That's what happened, and I don't know if there's any point in replicating it all. This issue is coming back to us, we need to deal with this point again, we need to talk about it again somewhere else. And it's not like you say... you said they paid 250 million taxes in 2013. That's not enough, is it? The turnover, as you said, was large, but the margin does not always follow: in the markets there are costs associated with the operation of large facilities. Contrary to appearances, contrary to what the opposition says, marketers have brought much good to Polish trade. First of all, most of us, most of those who are connected with trade today, have learned what already have proven systems in the West, which have been operating there for many years. Nor is it true that our family trade in Poland has something to be ashamed of and that we do not have large networks, because such large networks, really good, are many I'm not going to replace them here. But also today Poles set an example, among others. in the West, how to create good trade. However, I will continue to defend the view that no tax should be introduced because it will not do any good. This tax, Minister, will pay the final recipients at the end, on which this tax should not actually be imposed. You don't believe that when there's a small margin that you've counted here, when it comes to paying the tax, the networks themselves today will pay 1.2% more. tax I guess that's the stakes, 'cause now I don't remember. It's out of your own pocket. I'm sure they'll either raise prices or live, lower the supplier's margin. Which also happened in a way because I had the opportunity to talk about it. It is also sad to hear that once again Poland introduces something that is subject to criticism And the right criticism, Minister, there's nothing to be ashamed of, sometimes it's worth listening to. And then we have to fight at European level and prove something that I believe is doomed and will be a failure. Perhaps you need honesty. As Senator Czerwinski said, In an approach to this and must be subject to the tax of all. Why should the big one pay and the little one doesn't? Small, if it has a small turnover, then this tax will pay relatively less, but also relatively... it can always arrange for itself to make money for this tax. I think we're debating again here and moving... I think it's been suspended until 2018. You didn't answer the question. Because you've planned your budget revenues and expenses. I'm sure that money's already spent on 500+ or other things. So how are you gonna even it up? How will this money go to the budget? I hope that the Commission will reject this tax and that the new solutions that you may be working on will be done in such a way that this will certainly be primarily fair to all and will not hit the so-called ones unilaterally. bad trading networks that don't really do anything wrong. This is my voice expressing only my opinion, because I have no connection to any markets, although I often shop there as well as in small shops that are in my neighborhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u168	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would remind you that paragraphs 5 and 6 were considered before the session was adjourned. As previously announced, we will proceed with the amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Act and certain other laws on Thursday, 1 December, in order to consider item 7 of the agenda. To consider item 8 of the agenda, the Act on amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and some other laws, we will proceed tomorrow. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 335 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 335 A and 335 B. Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 23 November 2016, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt a draft resolution without amendments. There was a big discussion on this subject and no amendments were tabled. The Legislative Office proposed amendments, but the government considered that the law could work without amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. And the committee decided that a law should be adopted without amendment, as it requested. This law is a law expected by farmers. We remember that earlier, in the previous term, there was a law in place in which there was a flat-rate sale. The present law introduces such a solution that it gives the possibility to exempt farmers, small farmers, in the case of the sale of processed products, whether they are plants or animals... Up to 20,000 of them are released... And if there are more than 20,000 farmers who want to produce processed products, they can switch to a 2% flat rate, as in the previous law. The solution discussed here is expected by farmers, small farmers, who will be able to do so... Of course, farmers expected more. But, as the government expressed in its position, only up to 20,000... The government has justified that if you exceed 20,000, you will have fiscal money, and that will create a problem for farmers. Therefore, we do not want, according to the government, to expose farmers to the need to buy fiscal cash registers. They will be able to move on to a 2% lump sum, to a resolution from a law that had been passed earlier, in the previous term of office. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u170	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance on 28 November also bowed to the bill that my previous speaker was talking about, i.e. the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers, and after a brief discussion, it asks that the High Senate adopt this law without amendment. [[That's it?]] I don't think repeating myself makes sense anymore, as it's about the same bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u172	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u173	Indeed, that bill that was in force... It was also our project, senate, if I remember correctly. And I would like to ask, Mr President, I am addressing this question to Mr Chróścikowski, or the records of such sales... 'Cause it was kind of problematic and cumbersome out there. It's stretched out, I understand, on this release, so to speak, volume of goods, right? Well, because there's a way to determine... Or has something changed in this way, for the benefit of farmers, for small producers? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u174	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u175	Of course it's changed. And that's even changed a lot of things. First of all, you can, not like before... It's simplified... So the record and the records... At present, it will be possible to sell not as it was proposed and previously recorded, in that law, that the farmer must sell it himself. Now the farmer will be able to hand this product over to another farmer. Two or three farmers will be able to... One will be able, on behalf of several, two or three, to go into town and sell this product from what it's called, basketball. They can organize themselves, and they don't have to be individually... According to that law, products could not be sold, which we raised very strongly, to agrotourism farms, to restaurants, to kindergartens or schools. And in this law, the farmer will be able to sell directly not only to the final consumer but also to other entities. So this is the solution that meets the expectations. The farmers cared very much for this. The point is to make it easier, not more difficult. And as for this project, I would like to draw the senator's attention to the fact that... as we worked on the senate project here, Senator Grzegorz Wojciechowski was making the conclusion that it would be 20,000, but we didn't approve it then, as you remember. [[That's what happened. It's true.]] It went at a lower rate, and our proposal, the Senate, was converted into a message, and there was no free amount, just a lump sum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u176	Senator Dowhan, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The 20 grand threshold will be maintained. It's tax-free, as I understand it... [[It's not income, it's turnover.]] Rotation? [[Yeah, from a sold product.]] Good. You said that the farmer would then be able to choose flat-rate taxation, that he would be able to choose this 2% rate. Is there anything else he can choose? I understand that there are normal accounting rules at stake. [[Anyone can start a normal operation at any time. There's no obstacle here.]] Good. Here's my question. Let's just say someone has a very large farm. Won't there be a fear that... because you can't have intermediaries. Right? Is it not a concern that he will use this by fleeing taxation through only a 2% flat-rate sale?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u178	The bill was passed, as you remember. Some of the senators remember that. In the previous term of office. The threshold was PLN 600,000, as I recall. [[150 thousand euros.]] Well, one hundred and fifty... That's times four... But... Yes, exactly 150,000 euros, as the President says. [[So there's a threshold.]] There's a threshold, there's a limit. And then, after that period, it becomes normal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u179	Senator Dowhan has another question? [[No, no. Thank you.]] Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u180	Mr President, this is how I supply myself, because I just think that these products are excellent. I've got places where... At that time, this, well, dissatisfying bill I promoted at my market to encourage... many people use it, and if there were even more of them, it just needs to be applauded. However, it happens that those who sell there today, under the current law, hesitate to issue these processed meats, pâtés, etc. It's probably not about fiscal matters. It's about veterinary control. And that's what I'd like to ask. How do these proposals regulate this issue? ♪ 'Cause on the one hand ♪ this is of course a facilitation, the natural product is more accessible, etc. It's all fun and important. On the other hand, food safety... How do you regulate this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u181	That bill is in effect. As I remember, by the end of January or February I could be wrong about the month. There was the possibility of reporting entities. And these entities came forward. Someone told me, but I might be wrong that there are only 300 entities on the market that operate under the 2%-crying Act. Like regulations in the case of small businesses... That's what you'd have to ask the Minister, because I don't know that much about the details. It's called the so-called. MOL, i.e. local and limited marginal activities. According to those regulations, they were approaching... But it was supposed to be more simplistic. As far as I know... According to what happened in the Sejm during the work on the current law, a regulation will be issued by the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Health setting out the conditions under which farmers will be able to sell... I'm talking about this present law. We are therefore looking forward to these regulations which will lay down the rules on which farmers will be able to... It shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture and Health will be able to issue regulations on what conditions farmers will be able to... We will see if this will apply to people who cook in their own kitchen and sell them, whether it will be other detailed... The Minister explained that this should apply to the regulations of the European Union which contain derogations from this principle, so please ask Minister Lach, who is present in our plenary room for details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u182	I don't see anyone willing to ask questions. Thank you, rapporteurs. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative... The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Ewa Lech. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Maybe I'll just answer questions, because otherwise...]] There'll be questions. You're welcome, Minister. As I said earlier, the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You were the first Senator Grodzki to come forward. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In general, this project is actually attractive because people like to buy products straight from the manufacturer, but as a doctor I cannot ask a question about the hygiene side of this issue. Do these laws and laws related to this law secure enough page, let's call it, health care? Is there no fear that we will buy something that will harm our health? I don't want to talk about cases of hairy hair, because these are drastic situations, but they can even be simple impurities or bacteria from salmonella to klebsiella. Wouldn't this street trade cause an epidemiological threat to the population?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u184	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This is a very important question. I don't think so. I am even convinced that if this law in this form comes into force, it will be safe, but it follows not only from the law, but also from the fact that, as far as hygiene is concerned, EU legislation is still in force in processing. We can't go here to make concessions so that a farmer can produce under any conditions. Of course, we will apply simplified requirements for the design and design of different basic procedures. This is a certain abacus in terms of production on the farm, but as for hygienic and microbiological requirements, here we cannot accept concessions. This is not possible because these are EU rules and the farmer will have to comply with certain microbiological minima. As is the case with microbiology, this also applies to the preservation of the refrigeration chain, i.e. the conditions that ensure that the food we buy will be healthy food. Of course, there may always be some faults, but this applies not only to food produced on the farm but also to industrial production. The principle is that the manufacturer is responsible for the quality of food. We're gonna try to oversee this agricultural retail trade... Such supervision will be carried out by the Veterinary Inspection, of course, in part by the State Sanitary Inspection, but after the merger it will be one inspection. I don't see any major threats here, because this production is going to be small. It's supposed to be a kind of extra salary, it's not going to be something that gives family support, it's really going to be an opportunity to expand the income catalogue on the farm. So I don't see any major threats. Of course, the inspection will take care of this, and I am sure it will not be bad in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u187	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, well, of course the village and farmers are pleased to extend in this law a circle of operators who can buy food directly from the farmer. I, unlike people who are concerned about the quality of this food, do not have such concerns, because here this anonymity will disappear, because we are talking about direct sales. I am more concerned about what farmers are raising, i.e. that they will be afraid to develop this activity, because the inspections they control will receive additional authorisations and will be easier to control. At least that's what I understand when it comes to authorising inspectors to control these holdings. And here is a concern whether or not this good law will simply be limited, whether its effects will be reduced by such free supervision as it is enshrined in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u188	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u189	Mr. Senator, such supervision must have been recorded in this way. But I assure you... This is due to my many years of practice and in general the practice of the Veterinary Inspection and the experience of farmers who have actually tried to make the main burden of supervision rest on the Veterinary Inspection, because the inspection is most often on the farm, the doctors of the Veterinary Inspection know what the conditions are on the farm, are able to assess whether the farmer will really care about hygiene and can give him a little more time or much less to control it, because it is known that it is well there. So it's a question of assessment and subjective approach. I assure you that there will be no persecution, there will certainly be a risk assessment where the farm needs to be more frequent. I would also like to refer to the senator's question, who had previously asked whether, under this law, which is currently in force... [[Senator Grodzki.]] No, not before. [[Senator Augustine.]] ...that farmers who make retail trade in stalls or markets are afraid of controlling and actually selling sausage. Because, in fact, this bill... Therefore, there is no willingness to benefit from the benefits of this law, that retail trade is supervised by a health inspection, and by definition of retail trade it follows that we can sell raw food. Therefore, there are these problems. But this farm retail bill... That's why we introduce the concept of agricultural retail trade so that we can sell processed food as well. And here the surveillance will look different. That's how I wanted to complete the senator's answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u190	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u191	I will no longer repeat this question, thank you for your answer. Well, there's a very big difference. I suppose that's why it's like this: you know what, it's not here, why don't you come to the car, because here... But that's another compliment for the services, because if they were afraid, that means that these checks are. I would like to ask whether this law takes into account the process of combining services into one service, whether or not we will be updating this law in a moment. Because this veterinary service, as I've heard from the president, is supposed to carry out control duties. And today, I think there was a conference in the Senate, and I think we've already had a bill here that's supposed to connect these services. Does this law already take account of this change?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u192	Mr. Senator, this bill doesn't take into account this change because there's still a multitude of inspections, so it can't take into account it. But in the new law, introducing a new inspection, allowing a new inspection... there will also be a change in the Food Safety and Nutrition Act, where appropriate competences will be included. And it will be from the power of a new procedated law, which speaks of combining inspection in the law will write it down. So under the new law, agricultural retail trade will be supervised by a new inspection. This is not the case at the moment, but it will be the case, and it will be the result of the bill that we are currently drawing up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u193	Mr. Senator Spokesperson. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u194	Thank you. Minister, I have one more question, because now there's a certain doubt that I didn't ask at the committee meeting. Will online sales also be treated as direct sales? Because today it becomes quite common. If the consumer thus makes contact with the manufacturer, then he can use the intermediary as a service and then he will not necessarily be the intermediary, because he who delivers the goods will be the service provider of the carrier. Does this law regulate this issue in any way, or will it only be specified in the regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u195	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u196	We talked about this. The bill doesn't specifically refer to online sales, but assuming that we sell to the final customer online... It's a question of interpretation. It's actually possible, although, actually, it might raise doubts, because I was talking about keeping the cooling chain here earlier, so... But given the information I have, I can say that online sales will be possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u197	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Łuczak and Senator Łuczak have made their speeches in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The text of the Act is contained in print No 328 and the report of the Commission In print No 328 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development a report on the law adopted by the Sejm on 15 November 2016 amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. As far as our committee's position is concerned, the committee has made two amendments that say that... the Legislative Office pointed to detailed references. So we've introduced records that would show... that define, for example. the words "alive weight' shall be replaced by "alive weight'. Such, you might say, cosmetic records are introduced. The Promotion Funds Act mainly aims to promote Polish products that are bought from Polish producers... Also animals bred in our country... The point is to promote our products. There's another change. Up until now, the membership of the promotion funds has been different... Before that was 4:4 and 1 a representative of the farmhouse, and now it will be so that in the fund farmers will have 5 people and processors 3 people. So it's kind of turning around here... It is about farmers, so that those who actually produce have a greater impact on what to promote, how to manage these funds. This is how the Ministry prepared it, and this is the outcome of the consultation, and this is what the law proposes. The point is that farmers, not processors, can promote their products to a greater extent, as before not only products that are produced in the Republic of Poland could be promoted, but also those that are... As always, the issue of fees was also raised. I don't think there are any major changes here, but we have repeatedly requested that the import product to be promoted should also be charged for it. And I'm afraid that's what I think... At least I don't remember it being solved in this part. It is clear that in the territory of the Republic of Poland we are to promote products of Polish producers. I think that's it for information. Please accept these two amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u199	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Jack Bogucki. Hello, Minister. Do you wish to speak? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome. Minister, come in. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u200	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question regarding the extension of the Government's submission to the rule allowing for the use by 31 December 2018 of this promotion fund... It is specifically about the rearing of pigs, i.e. pigs, which are produced not only from our biological material, but also may come from outside the territory of Poland, those weighing up to 30 kg. Who was the main initiator of the extension of this record? I ask, because after a brief consultation with farmers that I conducted during the committee's work, until today's meeting I learned that farmers believe that this extension of the possibility of promoting products from animals that were not born in Poland by 2 years will sustain the huge influx of piglets on the Polish market and thus hinder the development of Polish genetic material, Polish breeding pigs. That's the feeling of farmers. They think this enlargement is a wrong solution compared to the solutions of the government's submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u201	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u202	Mr Senator, in answer to the question, I would like to point out that this provision appeared in the course of parliamentary work. Such an amendment was requested by producer organisations and processors of pig meat. The government agreed to this change because we are aware of the situation in which pig breeding is currently located in Poland. On 18 million pieces slaughtered annually in Poland between 5 million and 7 million are imported piglets. So 1/3 of the animals are imported, 1/3 of the material for breeding comes from imports. A justification for this amendment and the argument that we have accepted when it comes to changes... There are several arguments. The first point is to collide with the specific situation that we are currently dealing with. At the same time, a 2-year transition period has been set up. For both businesses and farmers, time has been set for accessing their own farm. In the case of pig breeding, 2 years is the period during which the breeding can be increased by 1/3 and developed; this possibility gives the speed of investigation to the breeding of dungeon. We will also offer farmers a programme related to the purchase of dungeon and support for this purchase. Another point is that it would now be very difficult for promotional funds to separate products produced exclusively from Polish breeding material from final products produced from imported products, especially as regards processed products. This is very easy for raw meat, but it would be very difficult for processed products. So we agreed to this. But also with certain doubts. In order to give the farmers and the meat industry this 2-year transitional period to adapt to the need for us, as Poland, to return to self-sufficiency in pig farming.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u203	Thank you very much. I don't see anyone willing to ask questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farm Animals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 329 and the report of the Commission In print No 329 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u204	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 23 November considered a law amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. This law was adopted by the Sejm on 15 November. This law has been under investigation since the spring of this year. This is an important law for farmers as it introduces new tariff rates for agricultural insurance. From up to 3.5% and 5% These rates increase to 9% and 12% in the case of soils of Class V and 15% in the case of Class VI soils. These changes aim to promote insurance among farmers. So far, the current rates and subsidies... because it must be said that these rates are the accident rates fixed by the Minister, by regulation, the amount of compensation and are eligible for these subsidies, up to 65% of the subsidy. To date, these rates are 3.5% and 5% did not fulfil its function to the extent that we would do so. they expected, because insurance undertakings, in the case of certain risks which were more frequent, required higher fees for farmers. And here was the problem, because above these rates the minister could not... It was not possible to pay more, to finance this risk, in fact, to reduce it. Recent years have shown that because this scope of insurance is so small, the costs of most disasters and their consequences have fallen on the state budget and on the Ministry. The Ministry must have responded or wanted to react and help farmers. I think that this change and the planned budget for the following years will make these insurances more common and that the burden on the budget... But also the safety of farmers will be much greater. Mr Marshal, High Senate, the committee calls for this law to be adopted together with an amendment aimed at detailing one of the articles. As I said, the committee has asked for her support by the High Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u205	Thank you very much. Please remain on the stand. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: No.]] No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would remind you that item 12 was deleted from the agenda. We proceed to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. I would remind you that the project was introduced by a group of senators and included in print No 244, and the committee's report In print No 244 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Marshal Grażyna Sztark, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance... According to Art. 53j of the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. The Institute of Remembrance carries out activities related to commemoration of historical events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people, both in Poland and abroad, as well as places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in particular in the area of... I will not list all kinds of activities, but I will show the ones that inspired a group of senators to take this legislative initiative. It is mainly about: initiating care of places of struggle and martyrdom and permanent commemoration of facts, events and figures associated with these places; popularizing by means of mass media places, events, historical figures related to fights and martyrdom; assessing the state of care of places and permanent objects of national memory, in particular over graves and war cemeteries and national liberation fights, cemeteries of victims of totalitarian terror, as well as chambers of national memory; evaluating historical conclusions for permanent commemoration of places of historical events, as well as outstanding figures related to history of fighting and martyrdom. Ladies and gentlemen, these activities are seven. I here, as I said before, pointed out the four basics that we're mostly talking about. These IPN tasks were added to the IPN Act of 29 April 2016, i.e. The Act amending the Act on IPN, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and certain other laws of 29 April 2016. As the projectors showed at the time, the amendment of 29 April 2016 provided IPN with the competences indicated, which was the consequence of the IPN's taking over tasks related to the protection of memorial sites and martyrdom, which had so far been carried out by the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Walk and Martyrdom. I remind you that she was included in the IPN, that the IPN took over this activity. The amendment of 29 April 2016 also resulted in the acquisition of the existing powers of the Council by the Institute as from 1 August 2016. It should also be pointed out that, until 1 August 2016, the Law of 21 January 1988 on the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom did not provide for And that's what it's all about. No restrictions related to the date of commemoration of historical events. This restriction was unfortunately introduced by this new law in the wording given to it on 29 April 2016. According to Art. 1 point 6 of the new IPN Act regulates activities related to commemoration of historical events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people In both the country and abroad As well as places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations in the territory of the Republic of Poland during the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. Such a limitation raises doubts about the possibility of the IPN to perform these tasks if the events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people are related to the period before 8 November 1917. Such a significant narrowing of the tasks of the IPN compared to the similar tasks of the Abandoned Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom should simply be regarded as an error of the legislator, therefore it is necessary to enter into force as soon as possible to repeal this and only this fragment of the article. Point 1 (6) of the IPN Act, which refers to the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. Before I quote this revised article. 1 point 6, I would like to tell you that after 1 August 2016, among others. Unfortunately, the exhumation of the legionaries of Marshal Piłsudski was discontinued in Ukraine because they were killed in battles which were fought in 1916. That's why I'd really like you to... This is so important that it is very difficult to reverse such a decision, because both the Ukrainian side and the Belarusian side, please, are not willing to issue such consents. I also want to say that I was inspired by my stay in Kostiuchnówka, because scouts from Poland and Ukraine, scouts of Polish origin... That's where the exhumation was made. The fear that a ban will be imposed by the Ukrainian side, to which it will be based... I therefore ask you to accept this passus. I understand... Because it is said that there will be work on a new bill and it is to be taken over by the Ministry of Culture in its entirety. But, ladies and gentlemen, time is running out, and this project is gone. If we were to introduce this narrowing amendment, we could, with a pure heart, look forward to new changes and the adoption of this new law. I ask you once again to lean on this project and accept, temporarily of course, the article. 1 as follows: in the Act of 18 December 1998 on the Institute of National Remembrance, in Article. 1 in item 5... At the end of this provision a semicolon is added and point 6 is replaced by the following: carrying out activities related to commemorating historical events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people, both in Poland and abroad, as well as places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations in the territory of the Republic of Poland. And art. 2: The law shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. So we're removing the same thing with the previous law, the limit date, which is 1917. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am counting on your understanding, because this solution is probably in the interest of all of us when it comes to historical policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u207	Thank you very much. At present, the senators... I'm asking you to stay on the stand for a while. [[Yes, sir.]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized you to represent Marshal Grażyna Štark. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like the senator, who is the rapporteur, to state which draft reported whether the one in print No 244, which is quite short and concerns one point in one of the articles, or the one in print No 244 S, which is much more extensive. Although it contains 2 articles, as well as the starting articles, so to say, but after the amendment by the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights Commission, it was supplemented by other provisions of the law on IPN. As a result, there is no change in one point, only the change concerns as many as five. I've got him right in front of me. Which one are we leaning on right now and what are we supposed to say, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u209	This is print 244, not 244 S. I'm gonna... I'm gonna... [[What about print number 244 S?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] How is the report written? [[Please? Sorry, I talked to the legislator...]] How is it written? No 244 or no 244 S? [[The report shall be marked with the symbol "S'.]] [[Exactly.]] Excuse me. [[Yes. We talked about your marshal referring to the previous one... not the committee report.]] Can I get that print, please? Thank you very much, Senator. I mean, I... [[Take it easy, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, in print... Thank you very much again, because actually... [[Mr. Senator, that's what we've been talking about with the legislator. I'm asking you to check it out so we don't make a mistake.]] Yeah, 'cause in all of them... In fact, this is about this limit date. In this print number 244 I was talking about, there was only a narrowing of it to the article. Point 1 (6). And indeed you are right, you are right that we have made amendments in all the articles on dates. Where there were border dates, i.e. where it was referred to 8 November 1917 and 31 July 1990, this was indeed extended and changes were recorded at all points where these dates were included. Again, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u210	No, no, Senator, it's okay. We're just vigilant. [[No, no, very right, very good.]] Thank you very much, Senator... [[Thank you for paying attention, because it wasn't the project... thank you.]] Yeah, yeah, that's gonna stay... Thank you very much, senator, for your vigilance. We controlled everything here, too. Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u211	If you don't mind, Senator, I'm gonna ask you a substantive question. At the committee's meeting, let's face it, there was a difference of opinion in the case of people representing two institutions, the Ministry of Culture and the IPN, on the division, in quotes, of a group of issues that both institutions oversee. And now I have this question: is there a uniform view in this regard? Do you have any information about this? It's just that no one gave us that information. Question: "Is it clear who is to deal with this in the future?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u212	Unofficially... Unofficially, because officially, as they say... [[Senator, unofficially on camera? Very well...]] Unofficially... Well, I can't cheat. I'm going to unofficially say that the whole thing is probably going to be taken care of by the Ministry of Culture. However, I would like to say that there has been, in fact, an exchange of views between the representatives of the IPN, who still felt heir and felt responsible for taking over these tasks... On the other hand, the Minister of Culture claimed that this would be in the tasks that the Ministry now took over. And that was the way it was when we split up after the committee meeting. And I should report according to what it looked like at the last committee meeting. The bill's draft then... These amendments have been accepted, but as far as I know, they have... I mean, this time has unfortunately not been used to prepare a coherent and common draft of a new law that would just consume these tasks, just to say... Well, the IPN and the Ministry of Culture continued to clash until they probably came to an agreement that this ministry should lead to this. All the more reason that there's a professor. No, not some, unless Professor Friszke is to prepare a range of new issues in the field of issues which was led by the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. But it's off the record, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u213	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u214	One last question... [[No, you're welcome.]] I'll admit that I think I'm going to express my opinion here. The IPN is better prepared in substance... [[Of course. That's what I think.]] ...and personnelly, also simply because he is already taking up certain matters in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, the date is not important because the monument from 150 years ago and the monument from 50 years ago is still the same monument, the question of the object itself, the type of object that someone is to take care of. What else is the theatre, and what else is the monument. Well, it's a simple thing. Shouldn't it simply be left to the IPN, according to this project that we have here at the moment? How do you think you're the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u215	Yes, I agree, absolutely, because the IPN is simply prepared for this. It's not enough for a dry letter of law. The IPN has been doing this all the time, so handing these responsibilities over to the ministry can cause new... even though it will be equipped with competence, etc. I would like to say that the most important thing here is to reach the Ukrainian, Belarusian side, and it takes a lot of time. When we were in Kostuchnówka, we saw that not always the spirit of the law... It gave strong arguments to those people there who have been working on exhumations for a long time. I fear that the introduction of this law and the division of powers will prolong the ongoing disputes and, unfortunately, may result in the cessation of exhumation and care... The care of graves is not relevant, but with exhumation may be problems, so that I agree with the fact that IPN is the most competent He just doesn't have to study.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u216	I'm joining your vote. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. [[Thank you very much, and I'm sorry again.]] But you're really welcome. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading covered only the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Do we have an announcement to read? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u217	Communication: Joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad on the examination of requests submitted to the Eastern Cross Act will take place on Thursday, 1 December 2016, at 8.30 a.m. in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-senat-31-2.u218	Thank you very much. High Izbo, tomorrow's deliberations will be resumed at 10.00 a.m. from the third point: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. Today's plan was exhausted. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[He's a marshal. Bravo!]] [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 32]]
