ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u1	I open the 15th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, in connection with today's Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Katyn Crime, please rise and celebrate the minute of silence of all the NKVD's murders by decision of the Supreme Authorities of the Soviet Union of 5 March 1940. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] [[They remain in our memory.]] Thank you very much. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the eleventh meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 12th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any volunteers. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 15th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. High Izbo, vote on the Act to suspend the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and to amend certain laws, i.e. The agenda item will be held today after the adjournment, which will be ordered after consideration of this item. After the vote, we will continue with the deliberations and proceed with the consideration of the next items on the agenda. I would like to inform you that the remaining votes will be held at the end of today. I would like to inform you that after the committee's report on the draft resolution on commemorating Józef Czapski's memory, the agenda will be supplemented by a second reading of this draft resolution. In addition, I inform you that if the Sejm adopts a law on amending the Law on Forests and the Law on amending the Law on the Information System in Health Protection and certain other provisions on the agenda of the current Senate meeting, it will be supplemented by items covering their consideration. High Senate, the Senior Convention has decided to change the date of the current sitting, i.e. delete 14 April and appoint the second day of the meeting as at 20 April 2016. The meeting will be adjourned by 11 a.m. on Wednesday 20 April. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I inform you that Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has made a statement of his consent to be held liable for the act set out in the application of the Chief Police Commissioner, filed with the Senate Marshal through the Attorney General on 3 March 2016. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the information material concerning the celebration of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism, which will take place next Friday in Poznań, has been placed on your desktops. At 10 a.m. an hour's break will be ordered... [[Today?]] Today. ...At the request of the Civic Platform Club, break 10. 00 and 11:00 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 124 and the Commission's reports In print No 124 A and No 124 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Commission meeting did not adopt the law without amendments, nor did it adopt the amendments tabled, and I therefore present those amendments which were tabled and which were not accepted. Namely for the article. 2 of the Act was tabled an amendment which would actually introduce an editorial amendment consisting in deleting the word "or' relating to the sale of immovable property other than those mentioned in paragraph 2. 2. Because I remind you that in general, the rule is... is that in art. 1 The principle of halting the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury for a period of 5 years has been introduced. But in the article. 2 there are a number of exemptions for different categories of real estate. Let me briefly mention the most important: these are e.g. those which in the local spatial planning plan or study conditions or in the final decision on the conditions of construction and land development are intended for purposes other than agricultural purposes, for example. agricultural property with an area of up to 2 ha. Therefore, these properties continue, in accordance with Article. 2 would be sold, i.e. would not be subject to this withdrawal, a 5-year suspension from the sale of real estate belonging to the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. In the mouth. 3 The general principle is that, however, the sale of these other properties than those previously mentioned, if it is carried out without the consent of the Agricultural Property Agency, is invalid by virtue of the Act. It was a matter of whether or not to use the consistency here. In the end, this was the proposal, in line with the Legislative Office's proposal, to skip this consistency. Then there was the amendment. I would add that you supported this amendment by Senator Zientarski, tabled by Senator Żaryn, which led to the fact that in Article. 6 in point 8, delete the provisions which have changed the current legal status, which provide for the preference of persons who have lost ownership of the State Treasury until 1992 to acquire property from the State stock. At present, such priority is provided for in the Act, and now the Act was intended to abolish this priority. Senator Żaryn argued that this was a departure from a principle of social justice, which the previous regulation contained, namely the desire to make good the harm of those who lost their property in the former communist system, when property was taken away on different principles, or on the basis that people were expropriated in a manner, one-sided, without preserving the rights of the other party, for example, to fair compensation, or when property of earthly property was taken away from purely class premises, treating it as a way of fighting people of the previous system, or democratic system that existed in Poland before the Second World War. This amendment was not accepted either. Then there was the technical amendment tabled by Senator Ziientarski concerning the calculation of the different situations in Article. 6. There it was mentioned that the following points in the article, points 1, 2 and 3 are applicable. This was intended to replace by such a global finding that it was the situations mentioned in points 1 and 3, which, from a purely technical point of view, would seem appropriate, and which, moreover, was tantamount to calculating the situations in turn. Then there was an amendment by Senator Ziientarski concerning the article. 6. Mr Senator proposed to expand the concept of a subsidiary economy by introducing... not so much by introducing, but by extending the situation when it cannot be acquired agricultural property, when it is acquired by a subsidiary, by adding that it is a parent company. This amendment was not accepted either. Then there was the amendment tabled by Senator Štark concerning the possibility for the Agricultural Property Agency to approve the cessation of business activities. It was proposed that the authorisation of the Agricultural Property Agency should also be possible where the health status of the purchaser prevents the personal holding from being operated, which is not provided for by the law at the moment. Then with regard to the article. Six was a proposal from Senator Zientarski of a purely legal nature. Mr. Senator pointed out that the determination of criminal liability for making false statements on the sources of origin of the funds for the acquisition of agricultural property from the Treasury's resources... If a false statement is made, it will be the responsibility not to give false testimony, as it is written in the bill, but to make a false statement. So that, for the sake of precision, such an amendment That's my point. It's advisable. Then there was Senator Infantry's amendment to the article. 7 concerning the marketing of agricultural property, to a point which allows the acquisition of real estate by, let's call it contractually, ecclesiastical entities, i.e. churches, various religious organizations, these entities, so to speak, are exempt from certain restrictions. Senator Piechota has proposed to introduce a provision that it is the entities registered until 31 December 2015, indicating that, if this restriction does not exist, different types of entities registered only for the purpose of acquiring those agricultural properties, as regards the marketing of which these restrictions are introduced, may be created. This would create a breach in this regulation. That amendment didn't go through either. So much for the amendments. I don't know whether to present the idea of this bill in general or not. Maybe I'll just limit myself to discussing the amendments that have been tabled. I am aware that, in view of the nature of these very detailed regulations, my report may raise many questions, so that I ask questions if they are. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to submit a report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission discussed the matter on 5 April and prepared its position. The proposed draft resolution reads: the Senate, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 31 March on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain other laws, shall adopt this law without amendment. At the meeting of our committee there was a big discussion, many comments were made. Counsel Gil from the Legal Office has reported them several times. Some of these comments were taken over and tabled as amendments. There was also an amendment tabled by Senator Piotr Flork. The farthest proposal was a proposal to adopt a law without any amendments, which the committee adopted, which I initially referred to. It is the bill that is expected to introduce better legal provisions than the previous ones in the Act adopted on 5 August 2015, better regulates the trading between neighbours, as well as the issue of halting the sale of land from the Treasury. The exception is that up to 2 ha will be possible... Many other comments, which I recall, have been made during the work of the Sejm, have also been taken into account. So that this initial project, which was submitted for consultation, has changed a lot, many amendments have been made to it. I would like to remind you that the committee was sitting here earlier, even before the Sejm started, on the printed paper that was submitted at the time. And we were already making comments at the committee meeting. Let me remind you that our committee has made two such general comments. It is questionable whether an individual farmer must be eligible as a farmer who is insured in KRUS. The Seym has been accepted... this record has been turned off. The amendment we tabled was therefore It's like it's already included in the Seym. And the second, very important: we paid attention to the fact that the farmer who wants to sell the property and the agency wants to enter into priority law, could withdraw from such a transaction. This observation was also taken into account during the parliamentary work. I think that these two main changes that we drew attention to at our committee's meeting, the Sejm took into account, which allows the agency to act more preferentially If the farmer considers that he does not want to sell the property at such a price, he will be able to withdraw. Only one of this minus: the farmer will eventually have to pay the costs of the valuation of the real estate, which the agency proposed. But it's already a farmer's risk, or he's willing to pay the costs, or he's going to want to sell the property at the price that the real estate agency is offering him. Prices will be averaged at the price in circulation, the average price in circulation, possibly calculated by experts. That's it. I think you will have a lot of questions, and I particularly recommend the Minister here. Minister Jurgiel is with us today, the chief manager, who will be able to respond to you in detail, because this project is not parliamentary, it is government-owned. Therefore, I think the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, will be presenting very valuable comments, explanations and a broader opinion on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I've had enough to start with. It would seem, seemingly, a simple question, although I cannot formulate the right answer. It is undoubtedly satisfactory that you present this project as a government project. Nevertheless, it is some change in the process of legal acts, in the work of the Sejm and the Senate in this term of office, and that must be noted. Minister, why are you pointing out... [[Now there are questions for the rapporteurs...]] [[The rapporteurs have questions, to the minister later.]] To the rapporteurs... It is to the rapporteurs that I am asking this question, and if they do not know the answer, I suppose that the Minister will then reply later. Rapporteurs, why is the maximum area of the agricultural holding defined as 300 hectares in the procedated law? Why can an agricultural farmer, regardless of what activity it is, acquire land from an agency's resource of up to 300 hectares? Why 300 ha, why not 100 ha or 200 ha? How about 400 ha or 500 ha? What conditions were taken into account that precisely this size and not another size, the area of the agricultural holding was to be determined? I would like to know those conditions which indicate this, not another area of the agricultural holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u7	Thank you very much. Do the senators want to answer that question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I thought there would be three questions and only then... But I understand there's a question and an answer right away. There's a very simple answer to that question, I think. Do you remember that before entering the European Union, we had a very strong concern here as farmers that the land would be sold in accordance with free movement, with 4 rules that apply That is, the earth is in circulation. In 2003 Parliament therefore made a very important decision to limit the sale of land before the 12-year period during which negotiations were held, and then introduced the provision that the farm was a holding of 300 hectares. I think that here neither the government nor the Sejm have gone in the direction of changing the provisions of the 2003 Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. At that time the same was the record that the Agricultural Property Agency At that time, the Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury has the possibility to control the turnover. The turnover was controlled, but to a small extent. And that's why I think the government I can't say here... nor have other organizations raised much objection to this provision. Although I do not hide that many organizations reported that a family farm should be a farm of up to 100 hectares. But unfortunately, this definition has been maintained, and it has been the same since 2003. And I think this is such a compromise, which has already been agreed before, before entering the European Union, to recognise that this area is 300 hectares. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u9	Thank you. Senator Sługocki wants to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u10	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I'm not satisfied with your answer. I regret that you didn't even talk about the economic account of farming. You will admit that the type of agricultural activity, the type of agricultural holding, also determines the economic account and the profitability of such an agricultural holding. The period of work on this law was a good time to take account of such considerations. You will admit that the level of profitability of a crop-oriented farm is quite different from that of a farm in which, for example, it is not. cattle are raised. So I would like somebody to think about all of this also taking into account this type of economic rationale, in this very context, i.e.. in the context of determining the maximum area of the agricultural holding which acquires land from the Agency's stock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u11	As regards the acquisition of land from the agency's stock, in the previous provision, the 2003 Act had 500 ha for the entities. For farmers it was 300 ha. In this bill, indeed, the Ministry of Agriculture... the government has made a change decision here. He switched 500 ha to 300 ha, which means he's down to 300 ha. This is a change I didn't say about, because earlier it was about land between neighbours, and this is about land from a resource that you have now raised. Therefore, I think that... a lot of organizations and relationships, among others. we, as NSZZ.Solidarity, have been preaching for many years that the definition of a family holding should be covered by a holding which has an area of up to 100 hectares. But as I say, time flies, technology changes. Now I can say that many of my colleagues have more than 200 hectares, and are calmly able to handle more than 200 hectares. And therefore, I see no doubt now as to whether 200 ha or 100 ha are economically justified. But there are also many farmers, and very many, probably above 95% farmers with less than 50 hectares. This is the condition of farms in Poland. Therefore, no one wants to tear down this structure now, as far as the 300 ha are concerned. Of course, we have repeatedly said that there should be priorities for smaller farms, family farms. And in this bill is written here, among others. the fact that the priority is a family farm, that is, an individual farmer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u12	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The main objective of the proposed change is primarily to prevent the purchase by foreigners, by Polish citizens, from excessive concentration of... But the bill not only talks about stopping the sale of real estate from the Treasury. In general, there is also a change in the law on the shaping of the agricultural system. First of all, as part of my first question, I'd like to know. As I attended a meeting of the agricultural committee, but only in part, because the meetings were being imposed At the committee meeting, whether one or the other was mentioned... And if not, then there are ministers present and I would like to say immediately that if I do not get an answer, I will then ask these questions to the ministers. I would like to know how many millions of hectares of agricultural land are in Poland and how many thousands of hectares the Agricultural Property Agency currently has in its resources. I'm talking about the magnitude of what this bill is about. And second question: how many hectares of agricultural property have so far been sold to foreigners, and what is the percentage of agricultural land in the country? Is that 0.1%? or e.g. 1% ? 'Cause that's probably the kind of values we'd be talking about. So much for my first questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u14	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I understand that you have tabled an amendment, that amendment we have passed to the Legislative Bureau, and that it was not subject to a vote because a proposal was adopted to proceed with the adoption of a law without amendments. The discussion about this amendment was, there were many comments in committee And, as we have heard, in the Legislative Committee and in our committee. For detailed information on this matter, I'm sending the Minister. According to my knowledge, the agency now has about 1.5 million ha in its stock, it had over 4 million ha, which means that it has already sold more than 2.5 million ha in its stock. As regards the percentages provided by the Ministry, various official sources show that this is a very small percentage. From the various expertise, information, reports that show up, it follows at least this is how the Minister presented it. That probably about 200 thousand ha is on the so-called. poles and possibly after the entry into force of this law can pass... This is the information you presented to us at the committee meeting and I have heard the same many times in the Sejm. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u16	Mr. Senator, this bill limits the rotation of the land. The rules in economics are as tough as in physics. How much will the value of agricultural land in the countryside fall in connection with this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u17	Let me put it this way: I would also like to be a prophet in this matter, but I don't think there is a prophet who can say, if it can be worthwhile. I have watched the discussion that continued in that parliamentary term, and I remember the agricultural committee sending such a dissertation to the government on whether the sale of land could not be stopped. At that time, Minister Plocke replied in his writing to this dissertation that stopping the sale of land from resources would lead to a sharp rise in prices. So that's the question... The government said that if we stopped selling from the stock, it would be an incredible price increase, and now I hear that there's going to be a reverse situation, that the price will suddenly fall. At this point, it is difficult to determine who is right, whether Minister Plocke, who responded to us in writing and presented the forecasts, or whether those who preach sinister, self-fulfilling opinions that this will be brought in and the price will fall... The demand will be either up or down, we'll see. I don't think there's anyone today who would dare and say... If we stop selling from stock, Minister Plocky's statement in that term would indicate that the price should increase. [[As I understand it, you think Minister Plocke was right, don't you?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Again? [[Do you think Minister Plocke was right? That the price will go up?]] I quote because there are different opinions. Some say there's going to be a fall in price, others say there's going to be stabilisation, others say there's going to be an increase in price. So there are different opinions. I don't want to be a prophet here. That's what the experts are for. We'll wait, we'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u19	I have a question for Senator Silence. As you have said, Senator, the Legislative Commission has not taken a stand on these proposals which were made during the work of the Committee. It's very symptomatic. It is very significant that the committee does not refer to any of the proposed proposals. But I'd like to ask you about four fundamental issues that cause concern. us as senators of the Civic Platform, and of course farmers and others who own the land. First of all, has the committee considered restricting property rights? Secondly, has the committee considered restricting the right to inherit? Because these are two fundamental charges against this bill. And third, and fourth... Has the committee considered whether this law is compatible with the Constitution and whether it is compatible with European law? Because in the third, and in the fourth case, there is a danger that the law may be incompatible with our basic law and with the law of the European Union. But first of all, I am interested in these two issues: the limitation of the right to inherit and the limitation of ownership, because these allegations are most often cited by farmers and by other landowners in relation to the act proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u20	In response to the senator's inquiries, I would like to state that there were no discussions directly on these four topics. I think at this point... I don't know if I can dispel your doubts because it may be too early for that, but I think I'll dispel the senator's doubts at the right time when the discussion is over.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Florek will speak for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I have a specific question, was there a conversation about... I'm talking about investment land, especially in cities, economic development... Of course, in this case it is always necessary to buy land, land development plan... And here's the question: will the investor be able to buy the so-called. agricultural land which is not or is in the ownership of the State Treasury, where there is no spatial planning, and in the study of land-use conditions and directions, the land is intended for example. For high construction? Can such land buy an investor who would like to invest in the future... This is the land that is included in the study of circumstances, but for which there is no spatial planning plan, that is, such land can only be purchased by the farmer. Can you confirm that, Senator rapporteur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u23	The case you're talking about is mentioned in the article. 2 (2) 1 point 1b, that this restriction on sales from these resources does not apply precisely to real estate, which in the study of conditions and directions of spatial development of the municipality are intended for purposes other than agricultural purposes, among others. for residential construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u25	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Chróścikowski. Firstly, during the deliberations of the Legislative Commission, the fact that the committee had not taken a position had so many doubts was due to very serious legal doubts as to the drafting of this law. I would like to know if you raised the following problems at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Has your awareness reached the problem of the criminal code and the criminal rules that are included in this law? The point is, he snuck in there a very serious mistake. Namely, he wants to punish himself for making false statements, and the bill operates with the concept of false statements. In the Penal Code, we have two completely different crimes: false statements and false statements. And very serious doubts, even more than doubts, are raised by the fact that the buyer undertakes to make a statement. If he makes a statement that's not true, you want to punish him for making false statements. In practice, this can lead to a dead rule. There was quite a strong argument that if we had two so different crimes, it could be written that for making a false statement, it would be ordered, as for example. For the beating. This is a kind of legislative error. Did you guys even think about it? Was this discussed in any way at the committee meeting, which clearly has no objections to the bill? Secondly, were notaries' objections raised that this law could cause the following situation? The farmer built a farmhouse and wants to sell it. It may be that this house will only be able to buy another farmer. Was this the subject of any reflection at the committee meeting? Then, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, it was supported, in my opinion, by a very important amendment by Senator Zarin regarding... Because it operates in this bill, at least in its assumptions, an argument of social justice. Professor Żaryn pointed out that the deletion of the right of pre-emption for expropriated persons after World War II argued with this principle, which was written for years and which would be deleted by this law. Have you considered that? And I would also like to ask It's the last thing. The senator's response. Among our senate legal opinions is the opinion of Professor Małgorzata Korzycka. Professor, in accepting this bill, it refers to... There is such a provision at the end of 3 pages: the property is therefore inextricably linked to its protection due to the productive and profitable interest of the owner (in the study doctrine on. The protection of agricultural property was presented both in the socialist and contemporary system) and approved by Professor Małgorzata Kozycka. This law eliminates about 35 million Polish citizens from the possibility of accessing Polish land. Doesn't the senator see in this bill the return to certain socialist communist ideas about the land? Which is written in my previous legal opinion, Professor, referring to the doctrine of socialist law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u26	Mr. Senator, I can say yes. I will start with the last opinion, which we did not exactly mention at the committee's meeting, and it was difficult to get to know it and it was difficult for me on behalf of the committee to talk about it. But I'm paying attention... Because you're quoting here, talking about socialist and contemporary reality. And the modern reality is that we need to tighten this law very restrictively, one can say, towards Polish citizens, because there is no other legal option to apply the principle of banning the sale of land to foreigners. It doesn't say anywhere in this bill that we prohibit the sale of land to foreigners. Such a provision cannot be introduced because we are violating European Union law. Therefore, we create the same right for Polish citizens and citizens from other countries of the European Union. This is an obstacle for 35 million Poles. If you read European Union legislation on Germany, France, Denmark, Austria or other countries, you will see that there is even more restrictive law in other EU countries, since land is an unrepairable good. The earth cannot be recreated, the earth is the only thing that exists and cannot be changed, after all we will not move the borders. So there must be limitations for us, too, since other countries apply such restrictions. The government has taken a position, I would say, relatively mild compared to French or Danish solutions, or from other countries that have already been mentioned here. These restrictions must simply be, not only for citizens of other countries of the Union, because Polish farmers also have restrictions. We gave priority... You can reach for the act of August 5, which was passed here, after there were even more restrictive rules, e.g. prohibition on the distribution of holdings. There was a so-called one. area standard, socialist standard, voivodship standard, and that has been changed. The provisions contained in this Act are milder than in the Act of 5 August. It does not provide for the possibility of sharing, inheritance, e.g. by children. There's no way that if I have 8 ha and 4 kids, I'll split up 2 ha each. According to this law today, it will be possible to do so, and according to that law it was not possible to do so. So that there are many provisions to mitigate the restrictions so far, and those which are, have been introduced because it was considered that the inter-neighborhood turnover needs to be tightened more, and the Minister will probably talk about it. As well as seal the trading between companies. Here quite a lot is said about the transfer of shares, participations etc., etc., so that there is no flow of so-called. poles. And now, as we know, the law allows companies to acquire land. If there is minority capital, companies could have purchased land so far. The transfer of shares makes it look like the owner is the same, but the shareholders aren't the same, right? And for this reason, indeed, these limitations are large. Well, one wonders whether the European Union is socialist, whether we live in socialism or not, since other countries apply such law. [[Excuse me, but in terms of...]] About the others... Excuse me, maybe I'll have a sip of water first. As far as the Penal Code is concerned, of course there was a discussion on this issue, the legislator presented amendments. After all, you tabled an amendment by Senator Zientarski at the committee meeting. She's here. We also had a discussion, a government representative said he didn't see the need... He explained it in such a way that it doesn't really matter, because it's not a sanction that causes some kind of restriction. Well, this is a legal discussion, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not gonna argue. Some say there's no big difference, others say there is. This is a discussion for lawyers, please, let the lawyers discuss, determine what is... An amendment has been proposed, the government has not approved it. As far as the notary case is concerned, it was also a discussion on the subject and long discussions. The Minister said that there's a record about land plots up to 0.5 ha that says that the habitat up to 0.5 ha, built up, is included... I think the record of this habitat might be quoted. And if such an answer is not sufficient, please address this question to the Minister whether the habitat entry up to 0.5 ha qualifies or does not qualify And in which case yes and in which case no... Please address specific questions to the lawyers or to the Minister. Indeed, Professor Żaryn has repeatedly asked the committee and many Members of the Senators reported on this matter, including in the Sejm In order to take account of the provision on the right of priority of former heirs. I'll remind you that after the farmers' strike, after the green town... Farmers were on strike for 129 days, demanding among others. the abolition of the right of priority. Because it often turned out that owners who today do not have financial resources are poor people, ruined by the previous system, socialism that deprived them of their wealth... I can give you an example. He lives in Szczecin. A man came to him with cash, offered to buy the land, and bought it, and the farmers who had already divided the land by 20 hectares were going to buy it... So someone came, bought the land, and, of course, leased it to whoever came with him. Well, it just seems like some people don't have any money, but others come with a whole suitcase of money. They bring money, buy land on priority rights, and they get, as some colleagues say, variously predicting it, 20 and 30% so-called. excavation; they simply have an additional income from it. We were proposing a solution... I've even said that in the Senate, so that we can put in such a solution that for the property sold... I told you, let's get 20%, 30%, 40%. from this property and let's return some capital to the former heirs of the land. This can be resolved legally and can not be forced to, for example. The former owner bought his own property for the second time. Let's give it back to him. That was the offer. And I'm in favour of using this solution, not making someone break the law so he can buy his property for the second time. Let's give it back to the owners. The government said that he would think about it, so I think that this action will be taken. So much for the four questions I was supposed to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski. [[Me?]] [[Obremski.]] [[Voices from the room: Oremski, Oremski.]] [[He's having trouble with the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u28	It's okay. I have a question as to whether there has been a question of owners who have taken a mortgage under a land plot for housing purposes in the study. As a result of the entry into force of this law, the price of such a plot will fall significantly. What can you tell these people if that's the case? This case, however, often involves the danger of their losing not even their wealth, but the place where they live, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u29	There was a discussion at the committee meeting... I can answer that, Mr. Marshal, can't I? So there was a discussion. A lot of the PiS proposals were coming to us, saying... Among other things, I can say here that a farmer from Wroclaw, Kozłowski, called me many times and wrote to you, probably also... [[Yes.]] ...and to others that he has 34 a, which he wants to sell, but he won't be able to sell. And since he's in a bad economic situation, he wanted to know if he could sell it. Well, according to the rule in force, he can't do it today. We have tabled amendments here, comments... I have an amendment prepared; if anyone wants to report it and put it in, he will. In addition, I asked the Ministry to consider whether or not to give the opportunity indicated during the discussion in the Sejm... The point is, for example. The club Kukiza reported to turn off the turnover to 30 a and only above 30 a and treat it as an agricultural property. Let me remind you that we have spoken here many times about 1 ha, that the farm begins with 1 ha and to disable the land from 1 ha... the decision of the Sejm was this. We'll see what's going to happen in the Senate, see if we can agree to this and report an amendment that would disable, in accordance with the amendment tabled in the Seym, land up to 30 or, for example. to 1 ha. If such an amendment falls into question, we will make a decision. Well, it depends on the will of Parliament. So far, the government has not expressed any other position in the committee. I don't know, maybe today she'll change her mind if there's any changes. I think we can discuss that. We are a House that has the right to make decisions. [[One more question, one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u30	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal Karczewski has already informed us, from 10.00 we are to have a break at the request of the Platform Club. I don't think we're gonna be able to ask another question right now. So I'm announcing a recess until 11:00 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Dismissed until 11:00 p.m. We'll still have plenty of time. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 59 to 11 minutes 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of Józef Czapski and consider it as item six of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we continue to ask questions to the rapporteurs. I'm asking you to ask me a question... I have Senator Rotnicka registered, but I can't see her. I have Senator Augustine next, but I don't see him either. Mr. Marshal Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u32	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Chróścikowski. I'm interested in such a case, well, not quite so rare, that here a city dweller decides to move to the village and run a farm. I'd like to know what the conditions must be... Because he wants to buy them and he finds a farmer who wants to sell his farm. And I'd like to know if he can do it, under what conditions and what obligations he will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u33	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u34	I think this is a more specific question to the Minister, because he is the author, and he is the representative of the government... [[I'm the one who can quit at this stage, if you...]] I wouldn't want to be too precise in the answers, because we're still going to make amendments today, so after what we're going to adopt here today, my answer would be incomplete, so... But this is indeed the biggest problem for farmers who live... that is, for city dwellers it is the problem. I, too, had different comments on the matter, and the committee also made comments. However, I would not like to speak directly on this matter and I would ask you to address this question to the Minister. [[Okay, I'll do it again later. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u35	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would first like to refer to Senator Cichoń's statement, which in part answered my question and did not answer the second part. I meant whether the investor would be able to buy the so-called agricultural land which is or is not in the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury. Mr. Senator said that yes, if the land is owned by the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury, then the regulations that say that the study... in the plan will be excluded... And that the real estate agency will be able to sell. And the second question in my questions concerned an individual farmer and whether an individual farmer would be able to acquire property from another farmer. Because it is well known that if we only have a study and we do not have a spatial planning plan, we treat everything practically as agricultural land. And now the question is: will the farmer be able to acquire such property from an individual farmer? And it turns out that there are no exemptions for the Agricultural Property Agency as regards individual farmers. And this case concerned, among other things, my amendment, which I tabled at the agricultural committee meeting, as we treat the individual farmer and the real estate agency unevenly. Because an individual farmer can dispose of the property, but to a loved one, to a church That's what's been added, and that's the only thing that's possible. And I meant to stress that we have unequal treatment of the individual farmer and the real estate agency here. So much for correcting the question. And now the next question. I'm talking about the value of the property. The point is whether, in a situation where the sale of real estate from the Treasury stock is suspended for 5 years, the limitation of buyers only to individual farmers is what was already a question In this case, the value of real estate will not be reduced. I'm sure it'll cause a little bit of this as an asset valuer to confirm. But there is a second element of all this: that as a result of these changes there may also be an increase in the value of real estate. If these sales restrictions were introduced only by individual farmers and in the city, when we do not have a spatial planning plan and there is only a study, it would be so that only a farmer can acquire such property. Therefore, there is a limited area of real estate which will be used for investment purposes and which can be purchased. Therefore, it is to be expected that if such real estate For example, under housing construction, under the services will be less, property prices will increase. Do you agree that we are dealing with the fact that, as a result of the introduction of this law, farmers may lose value for property, but it may also affect the value of the land in the city, for example. Turns out, as a result of these changes, the apartment will be more expensive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u37	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u38	I can answer that, right? Mr. Senator, on this last point, I don't want to speak because I'm not an economist, I'm a lawyer, so I don't know if these changes are going to lead to an increase or a fall in the value of real estate. It was Senator Chróścikowski who spoke on this subject. As far as the first question is concerned, it is possible to exclude it from the operation of this law, in the article. 11 exemption is provided for, here an indication that this law does not apply to built-in agricultural land with an area not exceeding 0,5 ha. Therefore, there is no such restriction here. If it were unbuilt land, that rule would unfortunately work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u40	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I go back to this basic question: what does it mean to buy or sell 300 ha? Does this mean that the host, who at the moment has e.g. 200 ha, won't he be able to buy another 200 or 300 ha? Does that mean he won't be able to have a larger farm than 300 hectares? And if that's the case, what about those who have over 300 hectares, because there are situations. [[If...]] So this is also an inequality of approach, an inequality in a situation that we want to give to our farmers. Besides, I have one more question. What area of agricultural land does the Catholic Church now have? That might be interesting for me, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u41	I'll start at the end. I don't know what area of land the Catholic Church owns, because how would I know that? I've never been interested in that. If I'd known there'd be a question like that, I'd be interested. As for the previous question, I will say that there is indeed this limit of 300 ha. He doesn't apply to those people who already have over 300 hectares, because it's a state of the art, and we can't make any regulations that... I don't know what they're supposed to be about. About expropriating these people from the surplus? That would be completely unjustified. This is a condition that exists, as it is said, adopted with some kind of inventory benefit, and these people benefit from the fact that they have such an area. By the way, I would like to remind you that this limit of 300 ha is, of course, set by law. It can be discussed whether or not it is to be different, but in most countries it is so that certain limits are set. In countries such as: The Netherlands, where the country's surface is much smaller and every fist of land is used, even the sea is torn out, these limits are even lower. This concerns whether the definition of the agricultural holding or the limits for the size of the agricultural holdings to be purchased. So it is a matter which stems from the fact that, in general, national policies aim to prevent the emergence of a kind of years of funding and to enable the implementation of the article in our case. 23 Constitution, which states that family farms are supported in Poland. The limit of these 300 ha seems to be quite reasonable in conditions, Primo, the area of agricultural land in Poland, secundo, the number of farmers, tertio, certain requirements of economic nature, because of course there must be certain areas for the economy to be conducted rationally.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Pupa's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators, the rapporteur! I have a question about the price of land and speculation. It is known that the farmer wants to buy the land at a good price, at a price that will correspond to its profitability. We know how profitable it is in agriculture, we know what it looks like today, so the farmer sure wants to buy the land reasonably cheap. In the meantime, I see a situation where many senators insist that the prices of land will fall, that there will be low prices of land. In the past I have observed, because I was also an employee of the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury, e.g. such a phenomenon that non-farmers bought out very large areas of land, and this land often did not give birth, was set aside. I would like to ask Senator Chróścikowski as well as Senator Zbigniew whether this bill will protect against speculative land trading and give farmers a chance to buy land at fair prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u44	You're welcome. [[Senator Chróścikowski as head of individual farmers probably has more experience than I do.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I've already mentioned the value of... The questions were, even a moment ago, there was such a question for Senator Silence. I want to draw attention to one thing: the one who wants to sell wants to take for it, as the senator said, as much as possible, and the one who wants to buy, wants to buy as cheap as possible. That's market law. I think it is, and I think it will be. This law will limit It's never gonna be possible to completely eliminate "Multiple rotation of land for speculative purposes." She's gonna make those nasty cases of making money off the land. It will give farmers stability, it will stabilise the price, which will make farmers sell at prices, let's call it cost-effective land for production. Because this land is intended to serve agricultural production. Well, it can't be as it has been so far, that in some parts of Poland 100 thousand PLN was paid for 1 ha, and in other regions of the country 10 thousand PLN was paid for comparable land. Ten times the difference... There's no profitability here because the farmer who bought it for $100,000 won't return the money. Today we have many bankrupt farmers who have borrowed and bought the land of 80,000 each, 60,000 each. There are already preliminary recoverys in the case of these farmers, because they are unable to repay at this price... In my opinion, this bill will stabilise the price. It also contains a mechanism, I would say, similar to the one used by a French agency called SAFER. Remember that SAFER, which had worked before, bought land from farmers at a price higher than it was on the market. When the price drops sharply, the agency has a pre-emptive obligation to purchase at market price. So the agency should buy this land at market price, which is the one that's on the market. In this way, it will, in a sense, inhibit the fall in price below the average which is in the region concerned. It's also a stabilizing mechanism. He can function both this way and this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u47	To see President Chróścikowski. Mr. Senator, head of the agricultural union, but most of all, the landlord... [[Farmer...]] ...farmer with a lot of experience! Why is this sacred number of 300 ha engraved on these stones of Polish agriculture, since 300 ha in Bieszczady, in Rzeszowszczyzna it is something other than 300 ha in Kujawy? That's one thing. Even the communists made a distinction between the size of the farm in Pomerania, Wielkopolska and mountain areas. It's not Holland, where almost everywhere is the same. And a second question for you as, I think, a good host. You are very defending this Polish land... I would rather say the role, because the land is something else. Do you not forget, Mr Senator, also as chairman of the committee, that, yes, the land can be lost on the basis of purchase-sales, but it can also be lost as a result of trade? It participates in cooperatives, producer groups, other mixed economic projects and can therefore be lost or enlarged. The Earth can also be lost as a result of financial operations And that's a bad loan, and that's a greedy bank. How do you imagine the functioning of a modern host who, I would say, plays a lot of organizational, commercial and financial instruments? And finally, one last question. You are very committed to equalizing subsidies in Poland to the level that is in Western European countries. Wouldn't it be necessary to increase Polish farmers' subsidies twice in relation to British people, for example, where only 40 000 farmers manage land with a commodity potential equal to Poland, while in Poland 1 million 200 thousand? Therefore, will it not be necessary to increase the subsidy as a result of this blockade of the commodity economy on the ground?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u48	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u49	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski, I can say that you have great credit for creating and cooperating with farmers, we remember Bydgoszcz and those meetings, and I value a lot of your work together in order to create And I have to say that we certainly have one common denominator here when we're talking about the fact that we want family farms to work their best. What I'm saying is that our union model was 100 ha, we kept saying 100 ha. But, as I said before, in 2003 the folk party was passed the SLD and the PSL, 300 ha. The government doesn't want to change that definition, it leaves it. I said that there are already our farmers in the RI who have farms of over 200 hectares and manage to... And there are those who have less. So we do not want to define regionalisation in Poland. I would like to point out that in Podkarpacie, in the Przemysl region, in Zamość, there are large farms, 500 ha each, 1 thousand ha each, but also 200 ha each or 100 ha each. There are such farms, especially in the Popegeer area. There's also a region. We're talking about the east wall. In which there are also such holdings. So it is a diversity even in one region, and it is not so that we have Poland the same; I will say here that we also have large farms in our region, in Lublin region, in Podkarpacie, in Przemyśl. These are areas where there are actually large farms. So it is difficult for us at the moment to define and say, "Let's do something new, let's divide Poland into bigger and smaller... I think that since this direction is being given, let's stick to that direction and don't try to change it, because there are a lot of proposals. My fellow trade unionists also suggested: let's divide the area, divide into voivodships, put here proposals not only physical, but also land that would be counted, converted... So there are many proposals. But, let's say, in the fifth grade, that would be almost 600 ha if we were class V to class I. And in the first grade, you know perfectly well, it's 1.8 ha, so we'd reduce again... Let's not do all the things that would complicate our lives. Let's simplify. That's what I'm asking: let's simplify. Let us move towards as much simplification as possible for farmers. As far as disposal is concerned, certain mechanisms in this bill are recorded. This is where the Minister will say that if we introduce restrictions by making the agency enter with the priority of acquisition, so that all the things that the bailiffs are doing today 'Cause it's the bailiffs' business. And by the banks... However, so that the agency can intervene at this point so that it is not so that the bailiff sells the land at some price that suddenly flows out, and the farmer loses the land five times the value, because the bailiff sells and there are those who do not want to buy, but there is someone who will buy such land sometimes for 1/5 of the value. And we suggested that they be in the bill so that at the time described, the agency could help, intervene, so that farmers would not be harmed. And already the economic decision of each of us farmers is that he takes credit, and for that decision he takes responsibility. This is where the common agricultural policy we have discussed many times is bowing down. And you asked if it was necessary to lift... I'm not talking about raising. I'm talking about a level playing field. Let them be equal for the Frenchman, for the German, for the Englishman and for the Pole. That doesn't mean... Today, EU policy is not driven by an increase, this policy is moving towards equalisation, reduction. Those who have a lot, have less, and those who have less, have to strive for an average. This is the policy today in the 2014-2020 perspective, so all of this is being applied and so they want to predict further, in order to reduce the aid rather than increase it, i.e. to equalise it. That is the trend of the Union today. If we as Poland change this, it depends on us, on the Polish government and on Polish farmers Whether they can fight a faster levelling or not. There's a problem. But this is one of the objectives of the economic viability investigation of farms, one of the objectives of the subsidy. And the main objective is to make the direct creation of the product that the farmer produces. whether it's in plant or animal production. He should be paid for the right product. And the differences in subsidies are only the result of non-competitiveness in the global markets that exist. After all, let us remember that there are European and global markets. And today, the price on the Chicago Stock Exchange decides how much grain costs, how much it costs, let's say, rape. It cannot be that we will maintain this price without evening out these competitive international markets. Because there are other conditions in the United States, there are others in Brazil, there are others in New Zealand. And it has to be compensated somehow. And that's what the common agricultural policy or other policy is for, in the United States it's called... The U.S. has a bill farm, that's what they call it. support mechanism. So that every country has a policy. That's why as far as your question on compensation is concerned... There must certainly be a level playing field for competitiveness. As farmers, we demand nothing more than that we have a level playing field in the European Union and opportunities for global competition. That's as much as I can add.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u51	Mr. Marshal, a question for Senator Chróścikowski. Did you analyze such a problem at the committee meeting that in the resources of the Agricultural Property Agency, but also in the possession of individual farmers, there are often properties that are not only for agricultural purposes? I mean, for example. Some production halls or other facilities. They're on agricultural land. Or maybe. palaces. It is especially visible in the western and northern lands, where there are many such palaces. And they're on agricultural land. Will such properties, halls or other facilities where it is possible to run, or even other types of enterprises, which are located on agricultural land, be traded? After the entry into force of the law, this case will be clearly difficult. Second problem. Have you analysed at the committee meeting the situation in which a farmer takes a loan for such agricultural property? This problem was suggested here by Senator Rulewski. And it could happen that the farmer goes bankrupt and the bank owns the farm. In the light of the provisions of the Act discussed here, will such a misappropriation be possible? Because in order for farmers to be able to acquire these farms, agricultural land, they must have the appropriate qualifications, etc., they must comply with certain conditions under the Act. If the banks couldn't take advantage of this situation... I'm not saying they have to do this, but if they couldn't, then the price of the loan to farmers could be increased. And the third case. I think she's decided because he was... I couldn't find it in the bill. In the version discussed in the Sejm, there was a record that land buyers, agricultural land may only be people fulfilling different conditions, including that they must be KRUS payers and cannot be ZUS payers. Previously, the Polish state encouraged farmers to move to the ZUS for reasons known to them. And today it would turn out that... at least in the original version, the Seym was so that the case was not ruled out. Has this issue been clarified and not possibly need a debate? Thank you very much. If these issues have not been analysed, then this will be a question for the Minister. So, please... I don't want to take your time in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u52	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u53	Mr. Senator raised here the issue of buildings placed... Well, everyone knows perfectly well that we farmers have the opportunity to build farm buildings on our land for us to manage. Barns, buildings, different halls, etc., which are what they do. So we can... And so if a farmer sells a farm, he sells it with these buildings. Well, it's the same recipe that says... And when it comes to credit, it's a complex matter. There's gonna be a long discussion about whether they're going to be higher or lower... It might turn out we're predicting something, but it's gonna be different. But there's always economics. And this is the biggest problem of Polish farmers: that there is no stability of income that farmers have... [[Mr. Senator, the question is different.]] ...problem with maintenance... Whether he falls into a credit trap or falls into a trap, or the value of the land... We've all discussed this so many times that I don't want to discuss it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u54	Mr. Senator, I was asking about a different kind of situation. We separate the palace, old or unrefurbished. And what I'm talking about is whether a palace like this, along with the surrounding land, can only buy a farmer... [[Yes.]] Is there another person out there who wants to do some other work or refurbished a palace like this? Or can such a person buy a hall in which he wants to start a carpenter's shop if in the land register at the Agricultural Property Agency or at the farmer's... if such a hall is in the agricultural area?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u55	I think the specific question should be for the Minister. I will not argue with what the Minister is presenting here. I'm just going to say one thing: there's a record of a habitat up to 0.5 ha, so we read in the bill. We did not discuss this at the committee meeting, so please address this question to the Minister. I think that if any more comments are made, the amendment can always be tabled. But I repeat, there is only a record that in the case of a habitat up to 0.5 ha, built in part, there is a possibility. About the KRUS... The KRUS case, as I said at the beginning, was our motion, the Senate committee, before work began in the Sejm. The government accepted the offer, turned it off... There was a proposal of 20 ha, then 50 ha, and finally in the Sejm it was decided that there would be no obligation to be in the CRU in the definition of an individual farmer. It's gone, it's done as you expect. [[It's either ZUS or KRUS. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u57	Mr President, I am interested in the issue of public consultation. Were there representatives of the agricultural organisations concerned at the committee meeting, and in particular, were there representatives of the national audit union of agricultural cooperatives? That's the first question. Two. Have you considered the situation of agricultural cooperatives after the introduction of this law? Cooperatives are most likely treated as organisations, so they will have reduced operating conditions in relation to what has been done so far, because they are being reduced by this limit. How can it be reconciled with the European and Polish efforts to ensure that farmers join forces to create cooperatives, producer groups and that the competitiveness of such organisations on the Polish market is growing? Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u58	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u59	Senator, there was quite a broad discussion in the committee, and the Sejm was very strongly debated on this subject, and I have repeatedly asked even from this speaker, including my colleagues from the committee, that we should take part in the work in the Sejm and keep an eye on these issues at the stage of the work in the Sejm. I attended the Seym meetings, participated in them many times and saw representatives of the cooperative council and many others, there were consultations conducted earlier... Let me remind you that the first printing that was, as it were, launched into unions, organizations, was subject to consultation, and all the opinions were... The Ministry of Agriculture, although the deadline expired, consulted, gathered opinions, the cooperative council and others took part. We also invited the organizations that wanted to come to our meeting, the future ones, the former tenants' representatives, Mr. Nowak, who represented the tenants, many others participated, discussed the subject... The Helsinki Foundation, which also wrote opinions, etc. [[But at your committee meeting, Mr. Chairman?]] Our committee. We were officially invited, not overnight, because the meeting was convened a few days in advance, everyone could come, could participate in this... Well, the decision is a decision, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to make a decision today, so we're moving this discussion from the committee to our plenary session.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, during the committee's meeting during the discussion, did the subject of the legal situation of the operators wishing to pursue on agricultural land appear and have been examined... So far this has been happening very often, NGOs on agricultural land have often built, organized charity centres for those in need: unemployed, disabled... What is the legal situation of these entities? And isn't that an inequality towards the law of non-governmental organisations and religious unions that really want to pursue a very similar, socially acceptable, charitable purpose? Was this the subject of a debate during the committee's work?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u62	In general, there was no discussion about other actors. We know what project came from the Sejm, we know that the record is what it is right now, and we're discussing whether other relationships, or not, can be involved... In general, the Act says that the individual farmer has priority, that is, in this direction, economic operators are not mentioned here, it is only that for economic activity, enumerated enumeratively in land development plans... These are all things. As far as the above mentioned provisions are concerned, there was no big discussion here beyond what you have already mentioned, the exceptions that are already in the present law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u64	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, I have a question. Some people here have already asked that question. on Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's I would like to ask why technology parks, industrial parks, logistics centres, housing and so on are mentioned in particular. You generally referred to it as a construction of general interest, but I do not see such a wording here. They are mentioned here, but are not mentioned here for example educational facilities, cultural facilities, medical care facilities. I'd like to ask you to clarify this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u65	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u66	Thank you. Senator, there was no discussion about this to add or not add. As for the point that is being changed, I will remind you that in the project in the Seym there was 1 ha... At this point, in item 4, it is written: farm property with an area of up to 2 hectares, and earlier it was 1 ha, it was changed in the Seym. There were no other comments here at the committee meeting. If you have any comments, please report them. This was not addressed in detail by the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u68	Mr. Senator, in the article. The 7th Law was amended in the Sejm by the 2003 Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. This was an amendment to the Law and Justice. In addition to the individual farmer, the buyer of the agricultural land may be: legal persons acting on the basis of the provisions on the relationship of the State to the Catholic Church in the Republic of Poland, on the relationship of the State to other churches and religious associations and on the guarantees of freedom of conscience and religion. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the last part of this entry. Was there any reference to examples that legal persons, in terms of guarantees of freedom of conscience and religion, will be able to acquire agricultural property and for what purpose will they acquire it? And the second question: will the Evangelical Lutheran Church based in Munich, which has 10.5 million faithful, be able to buy agricultural land in Poland after the amendment of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u69	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u70	Thank you. This is actually a topic, let's call it, the duty officer who's all up. There was a discussion at the committee meeting. The Minister presented his position and made it clear that it is being introduced as if to the objectives of most donations, which in most cases the faithful want to pass on to, say, some monasteries or others... that they want to pass on their, say, real estate in the form of donations or other, and they can accept... The meeting also talked about what was going to happen because there were questions about it. Where there is a recurrence of trade. So here's the law of priority for the real estate agency. Then the agency, if it wants to sell... The agency is about this speculative turnover that we so often talk about, that the agricultural land, however, will serve farmers for agricultural purposes and will not be the so-called acquisition. speculative trading. Such statements were made here from the Minister's mouth, and I can only quote what was said. Please ask the Minister for more specific questions. [[Another ad vocem, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u72	In that case, Mr. Senator, as I understand it, the farmer will be able to hand over the farm property to the church institution for care, as you said, as well as the minister... [[That was the Minister's opinion at the committee meeting.]] Therefore, I have a question: will the farmer be able to transfer the agricultural property for the care of another person, another farmer who takes care of that person or other associations with a similar nature of action Because in return for this he promised that e.g. He's gonna get the land? Does this apply only to the transfer of real estate for the care of the church, and others cannot obtain such value? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u73	I think that in so much detail at the committee meeting about this... [[Quiet, please!]] ...we didn't discuss it. My knowledge at this stage is that it can pass in form, e.g. Testament or... And at this point, if I write down testamentically that this property will be transferred, then the will will be in force and the property will be transferred. And the agency will then have the right to enter, if it considers it appropriate, and possible interference. But he'll be able to willfully pass on anyone, just like the senator mentioned. [[But it's more about...]] At least that's my knowledge at this stage. [[It's about custody while he's alive, not about the will.]] I said the farmers want to pass it on. That's all I know at this stage. Ask the Minister if there are other forms. I told you what I know. In the discussion that has been held so far, the Minister has clearly indicated this element in the work on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u74	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u75	Mr. Marshal, I'm here to see Senator Chróścikowski. Senator, in your earlier statement, you said that the draft law in relation to the laws in force in other countries is less restrictive. I allowed myself to print the laws from three countries, Hungary, Germany and France, because I didn't make it. I do not want to engage in a substantive discussion, but please tell me which elements in these countries of the European Union are more restrictive to your knowledge. You're the one who said they're more restrictive than the bill. That's the first question. Second: was there a situation at the committee meeting on the need to increase agency employment? How much longer will the employment increase? How much will the agency's operating cost be greater after the introduction of this law? Was this subject discussed? And if he wasn't, do you have any knowledge of that? And two short questions about qualifications. Mr. Senator, you're a specialist in these matters. Please tell me whether the qualifications for acquiring land contained in the draft law concern only the completion of agricultural school, or whether they can also be acquired through work, i.e. A certificate that you've worked for many years? And one last brief question about your statement about the church. You said that the church for the care or the will would receive land, and then the agency would be watching over any speculation. Are you suggesting that the church will deal with speculation of the earth?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u76	You're welcome. [[A land turnover?]] [[May I?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u77	As for the last question, I quote not my suggestions, but the Minister's... [[Oh, that's okay.]] The Minister has explained this subject many times, I was merely quoting it. As for the churches, I have no right to express the opinion of the committee because that was not the opinion, so I do not express it on behalf of the committee. And is it speculative? The question was whether or not... So this is a suggestion that there is a second law that regulates a mechanism saved in the law. That's the line. As far as qualifications are concerned... Well, the qualifications haven't changed much. After all, there was also a record of qualifications in the previous law. It's the same. Living or working together on a farm is a qualification you know. I think it's the same thing. When it comes to employment... Employment is indeed a very important issue. But it will already be the decision of the supervisory agency itself whether or not we need to hire more. We're saying the sale won't be for five years. In my opinion, since there will not be so much sales in the initial stage, then maybe there will not be so much work to be done, maybe there will be time to control the acts. Because I repeat: all we talk about is the right of priority, not the obligation. Because we all think the agency's gonna buy everything. The agency won't be able to buy all this because there's no such money or opportunity. It's just in situations... So far, on a very small scale, this law has been used by the agency. It could be that there's not much... This statutory provision has the so-called. preventive nature. It's gonna work preventively. It doesn't have to work as hard as we all think. I don't think it has to be tall, but this life will show. Life will show you what it's gonna be like. When it comes to comparing... I don't have the data on me. I don't want to argue. If there's a need, we'll meet and discuss which country. I have observed various French solutions and there is indeed a different model than in Poland, there is a social model, which has been operating for years. It's different in Germany. In Germany decide regional or land actors, well, there is a federation system and in each land there are other solutions. Often these are solutions... I have observed in Germany the activities of such an agency, which operates on a commercial basis, buys land, sometimes expropriates, but offers a farmer another farm, changes the spatial planning, allocates for investments, etc., and earns on it, lives out of it. Banks are also involved, but there is a 51 percent share of the State Treasury in such institutions. I think decisions are being made in the Netherlands. Whether it's okay or not... So that different solutions are used in different countries. I wouldn't want to start discussing this right now. The Minister has all the material on the various legal solutions prepared and he's probably happy to answer you. [[Mr. Marshal, one sentence, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u78	Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u79	Mr. rapporteur, I didn't ask for a comparison because it was a waste of time. I just asked... You said that in many countries, or actually in most countries, the land trading system is more restrictive than the one we're introducing. Could you just point out the most restrictive elements? One, two. Well, I don't expect you to know them all by heart.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u80	For example, a decision must be made in the Dutch system And it's a more restrictive system, because here it doesn't have to be made decisions, so it's easier because a farmer can buy land without waiting for a decision. [[Doesn't the agency have to make a decision?]] No, the agency has priority only if... the bill lists enumeratively the situations in which the right of priority is excluded. I don't want to quote it here, you have it in the bill. It is now the case that if within 30 days the agency did not file, then automatically the preliminary act was... I suspect it will be the same now. If the agency doesn't file, the acts will be filed...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u82	Mr. Senator, can the buyer of agricultural property by sitting only be an individual farmer? The Civil Code regulates when property can be acquired by sitting for 20 years, 30 years, in bad faith, in good faith. However, here we limit this only to an individual farmer within the meaning of the provisions of this law, provided that all his land does not exceed 300 ha. I have a question as to whether this subject was discussed at the committee meeting. Well, since there's a limit only to an individual farmer when it comes to sitting, should that be a limit of 300 hectares? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u83	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u84	There was no detailed discussion on this subject. There was information about this, but we have not analysed this subject in detail, so today we can debate it and possibly make amendments if you think that this is a need. This issue has been raised repeatedly in various discussions. We have an opportunity today. Take it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u85	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I have a question in connection with the fact that the bill is added to the article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1a as follows: The Agency may, at the request of a person who owns the property of the Resource without a legal title, cancel, postpone or set aside the debts arising from that title if the person has exercised the property in good faith. Have you ever considered defining the catalogue of circumstances in which redemption will take place and in which deferrals or instalments? Will this be the exclusive competence of an agency whose officials will decide on a discretionary basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u88	Thank you. This entry was already included in the bill. I paid attention to this when we changed here the date of entry into force of this law or vacathio legis. This is a very serious problem, he has emerged in connection with the introduction of the so-called entry in the 2003 Act. punishing farmers with five times the rent. If someone was 10 q, 5 times the height was 50 q. This is a serious challenge. As farmers, we asked the government to solve this problem as soon as possible, because until the agency had no information from the Agricultural Property Agency about the farmers' payments, it did not know that, so farmers cultivated land and charged subsidies. They often cultivated land on neighboring PEZ sites; if they hadn't grown it, forests and so on would have grown. And they were doing this land in good faith. And often, as you remember from history... When I was working in the local government, I was working on an agricultural paper. And then we said to the farmers, "Do it, because it's a shame for this land to be left alone." So once it was the municipalities that managed these resources, then it went back to the agency. She really didn't interfere with anything, so farmers grew this land, and now they get demands to pay rent up to 3, 4 years back, and sometimes even 10 years back. And they'll be almost on the verge of bankruptcy right now if they have to meet these requirements. That's why in that act of August 5 there was a record, only extended, because it was still included, as I remember, the opinion of the farmhouse, and here there is no opinion... So this record is needed for farmers, and I think that the agency can come up with a solution in certain situations... There's a record here: not in bad faith. He gives the agency the opportunity to spread payments into instalments, redemptions, etc. This is the opposite of farmers in this situation. And I know that at least in my voivodeship, in Lublin, there are several thousand farmers who are asked to pay their rent. They often really used these properties in good faith, and now they're being punished for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u89	May I? Thank you. Mr. Senator, I am not questioning this record and this solution. I'm just asking if we'll have a catalogue of homogeneous solutions. And whether on the territory of the entire Polish country we will be consistent, unified with certain solutions proposed just in our mouths. 1a of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u90	I think that except for the Minister The president of the agency has set up the so-called social councils to give an opinion in order to express an opinion on the matter... They will consult and develop them in different regional or national departments, but this discussion must take place at the stage of the organisation, the relationship, it must be socialised. I think we're gonna want to sort it out somehow. However, the specificity is so different that we do not try to catalog everything, because we simply cannot solve certain problems of farmers. We can't narrow it all down too much, but let's trust here that we, who are taking part in this whole precedent, want a good solution that won't hurt. However, I would also like to draw attention to the provisions of this law, which are very unfavourable. It is a matter of record that there can be no consent to the acquisition of real estate if the property is charged by contractual use, etc., so there are further restrictions on farmers, very sanctioning, let us draw attention to it. This problem with farmers really needs to be resolved. [[I, Senator, as a man of deep faith, mean only to eliminate discretion. It is only a matter of not having such a situation that a farmer in the X voivodship, who is in a situation with certain parameters, will be treated diametrically differently from a farmer who is 800 km away, but also within the territory of the Polish State. Thank you very much.]] I, too, am only guided by good faith and hope that this will be done honestly by the real estate agency and that it will serve the institutional agency, which has the task of fulfilling its responsibilities reliably and also helping farmers in this situation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Hare. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u92	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! When I listen to statements and analyze the matter of the bill, I come to the conclusion that its breadth and sensitivity is incomparable with many laws or even with most of the laws that have been discussed here so far. Therefore, I would venture to propose one thing: I take into account that regulations of this kind are necessary, but I would suggest that this matter be really carefully considered, it may even put away for some time. And that's because the consequences will be very profound. In discussing these issues, we are constantly discovering in our neighborhood some cases that can really damage our agriculture. And the other side of the case is something like this. Looking at the arguments that motivate the adoption of this law and its consequences, I must say that the set of arguments on the side of the argument somehow weakens me more and more. There's one thing I'm missing here... I mean, aren't we guided by such certain Polish fears sometimes? Because friends and family living in Potsdam talk about things we don't usually know about, i.e. that such threats of redemption by aliens of our land Well, such fears are historically rooted in us somewhere, probably even genetically already. They're kind of acting the other way: that's where our people bought a huge amount of housing, land, and somehow it all works. We've got a couple of cases like this. So, let's say we're twisted. Which we motivate ourselves with, and immediately we want it so statutory that, so to speak, we cut with the blade. This is an important matter, extremely important. I live in the country, I have the authority of a farmer, and I know exactly how the village listens to what is said about this bill. Which is why I would very much ask that, if I could, I really put it off for a while to get my attention, and that it didn't happen the way it did this morning when we had to... I mean, the law on the regulation of the residence of foreign troops in Poland has been passed by the committee, but we have only introduced grammatical amendments, so that this law has been passed, so that as in some sense a little cripple it will enter into force. And the point is to avoid it in this case, because it's about matter from a huge area. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Senator... may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u93	Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u94	Senator, I say one thing: we have the date of April 30th as the date of entry into force of this law, so we must introduce it if we want to maintain the proposals of the Sejm. We can of course say that we are not in favour of this, we can reject this law and then the act of August 5 would apply. But I would like to point out that nearly 50% of the provisions of that law are in this law. What we've been negotiating with that government as part of the agricultural protests for four years now, also within the green town, for these 129 days... these things have been negotiated and written down. Now most of them are being transferred to these records. and specific, more or less, but they're more limited... And I think we need to introduce this bill. The government announced at the committee meeting, and I also heard in the Sejm that after 3 or 4 months I wanted to do an analysis of all this and cases that would make it difficult or wrong, if that were the case It is ready to correct, correct, etc. So this is to be clarified. We change laws so many times... I warn you, let's not want to throw something out here, let's do something... As my colleague said here: let's make the bill more restrictive, then it can be relaxed, but then it's harder to increase restraint. Therefore, let us not be afraid of even the restrictions that are here today because of the government's announcements I've heard it and it's repeated. It appears that this will be analysed, that we will be able to make amendments. And secondly, we have the opportunity to take our own initiative, too, and we can take the initiative and regulate things that really make things harder. - If they're like this. Or they're against the constitution. I would not like to use words saying that this is a law against the sale of land to foreigners, because there is no such character written there. There isn't. We cannot do this because we would break European Union law. She creates difficult conditions for the farmer of the European Union as well as for the Polish farmer. She's not going straight towards a ban on the sale of land to foreigners. This 1920 law can be said to have been passed by our grandparents in 1920 forbidding the sale of land to foreigners. This bill has been amended, adapted to the conditions. I can regret that. Our farmers often ask why there is no 1920 law that forbids... which provided that the Polish state must protect itself against historical ones. Okay, we'll keep that in mind. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm I would not be afraid that Poles buy in Germany, because Germans do not fear that Poles buy... They're not afraid of it in France either. But our fellow countrymen fear this, and that is why we need to make such records as they are in other countries. Maybe not literally in the same sense, maybe different. Like I said: better records, worse ones, but let's enter them, because we need to protect the land from That's what I call it. And they often say that speculative capital is also of origin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Staron. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the senator. Actually, I have three short questions. The first point, for me, is it quite important: was there a committee meeting... or was there even an enforcement procedure? We know very well that many farmers are very often in financial difficulties; we meet with this on a daily basis. I'd like to know what happens when there's a bid. What then is the issue of regulation when it comes to the buyer? Is this supposed to buy back the agency or the entities mentioned? And whether the valuation is the same as that referred to in Article. 2a bill? And yet we know that in auction we can sometimes reach an amount that is much higher than from the operatium and estimations. So what's it look like? Does this not harm the debtor in the case of different creditors when the creditor is an institution, e.g. A bank or a natural person? I'd like to know what it's like to put an end to enforcement proceedings when agricultural property is a subject. or agricultural land. That's the first line. Two. I'd like to know... I'm talking about the monuments listed in the monument register. I am from Warmia and Mazury, where there are many objects, very damaged objects, which are palaces, farmhouses, but of course with related agricultural properties, or are agricultural land in parts built up e.g. A palace. The objects are very damaged. From what I remember, these properties are never purchased by individual farmers; for various reasons, even because it is under the care of the monument conservator, and everyone knows what this causes not only administrative problems but, above all, financial problems. However, passionate people who do not have the rights of individual farmers can Today to acquire such objects and restore their historical value. This is our legacy, so I'd like to know what this line looks like. And three more... I'm guessing that was the subject of the committee's deliberations. I'd like to know if there was a speech at the committee meeting... I'd like the senator to clarify what the term... Because we talk about opinions all the time. There's the head of the agency, and he's actually gonna decide if anyone's going to decide, and that's what the question is. It guarantees the proper pursuit of agricultural activities. What's the situation? Art. 2a indicates which operators, in addition to individual farmers, can acquire agricultural real estate, agricultural land. The directory of entities is closed. There are still two cases in which a natural person can acquire them: when a seller makes an application... But the seller must first exhaust the entire catalog, i.e. it cannot. separate a piece of his farm and want to have a neighbor who is his longtime friend, make him live next door. This situation is unacceptable, because first it exhausts this directory. Unless the purchaser gives the guarantee of proper agricultural activity. That's the first line. Now it's a matter of a natural person. The law allows it to be a natural person, but once again there is an opinion here, a decision only of the head of the agency, which can say yes, can say no, because there is lit. b, which provides: guarantees the proper pursuit of agricultural activities. That's why I want to ask you this question. Plus, there's still a need to live for five years. I have a question. What if he doesn't live for five years? What then? Is there a penitentiary? Or, for example, After 4 years, you will take the land you acquired to a natural person who already has agricultural qualifications? [[Senator, ask questions.]] I'm almost done. That's the last line. I'd like to know about the art. 2b, because... Or no, maybe it'll be another question to stop stalling. I'd like the senator to answer these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u98	Senator, I have to say yes. At the committee meeting there were not such detailed discussions, we did not analyse it in such detail. This is a very specific question for the Minister. These are enforcement cases, so this is a more question to the Legislative Commission, which deals with this area of law. We didn't discuss this at the committee meeting, so it's hard for me to come up with a whole statement here, just like you did. I propose to address this question to the Minister. There was also a discussion about these lands, monuments, etc., about whether passionate or valuable or other matters. All these questions are addressed directly to the Minister. Or maybe the president of the agency will tell you or anyone else who knows these cases. For me, the credibility of state institutions should always be, if someone doesn't do something, they are subject to certain sanctions. It is not possible to function, assuming that the state is acting badly, the state institutions are acting badly. The idea is always that everything will be done in good faith, so that, as you have already stated here, it gives us a guarantee. Ask the Minister in detail about all this, as I, as well as you, read all the laws, and these questions are further addressed. We didn't talk about it that much on the committee, we didn't discuss it. These are very precise questions, directly to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have a question. On the one hand, These are the provisions of the law allowing Polish farmers to acquire land according to their aspirations, farmers wishing to develop and create competitive farms in Poland, when we are in the European Union... I think it is worth adding that Polish farmers are a professional group here. perhaps the most satisfied of our presence in the European Union. I have a question. In addition to discussing those issues that regulate the trading of real estate in the agency's resources, have you talked about the second, perhaps more important element of this process, namely the possible mobilisation of State aid, the Minister responsible for agriculture, i.e. preferential loans, which would enable Polish farmers to acquire land and develop agricultural holdings? Were there such voices while working on this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u102	Thank you. I want to say one thing: we certainly haven't discussed this so much. In other problem committees, when we dealt with such matters, we talked about it many times. I remember the 2003 law that introduced a 2% loan. Let us remember that the European Union has already prohibited us from using the so-called. preferential credit. Now there's a commercial loan, he's got a calculated coefficient and the agency's applying it. He's more favorable than bank loans. The agency has that possibility. Except when we're generally holding back sales, we're not talking about big preferences. In the intra-neighbour trade there is only a loan that can be used, within the framework of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture there are credit lines for various projects, you can use it. In any event, this was not the subject of a detailed discussion in the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u104	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Of course, there are different situations in different parts of the country. We know that Polish agriculture in the west of Poland is different, completely different in the east. There are completely different situations in the country. In the areas where I'm from, it's just that more and more there are no successors on the farms. There are also situations, not uncommon, that people who have graduated from higher education, come from the city and buy farms that have no successors. What will this situation look like after the entry into force of this law? Well, if the neighbors aren't interested, or they're already going to have these 300 hectares... if they have these 300 hectares, they won't be able to purchase this farm without a successor. And will it be possible for this man from the city who wants to do business? I'm referring here to what Senator Staron said. Is he gonna give the agency a chance to run the farm properly if he's just gonna take off, move on? That's the first question. Two. I'll keep digging, continue with what Senator Staron said. The Legislative Office on this issue, which was discussed, proposed some detail. Did you vote on this? What was the position of the Ministry in relation to the amendment proposed in the Act in order to clarify the requirement for the proper running of the holding? And the third question that concerns, I would say, big farmers. Well, their farms. That's what happens in our regions. It consists mostly of two parts: the acquired part and the leased part of the Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury. After the entry into force of this law, if any of the farmers turn to the agency and express their willingness to purchase land leased by these great owners now, they will have to sell it because their property exceeds significantly these 300 ha or not? Is it gonna be like this now that somebody's got... I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I'm just gonna give you an example. If anybody has 1 thousand 500 ha, of which 700 ha leased, will those 700 ha of neighbouring farmers be able to purchase from the agency and these leases will not be able to continue?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u106	Mr. Senator, I've told you many times... We're going back to the same questions around here, and we're repeating ourselves. We were talking about these variations, about how you can't... The government's approach is like that right now. Since we've established that we're a homogeneous country, that is, we don't create zones like this or any other country, then we keep this version that is. We don't share... There's no such variation. As far as the warranty is concerned, I've already spoken to the senator. Let's ask some specific questions to the Minister... [[Mr. Chairman, I asked about the committee's deliberations.]] That wasn't the topic at the committee meeting. That's not exactly how it was... I can't keep saying... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but even in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau we have, this amendment is proposed. I can't believe you didn't talk to her at the committee meeting.]] Will the senator let me finish my speech? I am saying that the subject of the committee meeting was not as detailed as your questions. The vote at the committee meeting was so... That's the government's position. That's when he presented it. Maybe today we'll hear a new government position and find out... Ask the Minister questions and give him a chance to answer these questions. After our sittings, after this few days' break, We didn't do it at a fast pace, we just gave each other time. After analysis... Today you may hear from the Minister whether these amendments that are tabled will remain or will be different. I'm gonna report one amendment tonight, which is gonna be... I was talking at the outset about the fact that at least these 30-inch plots were included in the possibility of disabling the neighborhood market, and I'm about to report an amendment. You can also report many solutions. But don't want all that information from me that wasn't given at the committee meeting. After all, the Minister is here to answer you, and to talk here about whether someone will have to sell, when he has 1 000 500... After all, it has been said many times: we are not making the present situation worse. There's legal status, the one that is, stays. We're talking about what's going to happen. So we can't... Just as it is said of inheritance: if anyone has a thousand ha, he will give in inheritance a thousand ha, because he has a state found. Therefore, we are not making the situation worse, we are just talking about the new solutions contained in this law. That's all I have to say. I don't think such specific questions were raised at the committee meeting. And I'm not going to mention them here, because I'm starting to speak from myself, to give information from myself, not to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u107	Senator Grodzki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a strict question about the proceedings of the committee; this question is also for Senator Cichoń. But I don't see him in the O.R. That is to say, to the proceedings of the two committees. The development of Małgorzata Korzycka from the Department of Agricultural Law and Food Safety at the University of Warsaw and the opinions of legislators were serious analyses of the bill. And you, in general... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't tell me... I'm sorry. Senator, in general the opinion of Professor Kozycka is positive, but there are some very important topics raised in it, among others. The issue of religious relationships, based on history. Because as it used to be possible to import used cars through religious compounds that formed like mushrooms after rain, so here, theoretically, we can also establish the Church of the Holy Senator. There are 100 of us, so we can start a religious union. And buy land. Professor Kozycka proposes three solutions. Two less radical, changing the record, and the third radical: the deletion of this record reported by Mr Ardanowski. This is an important topic. Because that's the opening of the speculation gate. Was this the subject of the committee's deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u109	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u110	Senator, I have said this before, so let me just repeat, because the questions already overlap: we were not familiar with the opinion of Professor Kozycka, we did not have this opinion at the committee meeting. This was therefore not the subject of discussion at the committee meeting. As far as the Legislative Office is concerned, all these things have been discussed, the government's position has been expressed. I don't know what the government's position will be today; ask the government what the position is today after a week's review, you can say all this, and then we'll know. I repeat: there was no discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u112	Excuse me, Professor Kozycka's paper was dated April 6th.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u113	It wasn't in... We didn't have access to that opinion at the committee meeting, so... If I had that opinion, if it were presented, it would probably be a discussion. No one to the committee at the time has delivered... The only document that was, so to speak, very widely transmitted was the document of the Helsinki Foundation, which submitted 21 pages of comments. They're here in writing. There was a discussion on this at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and this was also mentioned at the meeting of our committee. There was an opportunity to speak, they spoke... And the professor's materials weren't delivered to us, we had no knowledge of that. I know now that there's this material, I have it now, but now I'm not supposed to talk about the opinion, but I'm supposed to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u115	Senator, in relation to what Senator Augustine said, namely in relation to the circumstances of restricting the purchase of land, that land can only be bought by an individual farmer, that he must live 5 years in the commune, which of course will significantly reduce the marketing of real estate, my question is: why only an individual farmer can be the buyer of agricultural property, of course, except for the four exceptions we have mentioned, such an exception is, among others. The church, and can't it be the buyer of the farmers' cooperative? Was this subject discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u117	Mr. Senator, if I may... We've been over this, there's been a lot of questions, and we're saying the same thing. Let me repeat one more thing that was said at the committee meeting. We were talking about cooperatives. The government declared that it would take care of cooperative law, that it would prepare some changes to the cooperative law and that if it came out of this... that we would adapt it to the law that is. That's what I said. And there was a discussion at the committee meeting, and I think it's enough at this stage. For us, I mean. For the committee, there was just so much to say. And that's what I'm handing over to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u118	Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u119	Dear Senator, I, according to your suggestion, was no longer to bother you, but I must refer to my earlier question and your subsequent answers. I can't agree with the senator when the senator says we shouldn't say it's a law blocking foreigners. 'Cause after the rush, after the deadline of April 30th... Well, we all know what's going on. In my opinion, the problem is that, by the way, we are moving, as I said before, to a worse group of Poles of 35 million citizens, who will suddenly, day by day, not be able to gain access to the land mentioned here in any way. However, I would like to return to my question as to whether you are not afraid of lowering the value of the earth. The senator replied that there are very different valuations here and that I don't think so. And just after I was asked a question by Senator Pup, who in turn presented the same issue on the other hand and asked if it was not worth it in itself that farmers would be able to buy land much cheaper and that in the economic account it would be much better. And to that question, the senator has already answered with approval that it may actually be some profit and some value in itself, that this economic account resulting also from the decline in the price of the land... that it is something positive. And then I'm going back to my question, after this sequence of questions and answers. Because there are farmers who are in debt today, hypnotized. And as far as the point is concerned, the stick may have two ends. Wasn't it noticed at the committee meeting that for such farmers... And many farmers have their own land, because it is an economic requirement. And the records are that at a time when its value falls dramatically, banks may apply for additional collateral. And my question is, at the committee meeting... Because here in the legislative committee, this issue was raised. Did you talk about this matter at the committee meeting and consider it? Especially, Mr. Senator, that I want to tell you that there is an art in this bill. 68, relating to the mortgage, and there is such provision that the mortgage may not exceed the market value of the property fixed at the date on which the mortgage was established. So we're gonna need an extra surgery. In my opinion, this provision is clearly a provision that predicts that the value of land will be reduced and that, therefore, there may be problems with the mortgage. And I'll also ask if there was any discussion about the mortgage. Because I'd like to know if you were wondering how it's gonna be with the banks that are going to give loans to the mortgage, and what happens if the farmer goes bankrupt. Can the bank take over such a mortgage? Isn't that going to be a contradiction... [[With the bill.]] ...with the bill? And isn't that gonna... [[He's not an agricultural subject.]] ...blocking, day by day, loans for agriculture? Was there a conversation about that? And isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, surely the first problem of farmers today is a lack of profitability. There's a problem with milk, pork, grain, fruit. These are the problems that must be solved so that farmers have income. If they have income, stability of investment, there will be no problems with banks. This is a fundamental problem for securing the functioning of Polish agriculture in the European Union and even in the world. The second problem is whether the banks secured three-, even four times the mortgage value, than the loan actually made. You know, I know what it looks like. Banks secured at least three times the value of the land. Here's another thing. You were talking about surgery. I know a little about surgery, too, 'cause I used to deal with it. After all, the operation is being prepared on the basis of what? What's the turnover in a given area, right? It says that the notarial acts contained in this and in the latter period are average value, and that the price that is in force today in the calculation, which means that it is 80,000 per hectare and you, in preparation for the operation, will show that this value of land will continue to apply 80 thousand. So basically, there's this price that is, so there's no such thing as... [[Then why the record, Mr. Senator? What's the record for?]] ...the danger that the preparation of the operation will, for example, lower the value of the earth, because you will prepare for the agency an operation that will result from the current price of the earth in circulation... and therefore I am not afraid... This is a price stabilization for me, not a sharp rise and decline. I was basing my opinion on this, and that is why I said that for farmers it would stabilise the price more than in speculative trading. That was my opinion, and that's what I'm going back to.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u122	Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator Pociej has started the mortgage and I would like to pull this thread. At the moment, the situation is that very often a farmer owns a lot of land and when he borrows a loan, this credit itself is not strictly allocated to the land, but mortgages and yes. The mortgage under the same loan can be entered, say, into 5 parcels. The fact that the bill will cause a drastic fall in prices, I think we all know. In this group we can tell stories about stability, but we know that this will result in a fall in agricultural land prices, as opposed to construction land, whose prices will go the other way drastically. And my question is this: what happens to this part of the unpaid mortgage due to the wording of the article. The 68 you mentioned to Senator Pociej? So here's the situation: there was a mortgage today... I'm not talking about the new ones where these valuations are actually based on the valuation of the agency, which will be the only possible buyer or potential buyer. What's gonna happen to that mortgage? There's a bank coming in and there's a need to pay off the mortgage. The agency has the right to pre-empt, the agency makes the valuation, I shoot, 20,000 versus 80,000, for which the mortgage was fixed... He buys $20,000 because he has a right. What happens to the remaining amount in relation to the bank? Is the farmer in debt spiraling at this point, and he's already in debt to death? Him, his children, his grandchildren, forever? That's the first question about these mortgages. My second question already concerns the right of farmers to acquire land, actually by natural persons. You mentioned in one of the previous answers to the questions that there would be no administrative decision in this case. And in the bill it stands like an ox that it will issue an administrative decision, the president of the agency, and the appeal institution is to be the minister. But my question is different. There is much written in the Act about the right of priority, and little about the dates in which this right of priority can be exercised. Not much is written about the dates on which any money will be paid for the exercise of the right of priority. And my concern is this: understanding the budgetary difficulties we know about... Well, the agency doesn't have any cash of its own to carry out the purpose of this bill. Is it not paradoxical that we will have the right of priority realized, but we will wait for the money to be holy never, just as many social groups in Poland are already waiting, just like the repatriates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u123	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u124	Mr. Senator, I've said this so many times, I won't go back to the subject again... I have told Senator Pociej, I have also told you that this was not the subject of the committee's work, and I am the committee's rapporteur and I am to speak about what has been discussed in the committee. I propose that you address all these matters to the Minister, because he is the addressee and he is the representative of the government who is presenting this bill. In the committee we didn't discuss all these things, it's hard for me to make my own argument here today, to make my own point. Therefore, in representing the committee, I will avoid such specific answers because I would exceed the level of representation of the committee's position. [[I see. I'm gonna put a question to the Minister. Thank you.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u125	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u126	I'd like to ask Senator Cichoni of the Legislative Commission a question, but... [[You're not here...]] ...because he's gone, unfortunately, Mr. Senator, I'll be asking you questions, but a little bit different. Mr. Senator, how many people in Poland can there be in total who will operate under this law? I mean, how many farmers and possibly family members are in Poland? Because they will also function within the framework of... I mean, they will be the beneficiaries of this bill. Are there 6 million or more or less? That's the first question. The second question concerns the reason why this law exists, namely the purchase of land by foreign citizens. How many of these were found? Because that's the basis of this bill. How much recently, let's assume, in a few years, three or five years, the services, the police or the prosecutors' authorities 'Cause of course it's a crime. Did they say that? If you answer that it was mostly purchased by companies... But this law does not only apply to companies, it concerns individuals. Therefore, I have this question: how many foreign citizens does the farm run in Poland? I remember there were 800 Dutch a few years ago, and it was the biggest group. Has anything changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u127	Thank you very much. I remind you senators that you are currently asking no more than one minute of questions to the rapporteurs. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u128	Mr. Marshal, as far as the question is concerned, how many people will be involved, we can actually calculate. In Poland we have 38 million citizens. Potentially in the village lives about 40% The inhabitants of the village are said to be, in fact we have farmers today, as some say, about 20% who are engaged in... As far as direct payments in agriculture are concerned, there are about 1.5 million of them, so we can calculate that we have about 1.5 million of farms. So you can compare different data and relationships here. But will everyone be participative... Well, not everyone's gonna be that spin... It may be small, but it may also be a large percentage, in terms of changes in land circulation, all depends on the income in agriculture, whether farmers want to host, whether they go away from farming, they will pass on to larger farms for economic or other reasons. I don't want to use information here because we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting, but I can give you one example. If I talk about one example in West Pomerania, because it is difficult to talk about many, there would be no time. There is a natural person who had the right to acquire land because she was a farmer and bought, transferred property to a company, came back and acquired again, moved back to the company and again acquired, and always had less than 300 hectares... This entry is introduced here so that people who repeatedly bought and sold could no longer acquire more than 300 hectares. This is one of the precedents that was caught in West Pomeranian and showed that legislation had to be introduced so that it would not be so that it would rotate and continually introduce companies. Now the question is, why should these companies be controlled? Because if she was bringing companies, the question is who owns these companies now. There's control of that, too. I stress once again: we do not introduce a new law in such a way... The name is new: the ban on sales. But these two laws on real estate management and the agricultural system are in force. We're just changing the clarification in these laws. These laws entered into force before we entered the European Union. These are ours to say, the most important documents that limit the rotation of the earth. This is our status quo, which we obtained before we entered the European Union. And let's stick to that. Now these tightenings are more precise, the rules are more tighter. I'd stick to it. And what my friend said... It's okay. Let's make it restrictive today. After a few months, we'll see where everything is, and then we'll change. But let's not go back after May 1st... Or vice versa: let's not sharpen it after May 1.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u129	I thank the rapporteur very much. Please, the question is asked by Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[But I have a question for the Minister. I'm sorry, sir. I don't want to bother you anymore.]] Good. I ask Senator Piotr Flork to ask the senator the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u130	Mr. Senator, the landlord can only be a farmer. And we have four exceptions. There's a person close. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? I'm talking about defining a person close to a realtor. Because there was a wide discussion here and in the media, who's close to the person who can acquire the property. Do we know exactly who we're talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u131	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u132	Mr. Senator, we haven't discussed this in detail. This is defined, directly written in the act. We've accepted that there's a record of what's in the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u133	Thank you. And you ask Senator Marek Borowski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u134	I must say, Mr. Senator, this is not only an interesting bill, but also an extremely deep one. Deep because when you start digging in it, you discover new decks unknown, I would say, and provocative to questions. I read it gradually, and when I confront your explanations, I learn things. But maybe I didn't read something. Did I understand correctly that agricultural cooperatives will not be able to acquire land? That's it. That's the end of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u135	Thank you. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u136	I've already mentioned the discussion... I said the Minister will take care of cooperative law... [[No, no, Mr. Senator...]] Right now, we're gonna lead... [[I do. I didn't ask if the Minister...]] It says: individual farmer. An individual farmer. [[No, I'm asking... answer yes or no. Because that question is suitable for such an answer.]] Oh, no, I told you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u137	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the senator of the rapporteur another question? Nobody. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to represent the government's position during parliamentary work. Mr Krzysztof Jurgel is with us today. Minister, do you wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say a few words before the questions that will probably be asked. I would like to address the more important issues that have been raised and which need to be discussed further. Firstly, it must be noted that this law is one of the elements of our agricultural programme, which we want to implement in Poland. And one of the priorities, or one of the issues that required regulation, is the matter of shaping the agricultural system. And this is not a target law, because Poland, as one of the few countries, does not have one proper law on shaping the agricultural system which sets out the rules for drawing up structural plans. The entire earth economy in the European Union, land management is covered by spatial planning. Spatial planning determines the functions and destinations of the sites. And that's why these little exceptions, combinations, when it comes to sales and purchases that some senators have spoken about, well, they shouldn't have happened at all, ladies and gentlemen. The structural plan, the spatial planning plan determines the use of land and gives rights under the relevant laws. And within two years, such a law will be drawn up, and it will determine how a municipal development plan should be drawn up, how to finance, what capital is to be invested, as regards the long-term financing law modelled on the American model. And the bill we are talking about today is really necessary, because it follows that on May 1 will be released the rotation of the land in Poland. We have proposed a preamble, in which the aim is given, as if the main message of this law. I will quote this preamble: "In order to strengthen the protection and development of family farms, we stress this. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which form the basis of the agricultural system of the Republic of Poland, in order to ensure the proper management of agricultural land in the Republic of Poland, in order to ensure the food security of citizens and to promote sustainable agriculture conducted in accordance with environmental requirements and conducive to the development of rural areas, this Act is adopted. And art is important. 1 which is not amended and which was adopted in 2003: And I'm asking you to pay particular attention here. The first step is to improve the area structure of agricultural holdings. In Poland this problem is not solved, the previous government has not included issues related to improving the area structure in rural development programmes. Second: to counter the excessive concentration of agricultural real estate. And thirdly, It is also very important to ensure that agricultural activities are carried out on agricultural holdings by persons with appropriate qualifications. This is what we have set ourselves and, according to the government, this law pursues the objective of countering excessive concentration under Article. 23 of the Constitution, which provides that the agricultural system is based on a family farm. I'll quote here, 'cause Senator Chróścikowski didn't have this print on him, part of the 60-page justification of the bill. If you'd all been thoroughly acquainted with him, there'd probably be a lot of questions that wouldn't be asked here today. The question here is how it is regulated in other countries. I will quote a passage on how it is in France: The turnover of agricultural property in France is subject to administrative control. Decisions, so-called Authorisations allowing agricultural activities to be carried out on land to be purchased or leased shall be undertaken by the prefects of the departments taking into account the priorities indicated in the departmental structural plans. So, ladies and gentlemen, in France, the prefect is deciding whether or not someone can buy the land on the basis of a structural plan. The qualification shall be documented by a diploma or certificate equivalent to the completion of agricultural studies or of a secondary agricultural school. This is one example. I'm not going to discuss them all, of course. I'm going to discuss them all. The provisions on administrative control apply in Germany That is to say, a decision must be taken. On the marketing of agricultural and forestry land under the Law of 1961 on the marketing of land. Authorisations for the disposal of agricultural property shall be issued depending on the land by either the general administration or the district authority. The Act also applies to exchanges, donations, settlements and successions. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a decision-making process in Germany, and we have a notary to determine whether the statutory conditions are met. Another example, from Denmark. The buyer or spouse or children, at the time of acquisition in Denmark, are not owners, co-owners of agricultural property located abroad. So there's a condition that they can't own another property. And then: the buyer settled permanently in Denmark within 6 months of the acquisition of the real estate. In all countries, e.g. In France, it's profitable... Excuse me, in Spain holding a holding of at least 50% income should be earned from agricultural work. And that's why we were talking about the KRUS recipe. It wasn't about that. 'Cause there's been some misunderstanding here. That the current farmer who owns the land must be in KRUS. No, the point was that the buyer of real estate in Poland with more than 50 ha should be registered in KRUS. This was due to EU solutions, such as French ones, in which it was written that 50% He's in agriculture... I would add that in Hungary, natural persons, churches, financial institutions are eligible for land. So that, ladies and gentlemen, our limitations that we had to introduce do not really result from the fact that we so much want to hinder people from running farms. We do this so that, first of all, we adopt EU standards, and secondly, that the land in Poland is primarily cultivated and that it serves food production. These are the main things I wanted to raise. I think there will be questions, so that I am at your disposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will be the first to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, I will return to a case that has already been raised here, but I think the answers were not satisfactory for the people asking the questions. We are dealing with what is rare lately, with a government project, and as I understand it, this project has undergone all the intergovernmental consultations, which is what all the other ministers have said. I, frankly, am amazed that these opinions were positive and that this project was accepted. Yeah, but I'll get to the question. It concerns the functioning of this law in the context of the existence of historical buildings of palaces, gardens, etc. I asked your senator at the very beginning. The point is, it's in art. 1 and Article 1 2 there are various types of situations, and there are also exemptions up to 2 hectares. However, the Minister seems to be well aware of the fact that there are large areas in Poland where, for example, there are large areas. there are locks. These are large areas, above 2 hectares, often above 9 hectares and larger, so they are really large objects. We also have in Poland requiring special care and supervision of gardens, parks, etc. and castles and palaces lying in areas which could be classified as agricultural. It's very hard to sell. I'm sure you're aware that the Agricultural Property Agency is trying to sell, and it's not... It's hard to find a buyer for it, and it's harder to find the landlord to manage it. Tell me how it is that farmers or the country have the originals in this case. The fact that there's no free market here... And that sometimes helps, because sometimes there are people like that. foundations that are able to take care of such objects. And the second question about the development plans. We know well that in Poland it is up to 30%. I mean, Poland is covered with development plans in less than 30%. I don't know what it's like right now, but it's about 26%. or 28% so that most areas of Poland, agricultural areas, this does not apply. There are exemptions here; in Article. 2 cases where this is not the case have been reported. As I said, these are sports and recreation facilities, housing, etc. Tell me... education, culture and other important social goals... What's it gonna be like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u141	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u142	I'll get back to the first question. In Government Of course, according to the government's rules of action, there have been various discussions, but some officials have also realized that there has been a change in Poland and that the approach to ownership, to the protection of what is national, is often more important than repeated over the last few years such goals which have led to the fact that we do not have processing in Poland, that everything is abroad. Something needs to be protected in Poland, and above all it needs to protect the land in Poland. As far as sales exceptions are concerned within 5 years, they are mentioned. In a case which is not included here, the President of the Agency may give his consent and such consent, such a decision resulting from socio-economic reasons, for example, that there is a ruin which has not yet been developed for various reasons. It'll be possible. But it must be acknowledged that in Poland the basis of management must be a spatial planning and study plan. We're gonna do it. At least that is my position back to the planning that took place before 1994, where there was a general spatial planning plan, which was a local law, because the study of circumstances is not a local law... And there are specific local plans, which are drawn up for particular parts, for particular areas. Really believe me that the whole of Europe is based on the fact that all investments are arising and are being developed in accordance with local plans, also decisions on the transfer are being taken. We don't want to make a makeover, we want it to work as normal as in other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u143	I'm sorry, I just want to ad vocem... I don't know if the Minister is aware of how long it takes in Poland to make development plans... [[Senator, how much?]] Please? [[How long does it take?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet...]] [[A month to a few years...]] No, no. A month to a few... a month? I didn't hear... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u145	Senator, the time to make plans depends on the type of authority you choose. If there is a elected authority that takes care of citizens, then the plan can be drawn up up up to 7 months, if different, then sometimes it takes 3 years... [[No.]] So it depends on... [[Especially in big cities, where they are, etc...]] ...the applicant and the one who's doing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u146	Especially in big cities, please pay attention to this. Please pay attention. Also for how the development plans are consulted, and how this bill... In how short a time this bill is made, how little time we have, and how many mistakes we all have here and from the law, and from the left talk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u147	Senator, now is not the time for polemicism. [[I'm sorry.]] Now the senators are asking questions, and the Minister is answering them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u148	When it comes to big cities, it really is. I don't know if you have the opportunity to drive in many cities. There is no spatial order. It was led to the fact that, for example, there was an estate of single - family houses and suddenly two thirteen - story blocks were growing. Believe me, only local planning eliminate the discretion of the mayors and mayors, especially city presidents. It will make this spatial order at least partially repaired. [[But please pay attention to the level at which it is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you.]] Now you ask Senator Jan Dobrzyński a question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to thank you very much for this bill... for the law that is necessary. This bill... [[Voice from the room: The microphone is off.]] [[Turn on the microphone, Senator.]] [[The card...]] Can you hear me now, Marshal? [[I don't think so.]] [[The card...]] I would like to thank you very much, Minister, for this project... basically for this bill that was adopted by the Sejm. She is needed, she is necessary for normal functioning, so to speak, land when it comes to farmers. After all, there was a similar law before the war, and we have similar laws in the European Union - Germany, France. Because, of course, the earth is a good thing to take care of. According to these zoning plans... Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that the fact that there is no spatial planning in each municipality is in the interest of the voivodships, mayors and presidents. Well, if there's no plan, it's the free will of the officials. Minister, I, of course, support this law in its entirety, but I am only referring to young farmers, because here are certain conditions regarding the purchase of land or leases. I know the Ministry was working on this subject. What's it like right now? Will the young farmer be able to lease the land, and will he be able to buy it, possibly under what conditions? Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u151	Thank you. And you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u152	As far as leases are concerned, there are no restrictions in my view. The possibility for a young farmer to acquire land arises from Article. 2a. This article. 2 point 2 says: people who want to create a family farm... And this would be the amendment that was tabled, and it would also apply to young farmers who have committed themselves to acquiring the right to run a farm for a certain period of time or... So that there are no sharpenings or difficulties here. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u153	Thank you very much, Minister. And the question I'm asking is Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Let me give you an example: in order to achieve the goal of, for example, reducing the number of road fatalities, there could be a speed limit of 30 km/h anywhere on motorways. And then probably those accidents, the deaths would be a lot less. The state in this act goes even further, in my opinion, because you put almost a stop sign, and if not a stop sign, you limit the speed to 10 km/h. At the very beginning I would like to ask the Minister first of all about the scale. What is the scale of the purchase of land by foreigners? How much land does it look like we have? That's the question, Mr. Minister, to tell me how much agricultural land we have. in our country, in Poland, how many of these agricultural land is currently owned by the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury, i.e. in stock, and how much land was purchased by foreigners, how many hectares. Are those thousands or millions? So how much land did foreigners buy in Poland? And if you could give me what I asked the rapporteur, so what's the percentage, so no more... Are we talking 0.1% here? , or by 0,5% ? How much land did foreigners buy in Poland? That would be a scale, a point of reference for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u155	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u156	When it comes to the amount of land, it's about 1.5 million hectares of land. There are more farms, but about 1.5 million ha also apply for payments which are submitted by applicants. But I think there's about 1 million 800 grand in farms. This has decreased over the last ten years because 10 years ago, the farms were 2 million 200 thousand. And the agency has 1.5 million ha. I really appeal to you, the state chosen by the nation, not to use words that are not true. I have shown what restrictions are on the sale of agricultural property in other countries And here we have an expert opinion on this. And you can see that there is really a liberal law in this matter. So that saying it's wrong, you know, Mr. Senator... I don't think that's entirely true. [[And what percentage did the foreigners buy?]] [[Mr. Senator, we haven't heard...]] [[My question was what percentage of these agricultural land for today was bought by foreigners in Poland. Well, Mr. Minister...]] I mean that number. Because there were no restrictions that we have here. We don't know. But the European Commission's opinion, which presented the report last year, refers to 200 000 ha. The second report, which is held by the chairman of the European Parliament's agricultural committee, has not been submitted to the public. So once again: according to this opinion about 200,000 ha is in the hands of foreigners thanks to the so-called mediation. poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u157	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister! The existing law on the formation of the agricultural system defines the individual farmer as such: it is the natural person who personally runs the agricultural holding, works on that holding, takes all decisions, has agricultural qualifications, agricultural education. But it can also be a person who has no agricultural education but has a higher education. The law you are proposing now changes the definition of an individual farmer. In this respect, did those who had been successful farmers for many years have had higher education, but not agricultural training, who were geodesia engineers, surveyors, I do not know, have any higher education. And the farm that was exemplary loses all the power to acquire land? And didn't the person who fulfilled all these conditions ever acquire rights? What are you gonna do with people who just have those rights? And do you think that running a farm with good results, with good results, by a person with a higher education, is in any contradiction... Does such a holding have a worse status than that of an individual farmer who has acquired entitlement through correspondence courses? With all due respect, of course, to this man. Is the status of these people so diametrically different that in the light of the regulations you propose, one will be able to acquire the land and the other will not be able to? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u159	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u160	As far as qualifications are concerned, we're not changing anything. So that in the case of those who are individual farmers, there are no risks. This law does not make the situation worse. Take a look at the bill. As regards the preparation for the holding, the provisions are not amended.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u161	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u162	I'm the one who has to ask. Minister, a person who doesn't have an agricultural education and runs a farm will be able to acquire an agricultural property?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u163	Yes. [[Thank you.]] Because he's a farmer who runs a farm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u164	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Lydia Staron. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: You're asking a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister more or less what I asked earlier, but I would like a precise answer, Minister. First thing I'm really interested in. Like I said, I'm from Warmia and Mazury. There's a lot of farm land or palaces that are very devastated. Some are in private hands, not necessarily farmers. They are entered in the register of monuments; this is the most important. So it is known that then all conservation works will be subject to the supervision of the monument conservator. For us, probably for every Pole and for every citizen, these are certain gems, so it would be worth restoring their glory, restoring what they used to look like. In addition to these buildings there are very often parks or gardens or agricultural areas, which are also an inheritance and should be restored to greatness. My question is: can these objects be excluded from the provisions of this Act? Will that be possible? Because I'm sure you're aware that an individual farmer isn't necessarily interested. It's still localized in the acquisition of this kind of real estate and then investing... Because sometimes the effort to restore this property is actually pretty big. And others would be interested, of course, taking into account the need for conservation supervision, etc. Is that a possibility? I have prepared such an amendment, but I would like to know if it will be pointless, because it is all in your hands, or you will bend over this amendment in substance, and you will give these properties a chance to exist in this modified form. That's the first question. I'm gonna ask the other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u167	I would like us to take some time here, perhaps, to return to the development programme that you presented to Prime Minister Morawiecki for a moment. This development plan shows that in the fifth pillar we are talking about rural development, where a rural pact will be drawn up and action will be taken to level the standard of living in cities and rural areas. Now I'm going back to the principle of development programming, because I think there's been a little misunderstanding here. We must ensure that structural plans for the development of the village are drawn up within these five years. Mrs. Senator, perhaps those objects that are there will serve the local community. I understand you're willing to sell it to private owners for a penny. We don't want to run a policy to sell everything for a dollar, but if...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u168	Minister, I'm so sorry, I don't want to come into your word, but I didn't use those words, and that wasn't my intention. Please don't put something in my mouth that I haven't said or even thought about. No, Minister, I want people to have a chance to have a chance that these objects will still exist. After five years, they'll practically be gone. And if today it's in private hands, whether that person, the physical person will have the right to throw it away if he can't. And not for a penny, for normal money. I don't know why you think that in the back of your head, the idea that someone's trying to get away with it or get around it. I'm asking you about the matter of substance, what the associations asked me to do. The question is substantive: is there any chance that people, natural persons or agencies, might not necessarily be able to sell this to individual farmers who are not interested in it, but to those who will be interested in it, Polish entities, I stress, Polish?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u169	The chance is and this possibility exists in the current law. This is included in this article, where these exemptions are. The decision may be taken by the head of the Agricultural Property Agency. I didn't put anything in your mouth. I just want to make you and your political camp aware that rural areas are also Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u170	Minister, I'm so sorry, I don't have a political camp. I am the only independent senator in Poland. I started out of my own group. [[Not the only one.]] The only one who ran against every formation. I ran without any support from the election committee: Lydia Staroń Always on the side of people. So don't make it clear to me unless you're trying to make something clear to me on a case-by-case basis, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u171	Mrs. Senator... [[But...]] Senator, I understand, but please... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but it's a little...]] Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u172	I would like to say what is the idea of the law on shaping the system. We really need to prepare plans for the development of the village and identify areas that will fulfil certain functions. Within the scope of these functions, the land is disposed of. A decision concerning these manor houses... They should not be ruined after so many years of government, especially the last power. We offer sales opportunities, but we want this to be used as far as possible for local community purposes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u173	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u174	Excuse me, I'll ask you again. I mean, how is that to be used for local community purposes? I'm talking about the destructive manor houses that are in the hands of both the agency and the individuals. I'm just asking if there's a way to restore anything, and they're like. on the edge of some village, they're isolated.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u175	I'll give you an example. I'm not gonna call it "no advertising" lately. That one property that was to be sold for gold will be used for the rehabilitation centre of farmers. This is a public purpose. We need to do inventory. Perhaps one or the other property, palace manor houses will be useful for social purposes, for rural purposes, but this needs to be determined. And don't worry, really, because the possibility of selling in some cases is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal, I'm almost done. I'm worried because... The voters, the associations, asked me to do this. I understand, Minister, that... you're saying you're going to audit these properties. For the time being, there is no chance of this amendment as regards this exclusion and as regards individuals, they will not be able to sell to anyone else, possibly to an individual farmer. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u177	They'll be able to sell back, there's a procedure. [[There's no such procedure in the bill. I read it thoroughly.]] Unless the senator reads another bill... [[Minister...]] [[Senator, let us answer the Minister's question. Please, Minister.]] As I said, it is possible to transfer property with the permission of the president of the agency. [[They don't read exactly, and then...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u178	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Marek Borowski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u179	Minister, I will repeat the question I asked you earlier to Senator Chróścikowski because he sent me back to the Minister. I'm talking about the situation of a local who decides to tie his life to agriculture and wants to move to the country. The question is, will he be able to do it and under what conditions? I studied the bill and found the following conditions. If I mess things up, the Minister will correct me. Firstly, such a citizen must have the approval of the President of the Agency. Right? Further: it must have agricultural qualifications; it must give the guarantee proper conduct of agricultural activities; it must undertake to reside within 5 years from the date of acquisition of the property in the municipality where the property is located. The following provision shows that, regardless of his five - year - old residence for 10 years, he must cultivate the land himself. As far as the rules on agricultural qualifications are concerned, these qualifications are defined elsewhere; I will not quote them all here. It follows from them that if this person does not have an agricultural education, he must acquire certain titles, but also have an internship in agriculture of at least three years or five years, depending on his education. As a result, it is actually impossible to move, buy land, and change life - style.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u180	In the opinion of the government, it is possible. [[Uh-huh. Unless you do.]] I will refer to the point that the purchaser gives the guarantee of proper farming. Mr. Senator, take the law on legal counsel. It states that the legal counsel may be one who guarantees the proper conduct of legal activities. If that is the decision, then the interest of the party, that is, the applicant, is to present documents which certify the fulfilment of the requirements referred to here. He can get a certificate from the farmhouse and he can show that he's been involved so far. These are the conditions which in Polish law exist. It's not our idea, it's a lot of laws that give rise to such statements. The authority carrying out this assessment may be the Chief of Staff, the Agricultural Chamber. We want that to happen in Poland. [[I'll ask if you don't mind. Okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u181	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u182	Agricultural qualifications. I'm saying two things here. The Minister referred, for example, to a legal adviser who must have appropriate papers. Well, yes, only that a legal counsel is a person of public trust and his activities, if he does not have these qualifications, can be harmful to many other people. The farmer, on the other hand, works on his own account, and at the very least, he's hurting himself. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Or it will harm the one who buys food.]] No, no... Excuse me, but the food is under control. This is completely different. If he's gonna produce food that's not fit to eat, but he's gonna want to sell it, she's just not gonna be bought, that's all. It is simply the introduction of agricultural qualifications here and comparing it with a legal adviser and other regulated professions that I consider to be a serious exaggeration. That's the first thing. But well, let's assume that agricultural qualifications must be. I am the only minister who has shown the rules on the definition of agricultural qualifications, and it follows from them that if you do not have agricultural education and I assume that the citizen of the city does not have agricultural education, you must have an internship in agriculture. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Well, that's not a problem...]] What do you mean, it's not a problem? [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel:...work 3 years with someone and...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the room: No!]] Oh, no. To get... [[Minister, just a moment, please.]] Okay, well, then... [[Mr. Senator, please specify the question...]] But... [[...so the Minister can answer them. You're welcome.]] But, Mrs. Marshal, that question is too precise. I'm asking you how someone who didn't have an internship in agriculture and wants to move to the country, and wants to work there, fell in love with the ground. Yes, and there are a lot of people like that and there may be even more, because living in cities is quite cumbersome, if it is a condition for him to have an internship in agriculture. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: It is not so...]] There it is, at every point. At every point, except for the fact that he has an agricultural education... [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: I would just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u183	Okay, thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u184	Mr. Senator, I'm just gonna stress that in this law, as far as agricultural qualifications are concerned, we're not changing anything. This law was passed in 2003 also by you, and then you did not object. [[But there was no obligation to have agricultural qualifications to buy land, and now there is. And that's the difference.]] It really is all described, explained, and for the person who really wants to meet these conditions there is no problem. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u185	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. You can... [[Voice from the room: Family...]] [[What kind am I talking about? Family.]] You're welcome, gentlemen... [[But still, Miss...]] Mr. Senator... [[That's the end of it, 'cause I've been digging up one thing all the time...]] Mr. Senator, you're gonna have a chance to ask in the next round, okay? [[I'll ask you one more question, okay?]] Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u186	Minister, I will return to the matter of amendment in the Sejm. I have a question: will 100 people who are going to start a religious union start a church? I'd call it, for example. The Church of Good Hope or the Church of Good Change, so that it sounds nice Will it be able to buy agricultural land without any restrictions? I repeat: without any restrictions, if they set up a church? And can the founders of a religious union be foreigners? And the question I have already asked the rapporteur here: will the Evangelical Lutheran Church based in Munich, which has 10.5 million faithful, be able to buy agricultural land in Poland in the light of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u187	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u188	First of all, it must be either a church from the Church Act, and there are 17 of them, or it must be a church registered in the Polish register in the Ministry of Interior and Administration. If he's registered, he'll have the opportunity. He just needs to get that license plate first. And if he's registered in Munich, as you say, then I don't think the minister will register the same relationship in Poland. He can buy... the Sejm has accepted this solution, the government has agreed to this solution and we support it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u189	Thank you very much. And the question is again asked by Senator Lydia Staron. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Now I'd like to ask you another question. I've got a lot. I would like to stress: very much For various reasons, intervention in the field of debt farmers. They very often fall into debt spirals, very often borrow various kinds of loans and, depending on the situation, financial condition, they are unable to repay them. These really aren't incidents. Besides, I'm sure you're aware of that, because you work in this area. And this bill doesn't allow... Or is there an exemption here so that it does not apply in enforcement proceedings. At a time when this is the case, at a time when such a farmer... When the execution takes place, the real estate execution ends in bidding. What's the bidding like? It always starts... there are three stages and it always starts with an operatium, which means there's a description and an estimate. And there's a sale of the property. Very often these are parcels, agricultural land with different areas. And in a situation where there is no possibility that all of this will take place as part of a normal bidding process, that is, the limitation that an individual farmer, from a given municipality... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry... [[Gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Senator, Minister, please be quiet.]] So there is, Minister, a very closed catalogue. Doesn't it work against both the debtor and the creditor? Sometimes it's an institution, sometimes it's a natural person. And what is wrong, injustice, or inequality in such a situation? If the auction is closed, that is, the directory is closed... You're gonna answer me right now, but you can buy an agency. However, it must be taken into account that here... This is also very precisely written in the bill discussed here. I'm not saying she's not needed. She's needed. It's just that we need to clarify some areas and give people a chance to... areas where there are currently gaps. We still have a moment to do this today. In the situation in question, the creditor will not obtain the amount of the undertaking he would have received but the debtor will continue to be a debtor. And I'm not talking about the fact that in many cases, he's gonna lose his property. In the event that there is no access to the bidding, it is known that the property will be sold below the price... [[It's always more expensive.]] That's not true. [[It's always more expensive.]] Mr. Senator, really... [[Ladies and gentlemen, Senator, now is not the time for polemics, now the senator is asking a question. And go right to the end, Senator.]] So I ask, Minister, is there any way that you can lean on such an amendment? [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: I will be right back.]] An exemption for only pending enforcement proceedings, when the bailiff comes in, when there is a commitment and the real estate enforcement procedure begins... Then maybe it's in this mode... I mean, people like that get as much money back from their property as possible and the legislator doesn't hurt them any more.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u191	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u192	Maybe I can convince you of this bill, after all these words... Right here on request... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, I am so sorry. Minister, Senator, please...]] ...at the club's request... I can't remember which one of the clubs in the Seym. It was that club where Mr Morawiecki is. [[Kukiz.]] At the request of the Kukiz club, two points were deleted, including... I argued that the restriction during the bidding only to farmers would lower the value of the property. But it was the Sejm who took it. The Senate is also... the Sejm just crossed two points in the mouth. 3 concerning, among others, auction. [[Minister, but, as I understand it, we still have an open road, we can at second reading...]] The Senate is sovereign. [[So we're going to make these amendments. Just know, we're...]] Just once again, I would like to stress that what we are talking about was a request from a minority of the Kukiz movement. And that it was supported in the Seym. [[Maybe it was a misunderstanding or... but, I understand, the road is open. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u193	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. Now you're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u194	Minister, two life situations taken. The first is: last year, February 2015, there is a protest in Opolszczyzna, in the district of Nysa, in the communes of Kamiennik and Otmuchów. Individual farmers are protesting against selling 140 ha of good land to one of the companies in a non-trade-free manner. She allegedly had the right to do so because she had previously resigned from a third of the area that she had leased from the Agricultural Property Agency. And the farmers wanted this land for themselves. After this protest, the Agricultural Property Agency, under the previous governments, withdrew. Tell me... And, interestingly enough, the land was sold to the company that was created by the German owner. That is, the owner of this company was Germany, which had already owned a company which in turn owned more than 300 ha of.500 ha, I do not know how. Here's the question. The owner has no physical land in Poland. One of his companies owns the land, owns the land. The question is whether, on the basis of this law, it is possible to block such Is this the situation that this owner will acquire land through a parallel company? I don't know if I'm making myself clear. That's the case. Having land in one company, the owner who is not formally the owner of the land will purchase land through a parallel company. Not dominant, not inferior, but parallel to the one that already owns the land. And the second question, also about the actual situation. Well, one of the cooperatives... [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Why don't I answer the first question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u195	Mr. Senator, I propose because the question is expanded so that the Minister can answer it now. [[Good. To be continued.]] And you're gonna get the other one in the next round. Okay? I'll write you down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u196	It must be made clear here that all organisations, including agricultural chambers and solidarity, supported these solutions, which we present, because they resulted, among others. from the strikes, protests in Pomerania, as well as the over-the-winter protest organized by the Solidarity movement in Warsaw, and all these unions supported these solutions. About the other thing... Until now, there has been no such provision in the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system in order to limit trading opportunities under the Civil Code, and in a few cases we have noted that the transfer of ownership under the Civil Code must be applied with the observance of that law. What you're saying is not possible in my opinion, because property can be sold to an individual farmer. Even if the company loses it, then it's either the right to acquire it or the right to buy it first. It's secure. [[Through the agency.]] Through the agency, yes. So it seems that the road to such combinations has been closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Przemysław's question, please. Terminian. And please, Mr and Mrs Senators, ask your questions in accordance with the rules of procedure, that is to say, that this speech does not last more than 1 minute. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u198	Minister, I would like to return to the questions I have asked the rapporteur and have not been answered. Two topics: mortgages and deadlines. Question one: what happens to the part of the mortgage that will not be repaid as a result of the purchase of the plot, the acquisition of real estate by the Agricultural Property Agency of the Treasury, according to the regulation that the mortgage cannot exceed the value of the property? Well, today we have these situations, it's not unusual. In addition, if the entry into force of the Act will result in a fall in land prices, then the safeguards will be scattered as if with mortgage obligations. That's the first question. Now for the second question, about deadlines. The Act says, of course, that there is priority on the part of the Agricultural Property Agency, but does not specify precisely within what time limit this priority will be executed, nor shall it be determined within what time the money will enter the seller's account. It's a bill that skips. There's only a record that within a month of the transaction, the seller is required to report to the Agricultural Property Agency to report... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u200	As far as the mortgage is concerned, it is her job to secure first those creditors who are included there. As for these specific cases, I can't... You'd have to write it down... We will reply in writing because there may be different options for getting out of this situation. I wouldn't want to talk so much about it. And that's why... [[Excuse me, Minister, maybe I can clarify the question. May I clarify the question, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u201	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u202	Minister, I'm seeing this as if... I even have a case from a few days ago when a farmer came to me who has six different parcels. Since he has taken credit for his agricultural holding, for the development of the agricultural holding, all these parcels have a mortgage in their possession. In a situation where the right of first purchase will be exercised in relation to one, the other, the third plot... This mortgage covers all of these plots together. And my question is this: how does the Agricultural Property Agency enforce the right of the original purchase and buy the plot? Okay, I'm gonna shoot. For 20 thousand zlotys in debt to 80 thousand zlotys, converted to a hectare, what will happen to the remaining 60 thousand zlotys? Well, because this farmer has no more land to cover, only a house and three cows left, and he has nothing left, and the debt is still there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u203	In my opinion, the agency... [[Is the senator expecting an answer now, or... is the minister willing to answer in writing or now?]] We will respond in writing in detail. [[Good.]] And now I can tell you that the agency doesn't have to exercise the right of first-buy if it thinks it's going to be a bad transaction for her. [[But for the agency, this is a very beneficial transaction! She's bad for creditors, and she's very good for the agency.]] Well, we need to find a legal solution. I can't answer such a specific question right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u204	Thank you very much. I understand that the Minister will answer that question... [[Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: In writing.]] ...in writing. Okay, thank you very much. Are you Senator Marek Borowski... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, but there was a question about deadlines...]] [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Please repeat...]] Say that question again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u205	The legislator shall provide for a time limit for reporting to the Agency in order to obtain acceptance for the conclusion of the transaction. However, the legislator does not provide for the date by which the agency is to exercise the right of first purchase, nor does it provide for the date by which the right of first purchase is to be settled with the seller. And that's the law that can be suspended, even for years. Well, that violates the rules of business.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u206	These matters are governed by the provisions of the Civil Code and others, but above all by the provisions of the Civil Code. There are also more detailed pre-emptive cases, certain rules for the transfer of rights and contracts, and here are only detailed rules for the transfer of agricultural property rights, while the general rules are in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u207	Thank you very much. Does Senator Marek Borowski maintain his desire to ask a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u208	It's moderate. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I'm gonna ask that question. Namely, I stand by this question about the townhouse all the time. We had a discussion here with the Deputy Minister and with the lawyers, but, as I said, this bill is so deep that every time there are new questions. In that article, which states that if the buyer is not an individual farmer, only someone else, the President of the Agency must give his consent and give his consent to the application, i.e. there must be an application. And we have two points, one salesman, or farmer, who owns land and wants to sell... [[Not necessarily, Senator.]] No? [[Not necessarily. He doesn't have to be a farmer.]] What do you mean, a salesman might not be a farmer? [[He doesn't have to be a farmer.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Legal person...]] [[Gentlemen, please, Senator Borowski is asking a question and after that the Minister will answer him.]] They're already very complicated circles. The landlord is not a farmer... [[Well, it could be a church...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Legal person.]] [[Voice from the hall: A priest.]] [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Mr Senator, as you now have 100 ha in Wrocław, you are not a farmer, you may not grow this land and you may dispose of it.]] Okay, but I assume it's a farmer. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Good.]] I assume this is a farmer, because the one in town doesn't want to buy 100 ha or 200 ha, just for example. 10 ha. Probably buying this land from a farmer, the seller is a farmer, so the administrative decision is made at the request of the seller, that's once, and the natural person is two. And I ask: when does a natural person formulate such a conclusion? [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: How he is a farmer.]] What do you mean, it's not? [[Mrs. Marshal, it's not a substantive question, it doesn't refer to the bill, you might as well ask about the island and the alien. Mrs. Marshal, I'd like you to control the questions.]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet. I'm sure the Minister himself would like to tell you if he's referring or not.]] I am deeply grateful to Senator Dobrzyński and as soon as... [[Nice to meet you.]] ...will be the Minister of Agriculture... [[Mr. Senator, the question is...]] ...I'll listen to him, and for the time being, I'd ask your marshal to draw your attention to the senator because I'm not asking him anything. [[Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.]] Minister, I'm going back to the question. 'Cause I'm sticking to the bill all the time. When a natural person lodges an application. It's not a salesman. It's a natural person. When?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u209	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u210	I think it's written in detail, Mr. Marshal. I think it's understandable to me, the procedure is described, and you're inventing some confabations. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] The Legislative Board approved it, passed through lawyers, and this... [[But, Minister, the questions and answers are that whoever's asking doesn't know, and whoever's answering is supposed to know. So don't blame me for not knowing.]] I don't blame you. [[I don't know, and that's why I'm asking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u211	As I understand it, the Minister is directing you to the bill. Yes? [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Yes.]] [[The Minister knows.]] Thank you very much. Minister, do you have another word on this or not? [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: No, thank you very much.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[No? That's the answer. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. I'd like to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal conclusion: maybe the Minister and Senator Dobrzanski would switch because he... [[Dobrzyński, Mr. Senator.]] Dobrzyński, I'm sorry. But it's in the momentum. I wanted to assign you good intentions... [[Ask me a question.]] Let's get to the questions. Minister, you first said a few words about the laws that apply in other countries of the European Union. Of course. And you're right. You didn't introduce them all. I would like to ask you what I asked the rapporteur. In your opinion, is the draft of our bill, which is currently being examined in the Senate, more restrictive than the law, I do not know, in France, Germany and Hungary? Is it identical? And if it's the same... Excuse me, but if it's different, what difference does the Minister see? That's the first question. Second question. Assigning a large number of new tasks to the agency in my opinion, as well as in the assessment of the various people who comment on this bill... They're talking about an increase in agency employment. Have these calculations been made and are you expecting an increase in employment at the agency? And if not, please answer in writing. If I could ask the Minister how many people were employed at the agency as at 31 December 2015. And the third question. The Senator rapporteur said that the Minister at the Parliament meetings said that during the procedure for the transfer of land to religious unions or to the church, the agency would ensure that the church would not speculate on this land. I am quite precisely quoting what the Senator rapporteur said. So I understand that you're predicting that the church could speculate on this land, and that's why the agency is gonna keep the church from speculating on it. So that's the third question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u213	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u214	As far as restrictions are concerned, I've already talked about it. With us under the law, the notary evaluates the legality of the transfer of real estate. In France, authorisation decisions authorising agricultural activities on land to be purchased or leased shall be taken by the prefects of the departments and shall take into account the priorities indicated in the departmental structural plans. Over there, sir, if the terrain function is based on the plan, then it is in the authorization decision to determine whether a person can acquire this property or whether he will properly cultivate it. This is one case. The qualification shall be documented by a certificate of completion of agricultural studies or a secondary agricultural school. We're here. See, if you have a basic education, you can get one too, and you don't have any problems. So that's the restriction. In Germany, there is administrative control over the marketing of agricultural land. Authorisations for the disposal of immovable property shall be issued depending on the land by either the general administration or the district authority. So there's a decision, a permit. The Germans especially see that they do not acquire foreigners. etc., etc., etc. Examples can be given further. We've got 40-page expertise on this. In Denmark, the buyer or spouse or children at the time of the acquisition may not own a holding in another country. The buyer then settled permanently in the territory of Denmark within 6 months of the acquisition of the real estate. So he has to live there. The holding of Spain should be at least 50% earning your income from agricultural work. We don't impose it. Yeah, well, I guess those things are pretty clear. Now the staff you're so worried about. I'm responsible for the proper implementation of the laws. And I have to provide as many people as he has to do so so he doesn't break the law. And as many people as it will be, time will tell.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u215	Good. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u216	I'm still here, if you don't mind... First of all, let me clarify, Minister. One sentence for the first question. Thank you for reading this; I have the same before me and I have read it too. I ask whether, in the opinion of the Minister, the Polish system is more restrictive than in other countries, or if it is identical with other systems. Just one sentence, no quote. Secondly, with regard to employment, I do not question the fact that the Minister has a constitutional obligation to implement the law. I'm not questioning that. I'm asking if the Minister's assessment will require an increase in employment and that such calculations have been made... If not, Minister, that's also the answer. So were the calculations made regarding the need to increase employment in connection with the implementation of this law? And thirdly, I will repeat the question that the Minister has not answered. This is the issue of the transfer, sale of land to the Church and possible speculation by churches and religious unions during the further distribution of this land.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u217	As for the employment of the President, it is not apparent from the statements and information submitted to me by the President that there is a need to increase employment, so to speak, quantitatively, if that is what you mean. In qualitative terms, it may be necessary to change something, while the President does not anticipate quantitative changes. As far as churches and religious unions are concerned, the Sejm has adopted a solution that we as a government support. It contains the right of first purchase and the right of acquisition. In our view, at this stage, This is sufficient to safeguard the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u218	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u219	Minister, I will now move on to a specific matter, because I believe that the law in its form at the moment is bad, bad and will block economic development in Poland. You can only see agricultural matters, and you can't see that there is still all economic development outside of agriculture, and there are many other sectors that need to develop. Ladies and gentlemen, only an individual farmer may be the buyer of agricultural real estate. It has been defined what agricultural property is. This means agricultural property within the meaning of the Civil Code, excluding real estate located in areas where there is a spatial planning plan. So, in general, we can say this: you've been discussing the plans, what it looks like, that the country is covering the development plan for twenty-seven percent of the land; there are municipalities where the plans are made. more or less. Every local governmentman knows exactly what it is like to adopt such plans as it takes a long time and what the consequences are of adopting spatial planning plans. This is very often important because of the fact that e.g. You have to build a road or get a water supply. This is the result of the zoning plan, so let's not be surprised that, where there are non-urbanised areas, municipalities do not make most of these plans. And now, Minister, a simple example. Well, suppose there is no spatial planning in the area, but there is a study. In the study, the area is intended for residential construction, but there is no development plan, so an individual farmer can buy the property. And he's buying property in this area. Then he should grow something there for 10 years, in accordance with the principle, but in the meantime a spatial planning plan is adopted. The plan must be consistent with the study. The Minister knows very well what it all looks like. You're a surveyor, and I'm a surveyor, too, so we know exactly that. Well, the plan must be in harmony with the study. Let's just say that the plan is now being adopted, and in this plan there is a change of destination. It is to be an area for single-family construction. And we know that the farmer bought the property and he's gonna have to run it for 10 years. I'm just going back to the fact that you've done some shut-down. With regard to the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury, the State in several cases excluded the prohibition that it could not be sold for 5 years. And there's a study, a local development plan, a final decision, a property in a special economic zone, etc. However, you did not introduce this exemption for individual farmers. In this situation, we have an imbalance, because the agency can sell... Well, basically it can't for five years, but it can sell at all, and as far as an individual farmer is concerned, there is no exemption. Therefore, in the near future, if it turns out that there will be no zoning plan, we will block the development of cities, especially on the outskirts, in areas where there is no zoning plan. And it's gonna be a stalemate because you just can't invest there. Therefore, as I said, there will probably be an increase in the value of real estate, because where you can buy, this value will grow, and in the village there will be a decrease in the value of real estate. Minister, did you notice that? And don't you think that you're just gonna do it without changing it? And the local authorities have already raised in this case That you will block economic development, especially in cities?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u220	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u221	I don't share your argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u222	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Wiesław Kilian a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. In the Act we have listed entities whose law does not apply to the acquisition of land. It is a close person, self-government units, legal persons acting on the basis of the laws on the relationship of the state to the Church, churches and religious unions. And my question... Our country is obliged to transfer 15 hectares of land to those entities I have exchanged. Do you have any knowledge of how many entities are involved in this transfer of land? And what areas might that apply? And does this law make it easier, or does it make it difficult to transfer the land to those entities I have spoken of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u224	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u225	I don't know how many entities it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u226	Thank you very much. Now Senator Kazimierz Kleina asks a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have already asked Senator Chróścikowski such a question concerning the issue of the sale by the Agricultural Property Agency of those facilities which do not serve agricultural production. But there are other halls in the Popegeer area, etc., etc. Right? They're on agricultural land. If the agency wanted to separate an object that does not serve agricultural production, it would appear that this is not possible under this law. Right? Or is it possible? Should it be possible to introduce an amendment that would allow such an opportunity to be able to develop such facilities? For example, there are also palaces that are on agricultural land It's true, isn't it? And their sales will be excluded unless with the whole... Well, you can't sell it with the whole farm either, of course, because it's stopped, but so it doesn't waste, it doesn't destroy, maybe you could separate the plot... [[There's no way...]] ...which are related to the maintenance of these properties so that it can possibly be sold. That would apply to these types of objects. And second question. If the young person who wants to become a farmer - No, he must be qualified, etc. And he's so qualified, and he's got all the possibilities... But if her parents wanted to buy her a farm outside the community where they live, that's not gonna happen right now, is it? So we're not giving a chance to create new farms, especially for young people living in those areas where there's a hunger for land. This is evident, for example, from us, in Kaszubach, in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, where there are a lot of people who want to manage, who are still farming and who are doing it well, but they are looking for land, for example, in the former Pomeranian or Koshalin Voivodeship. But in the light of this law, unfortunately, such opportunities will be limited. I've had a meeting in these cases in the last weeks or days, and that's what I've been getting interested in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u228	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u229	As for the first question, about these palaces, I already answered that the legal solution in this law can always be found. It is possible for the President to make a decision and, in exceptional cases, to sell such immovable property. And when it comes to buying, it regulates the mouth. 4. If someone wants to create a family farm, they can also, with the President's consent, by means of his decision, create such a farm and meet those conditions which are enshrined in the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u230	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I understand that it is so that the speed of implementation of these rules is simply due to the need, because the existing rules on restrictions on the purchase of land end. On the other hand, it is true that the law is very complicated, very detailed and is very concerned among villagers. I also know that from my district. Mr Babalski at the meeting of the Legislative Commission said And I take it very positively in this situation. That we will see how this bill will work in life, and after some period has passed, we will update it, taking into account what life will bring. I'd like to ask you two things. First of all, does the Minister maintain the declaration of Minister Babalski? Secondly, I would like to ask you, at what time do you then envisage a summary of the effects of this law and possible legislative amendments to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u232	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u233	Mr. Senator! I go to the country. I have already said that everyone is in favour of this law: agricultural chambers, trade unions, solidarity, which fought for these solutions, Serafin and its agricultural circles. If I go to the country... I've been to the country a few times recently, there were 300.400 farmers. After explaining it, they gave me a round of applause. So I don't see the anxiety. Where did you see him? Bring in those farmers, like the PSL who brought in their activists and protested. That was the first case. Second thing. The 2003 Act was to be assessed every 3 years. This assessment was not carried out. Each law in the State is assessed in terms of its implementation, and can be done at the end of a year or after a year; then it can certainly be assessed, depending on whether real situations arise during application... Which I don't believe, because it's already been arranged so precisely, explained that there shouldn't be any surprises.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u234	Thank you very much. Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u235	For the last time, I think, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I was asking about the ruined bloomers. I didn't just mean the agency, but also the individuals that have today... You explained that today they will not be able to sell their property to whoever they want, but in this case I will make an amendment. I really care about the issue of enforcement proceedings, because it really shouldn't be that the law hurts and creditors and debtors. This is indeed a big problem. I'd like you to lean on it. I would like to ask you, very briefly, one more question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2a are the records that have already been mentioned. It is about the catalogue of statutory exemptions, but also about the possibility of acquiring land, i.e. the transfer of the town, the Polish town... We're talking about a normal turnover where people would like to live in the countryside. This is at the request of the seller or buyer... I'm concerned about two things. One. Minister, I would like you to explain to me, explain to me, in my opinion, this should be clarified in the Law Let me put it this way: there are no criteria, there is no directory, no one knows who will make an evaluation of this guarantee. I'm always very afraid of this discretion in my laws. This law is designed to prevent the earth's drain. Okay, I get it. Out of our borders, because that is the intention of the bill, but I believe that it is also not intended to allow for any corrupt behavior. In my view, any such impreciseness can create such a thing, so I would like to ask how it should be understood and who will be the body, opinion or opinion-making. That was the first line. And that's a very brief second point. Because there's a compulsion to live for five years after the acquisition by a natural person... Then in the article. 2b is referred to the compulsion of personal holding for 10 years. There are also exemptions which concern only the catalogue of institutions and do not concern individual farmers in the mouth at all. 4. My question, Minister, is: what will happen to people who will not meet these requirements after the acquisition of the property? I mean, they won't live for five years, they won't run farms alone for 10 years, for various reasons, not necessarily indicated in the mouth. 4 random reasons, but even such that. after 5 years of this person After all, there's a free country. He'll see, he'll say he doesn't, but it's not that, he'll say he wants to go back to his apartment, for example. He has to take care of the baby... [[Question, Senator, question.]] For this reason, I ask you to clarify the 2 terms that concern me, the first is to guarantee proper agricultural activity, and the second is to determine the excessive concentration of land, and to answer the question of what will happen to farmers who will buy or run family farms and will not meet the imposed criteria, i.e. those 5 years of living, possibly 10 years of independent personal management. That's what I'd like to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u236	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u237	All I'm saying is that in France it's 15 years, in Denmark it's 20, and somehow the French aren't worried about it. As far as the guarantee of proper conduct is concerned, such solutions are already accepted. A similar solution is being dealt with. I've already mentioned it here. In the Law on Counsels, in the Law on Lawyers, there is also a guarantee. [[If...]] I'll finish up, Senator. [[Good.]] Such a guarantee can be given by local agricultural chambers, by trade unions, because it is a decision. Senator, you can't name all the cases. The body that makes the decisions... Whoever wants to buy has to prove it, which is to present evidence, and the evidence can be an opinion, for example. the district board of agricultural chambers or other bodies. That's enough for the organ. [[The voice from the hall: They don't know...]] It's judged, we don't hide, but it's in a lot of laws, and that's a solution that's accepted here. You know, I can't prove that white is black because it can't be done. [[Minister, I...]] That's just my explanation. [[I'll ask you literally one sentence, because you know the marshal that it's already...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u238	Senator, but in one sentence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u239	I just want to clear this up. With regard to the Law on Counselors, about the Law on U.S.P., there is even a good character, there is the whole procedure, there are studies, applications, etc., and then the activity as a public officer, even in the case of a judge. Here is the individual farmer He's got to have, he's got to have some qualifications. Who lived 100 km away. How's he gonna give you a warranty? Who's gonna be the judge of that? He wants to buy land here, there's some land there, he's already fulfilling those requirements. It is about clarifying who will issue this opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u240	Thank you, Senator. Minister, please address these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u241	There's no exchange of all cases. Senator, let's trust some power. The authorities will determine whether this warranty is legitimate or not. Everything can be determined in Poland. So that I can tell you so much, I can't explain you anymore. Either you don't want to understand, or it's just an explanation... [[Thank you very much.]] One more thing. As far as the ten-year deadline is concerned, there are different possibilities, the court may authorise the disposal of the agency, and if this is not respected, it may simply apply for the acquisition of this property.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u242	Thank you, Minister. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u243	Minister, what has the Home Office determined about the illegal purchase of land by foreigners? I'm sure the Minister has examined the question of how much land the foreigners bought illegally. As I understand it was the basis for preparing this law, that is the ratio legis of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u244	That question has already been asked, and the answer has been, but please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u245	As far as I can remember, it was about 2,000 ha. Official information about the so-called. We don't have any poles. The opinion of the European Commission, which has been presented to the public, speaks of 200 000 ha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u246	Minister, how many cases have there been? [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Please?]] How many cases were conducted by the police, the D.A.'s office? I'm asking because it's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I don't have that information, I don't know. We can go in writing and ask. Thank you very much. [[I'd ask for that information.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u248	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u249	Minister! First of all, that's a general remark. The Minister has taken our doubts so seriously several times, and I would like to remind you that many doubts about the holes in this bill have also been raised by the Senators of Law and Justice. However, I think we should lean on this and not throw away our doubts and ours in such an easy way. I'd like the Minister to comment on three cases. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 29b is quite obvious lapsus purely legal. Someone didn't see to it, they wrote it wrong. The point is, whoever makes a false statement is punished for making false statements. This may give rise to far - reaching doubts as to whether this article will work at all. I would like the Minister to comment on whether, if we change this, the Minister will support... The point is to be clear. I understand there's gonna be some adjustments. Could the Ministry comment on this? As I say, it can happen that it won't work at all. This is the first case. The second point concerns Article. 2a in conjunction with Article. Point 1a (6). In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1a point 6 we have a definition of a loved one. It's about the initials, the replacements, the siblings. Art. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 point 1a: the provisions on these restrictions shall not apply to the acquisition of agricultural property by a person close to the seller. Aren't you afraid... Have you considered in the Ministry, or is this not the gateway to this bill? Agricultural land can acquire one brother, spare another, his family... He can buy them all the time and then share them. This is the gateway to the circumvention of this bill. Do you see such danger, or do you not see it? The last question concerns Article. 6 Act on the Agricultural System. It states that an individual farmer, that is, the one who can be acquired, is considered to be the natural person who owns it, the perpetual user, etc. agricultural property of which the area does not exceed 300 ha, having agricultural qualifications and for at least 5 years, please note this In the municipality in which one of the agricultural real estate belonging to the holding is situated. I am not, I admit, a specialist in rural relations, but I had signals that there could be a large group of such farmers who have their farms only in the neighbouring municipality or live in a village which is excluded from this municipality because there are such villages. In the light of this provision, it may happen that they will not be able to meet the conditions referred to in the Act. Does the Minister share this doubt and, if not, what rules would possibly indicate that the doubts I have been notified have no basis? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u250	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u251	As you said, the definition of an individual farmer in this bill... acquisition of real estate or sale of real estate could be made to this farmer. And these are the current cases, the facts. We are not interfering with this law in the actual state of affairs that currently exists. As for the options of crime that you are suggesting, there are really many things in the law that can be invented, and I think that this law can certainly create other situations that the legislator, the Sejm and the Senate, and also the government, could not foresee. I would like to remind you that the law has been assessed by many backgrounds, by the Legislative Council, by the ministries and by lawyers in the Seym and the Senate. But you know how we know life, you can come up with different situations. Maybe. American becomes Polish and then American again. If we start thinking like that, we're not gonna write it all down. The State is in order to establish the basic standards as detailed as possible and at the same time intervene in cases where these standards are violated. As far as the first case is concerned, the amendment to the article. 29b. 2 is supported by us; it is about replacing the words of false testimony with false statements. The government supports this amendment and how the Senate decides We'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u252	Thank you, Minister. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u253	Minister, I'll start with where Senator Staroń ended up, just more specifically. In the opinion of Professor Kozycka, doubts were raised as to the fact that the statements concerning the granting of guarantees for the proper running of the holding are vague and need to be clarified. What is your attitude towards the amendment proposed by the professor? You write that the Agency's assessment will also be subject to excessive concentration. This is also the point that the professor points out, claiming that this is a completely vague concept, and makes a concrete proposal for an amendment. What is the Minister's attitude towards this amendment? Because I'm sure you know her. I would also like to ask the question that I have already asked the rapporteur here. Namely, in the area of my residence there are many great landowners. On the wall of western Poland is nothing unusual, that farms with their size significantly exceed 300 ha. Some of these owners lease tens or even hundreds of hectares from the agency. What will happen now, under the new law, if farmers who are neighbouring these great years of funding want to buy such leased land because they have less than 300 hectares. Will the agency be obliged to sell the land after the lease expires? Will he even be obliged to declare this lease so that smaller farmers can buy land?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u254	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u255	Thank you very much. As far as the Professor's opinion is concerned, of course I know that opinion. It confirms our right reasoning. I'm talking about the guarantees. It also proposes that the determination of whether the purchaser guarantees the holding shall be made on the basis of the opinion of the farmhouse or the opinion of the village council. And here we have an even better approach, because we say that the buyer is submitting an application and can present opinions from other bodies. 'Cause sometimes the farmhouse isn't necessarily in a given area... She is often politicized and can give different opinions. So that it is up to the authority to take into account the opinion and it is up to the applicant to convince the decision-making body. As far as concentration is concerned, this is it. It's kind of a future thing. We in these development plans must determine how these properties are placed in this structural plan. In general, at this stage we're talking about 300 hectares, so that there's no more than 300 hectares. What else did you ask? Excuse me... [[Those two lines.]] Yes? Thank you very much. I don't think there are any more volunteers, so thank you. [[Voices from the O.R.: They're willing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u256	Please, who's next? [[Mr. Jerzy Czerwinski.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome. There isn't? [[I'm here.]] Did the senator ask you a question? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u257	Minister, the continuation of the facts... On Monday's Senator's shift, a group of pensioners, former cooperative workers... [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Sorry, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u258	Excuse me. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u259	Because I have to go to the session of the Parliamentary Committee, Minister Babalski will continue, if I may. [[Well, I'd rather have Minister Babalski go to the Sejm committee, but if you want to leave us...]] This is a case that I personally oversee, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u260	Then please, Minister. [[Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: Thank you.]] There you go, Mr. Senator, say it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u261	As I say, the facts directly from Monday. A group of pensioners who have been removed from a group of members of the agricultural production cooperative informs me that this production cooperative is trying to sell its real estate in a violent way. It's mostly about arable land over 300 hectares. I heard she found a buyer. He's doing it to get past the bill that's supposed to come into force on April 30th. Minister, do you not think that it is appropriate to amend the transitional provisions of this Act so that all these processes which have been initiated but not completed since the entry into force of the Act have been carried out according to the new rules, and not according to the old ones, not according to the old ones? I'll make one more argument. Please note that what we want most, namely the sale of land to foreigners... From 1 May, it will not be possible to require these foreigners to apply to the Minister of the Interior for authorisation because the provisions of the Treaty expire. If there are no provisions of the Treaty, any secondary law, i.e. a law and regulation, which require such authorisation, will simply be incompatible with higher-ranking legislation. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u262	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u263	As for the cooperative case... Some trials take a long time, Mr. Senator. It's just not allowed here for the moment, and it won't be. As far as foreigners are concerned, yes, that's true. After the adoption of this law, they will not have to apply for this consent. I'd like you to clarify the question. How will this apply to the bill we are going to adopt? I assume we'll adopt a law to stop the sale of land. Is that what you asked? Because I didn't really understand. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u264	Yeah, yeah. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u265	We begin the procedure under old legislation, under which a certain restriction on the acquisition of land by foreigners was the need to speak to the Minister of Home Affairs on this matter. Now, I'd say, we're entering into the process of the new law, we have a day, for example. 1 May But in the transitional provisions, we allow the application of the old rules in the case of procedures initiated and not completed. Only in these old regulations there is no obligation, an obligation to apply for this authorisation. The new bill is more restrictive... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: But this procedure must be completed...]] ...but we don't use it in this case. The old one is less restrictive, but there was this brake in the form of an obligation to apply for authorisation. And that brake's gone. And that is why I propose that in the transitional provisions we specify that for processes started and not completed, for procedures started and unfinished apply new rules, more restrictive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u266	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u267	You're going further than the government's supposed to. Well, we're not gonna apply it, we're just gonna come in with a new bill, and we're not gonna assume transition periods in this case, and we're not gonna assume that, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u268	Thank you, Minister. Senator Przemysław Terminski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u269	Hello, Minister. As for the terms that I already mentioned in the previous question, I will allow myself the complexity of the terms resulting from how this law is to be applied to the Civil Code, to add to the question which I will address in writing to the Ministry, because this law constitutes lex specialis and opens a large scope for interpretation in the context of the Civil Code. And my question is different. According to this law, agricultural property can only be acquired by an individual farmer, such is the provision. However, we do not have a precise definition of agricultural property. Why? Because we define it by the prism of the civil code. Art. 461 of the Civil Code states that agricultural real estate is real estate which is or can be used to carry out agricultural activities in the field of plant, animal, garden, fruit, fish production. That's the record. This is a rather vague definition and therefore the Supreme Court has defined it in its judgments. Today's practice is that, of course, agricultural property belongs, which seems natural, setbacks, bents, but also all buildings, properties that can potentially be used for agricultural purposes. And it doesn't matter that they've been used for some years, e.g. for commercial, service or production purposes. I think that's the way the Supreme Court is going. The adoption of such a very broad definition and, at the same time, the requirement that only an individual farmer can buy this agricultural property means that a very large number of real estate will be created. Which we can't even define today, notaries won't be able to define. For which no one else will be able to be a buyer. Minister, I don't even expect you to agree or not. That is the case today with the provisions and the proposed law. And my question is different. Is it true? 'Cause I understand this law 'that the real estate that is in the city centers and not covered by the local land development plan will also be able to buy only farmers? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: This bill...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u270	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u271	This bill defines it precisely. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The agricultural land can first be acquired by individual farmers in an absolute manner. Other people, too, after obtaining the right consent. Each case can be considered individually. Mr Senator, I will once again say what Minister Jurgiel said: the basic objective that was set is to protect agricultural land and use it as intended. Agricultural land is intended for the production of Polish, healthy food. I assume so. And I don't empathize with those words, but that was the basic goal, not the use of the earth as capital. Indeed, the best capital, because in these twenty years no bank has added as the value of the land increased from 400 PLN to 40 000 which we have today. The agricultural land should be in the hands of a Polish farmer, that is the main goal and that is what we will stick to, that is the principles of this law and we also want it to be carried out by the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u272	Thank you. [[Can I ad vocem?]] Ad vocem no, you can ask the question again. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: We can argue, well...]] [[To clarify that question...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u273	I do not question that there is healthy food, that the land in the hands of farmers, I support all this. The only problem is that if someone on the farm property for, I don't know, 15 years is doing business and he's gonna want to sell this property, only a farmer can buy it. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: He runs a trade activity, which is simply this land was for this... I don't know.]] [[Deputy Director of the Department of Earth Economy in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Abramowicz: It is an agricultural property.]] That's not true. The earth wasn't transformed. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: This does not meet the conditions that you previously mentioned concerning real estate. This isn't a farm property.]] Well, unfortunately, it is. In Poland we have such a situation that local plans include at all maximum 30% real estate, in the case of the rest of the planning areas there are no and people are operating... I don't know. I'm shooting. Someone built a shop by the road on agricultural land It will always be agricultural property. [[Deputy Director of the Department of Earth Economy at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Abramowicz: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u274	No way. I don't share your view, but maybe we can move this argument out of this room... [[Good.]] We don't agree with your opinion. Mr. Senator, it's not like you... [[It's not my opinion. It's the Supreme Court.]] It's not what you say.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u275	The Minister disagrees with your opinion, Senator... [[He has the right.]] And you... [[Voice from the room:...Sławomir Rybicki.]] No, Senator Piotr Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u276	Minister, I'll limit myself to the last question right now. I've already asked the Senator of the rapporteur. We repeat this here all the time that the buyer of agricultural property can only be an individual farmer, and there we have 4 exceptions, I mean the exception for a loved one. At a meeting with farmers, I was asked about a close person, who it was. Is your son-in-law close or is your brother-in-law close? Will it be possible to sell this property, sign it over to this person or not? I'd like to know what the definition of a loved one is and where it's written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u277	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u278	Allow me, Mr. Marshal, that this question, which came not only from the Senator's mouth, because many people have asked this question, I will answer it in writing precisely. Okay? [[All right. There you go.]] I'm sure the uncle will, too, the children too, Mr. Senator, but I'm not going to mention them all now, because I can skip someone and the next question will be about it again. The precise answer to this question will be given in writing. [[Because I wanted to ask you about the concierge.]] Please? [[A concubine or a concubine.]] [[No.]] No. I'm determined to say no. [[No?]] No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u279	Good. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u280	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at the earlier stage of the discussion, I asked the rapporteur about this circumstance. The NGO, which is involved in charity activities, intends to conduct agricultural activities... in order to acquire agricultural land on which it would like to carry out charity activities consisting, for example, in, I don't know, the assistance of disabled people in an adaptation centre for the unemployed. This may happen because we know from practice that many organizations build such centres. The Act favours religious unions who will be able to acquire real estate for such purposes. What will be the situation of non-governmental organisations wishing to conduct such activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u281	The situation is that this organization will not have these powers. But, Mr. Senator, it seems to me that it is not complicated because the government is excluded from this law, so the local government, by purchasing such property, may as well transfer this property to such non-governmental organizations. So there's no... I don't think that's a problem. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u282	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u283	I'll let you disagree with that. I imagine an institution... that the local government conducts or supports commercial activities in the care of those in need, and the NGO would like to conduct charity activities in the community. And then there's a conflict of interest. It seems to me that the law in this space is imperfect, and I think it is worth remembering this for the future, in order to create such an opportunity not only for religious unions but also for other public benefit organisations that want to carry out charitable activities on agricultural land.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u284	Self-government... [[How about an amendment?]] Can you let me answer the question, Marshal? [[Of course.]] Maybe it's not an answer. It's more like polemics. I do not agree with the fact that the local government is engaged in commercial activities. The local government has a public activity, Mr. Senator, in favour of the inhabitants of the municipality concerned. If I remember correctly, and I was the mayor of a 35-thousand-dollar city, the government has such opportunities in its tasks. [[Mr. Marshal, one more thing, not polemics, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u285	But not polemics, just a question. Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u286	Minister, addiction to the will of the local government, which once has good will, once this good will does not have to have, is a publicly useful and charitable activity, a criminal undertaking, a criminal legal structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u287	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u288	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would ask for an amendment that came to the Sejm. The point is that legal persons acting on the basis of the laws on the relationship of the State to the Catholic Church in the Republic of Poland, on the relationship of the State to other churches and religious associations and on the guarantees of freedom of conscience and religion are entitled to benefit from the Law on formation. The question arises as to what some experts are looking at. In Poland, the possibility of establishing a religious union is quite liberal: 100 people with legal capacity to establish such a union are sufficient. Moreover, also non-Polish people can participate in the registration of such a relationship. Is the government... This amendment, I would say, jumped in the course of the Seym work, so it was sort of outside of this original government submission, which did not have this type of regulation. Did the government not wonder that the fear that this relatively easy establishment of a religious union could be a real temptation to acquire agricultural property without statutory restrictions by non-individual farmers? Can it not be ruled out that this can unfortunately happen e.g. for speculative purposes? Would it not therefore be appropriate, in the Minister's opinion, to look at this provision and clarify it or to neutralise such possible effects? There is quite a wide discussion on this subject, and there are some doubts here. I absolutely do not want to accuse anyone of bad will or anything like that, but this liberal possibility of registering a religious union may prove to be a barrier that will be relatively easy to overcome to achieve real, measurable economic benefits. Has the government considered this and considered the possibility of sealing this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u289	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u290	At this stage, Mr. Senator, no, but there are always dangers. They relate not only to this record, but also to any record that is included in this Act, as evidenced by the discussion here in this Chamber and the doubts that you present to the senators. For today there are 15 churches and 160 relationships registered. There can always be such temptation. However, I would like to say that the landlord, the State, is carrying out these rights today by the Agricultural Property Agency There is no compulsion to sell. And we have to remember that. We exclude from this act the entities that have been designated here, which does not mean that we have a duty as owner, as a state to dispose of this land. It's such a danger, Mr. Senator, I can't see, but I want to say it again. Mr Jurgel confirmed this. I think this government will certainly introduce this good practice. Any law adopted by the Sejm and the Senate will be monitored and evaluated in due time, with the possibility of possible revision. We're not ashamed of it and we're not afraid of it. I am here for the third term, and I know the state in which the laws were sometimes passed, in such a way that they had to be amended immediately, after 2 and 3 months. We're open to it, and we're just gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u291	It's me. Minister, I particularly agree with Senator Jackowski here, I agree that this is a gateway not because of the theory. We had such opportunities, in the first half of the 1990s there were possibilities for the Catholic Church to bring in certain luxuries without duty. I would like to remind you, Minister, that some priests brought 500 antennas to receive satellite television, and that religious unions were formed that brought non-duty cars from abroad. This was due to the ease of establishing religious relationships. After all, if we were here in the Senate to create a religious union of senators, we'd do it easily, 100 people and that's it. This is after the entry into the European Union, and this does not only apply to the citizens of Poland, but to all citizens of the European Union. I am therefore asking you whether the Minister does not believe that there is a need for a restriction, a tightening. Of course, this can be done in the Law on religious relationships, but for various reasons it would be difficult, but in this Act, where, as a rule, this record was inserted on the side... The question is, isn't there some kind of sharpening that should be done with this experience? That's the first question. The second question concerns the Catholic Church. How much land is in the possession of the Catholic Church? What would be the turnover in this group? Oh, one more thing about the first question. The Lord speaks, and probably rightly so. The Agency may control this in the event of the disposal of the Agency's land. Only that these restrictions apply not only to the land of the agency being sold, but also to the agricultural land in general. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I will answer immediately.]] In this case, the agency will not be able to control it. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: She will be able to.]] That's it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u292	Mr. Marshal, the Senators, they will be able to, because the agency will also have the right of first-buy. If Senator Jackowski was asking this question in terms of speculation, then I'll say there won't be speculation, because the agency will have the right to buy it first. She will not have the right of first-hand buying when the earth is traded between churches or unions. And if there's a trial... [[Inside?]] Yeah, inside. If an attempt to speculate or sell comes out, then the agency will have the right to pre-emption, it will be able to intervene. It's written down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u293	Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: There you go.]] Senator Mieczysław Augustyn:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u294	Minister! I am pleased to hear that you share the opinion of some parliamentarians that it is worth supporting agricultural cooperatives, because this can and can be an important element of development and modernity in agriculture. However, with regard to this law, it seems to me that it would be worth to exclude cooperatives from the rule of this law, or to create for them an opportunity similar to that of churches, but not for charitable purposes, but for the purpose of carrying out agricultural activities. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Agricultural activities.]] I would like to propose such an amendment, because I think that she, firstly, would guarantee that the land would be in Polish hands, and secondly, would encourage cooperatives to expand their area. I know because I was, we talked, so... hopefully the Minister won't mind. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: No.]] I know that, of course, it could be done in such a way that each member of the cooperative acquires and brings as a participation... But I'm sure it would be difficult. This better be common property from the very beginning. If co-operatives could do that, it would be conducive to their development... [[Thank you...]] Oh, I was gonna finish with a question. Would the Minister agree to make an amendment in one of these formulas?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u295	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u296	That's not an option for today, Senator. I'm sorry, but I answer as it is. Why isn't that possible? Because Minister Krzysztof Jurgel here, from this speaker, said what is the next action plan. As with this bill... She is not a law ending and closing, but a law giving us the time to clarify and present to the Sejm and to the High Senate the law fulfilling the article. 23 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which provides that family farms are the basis for the management in Poland. Thus, the bill discussed here is not a target. That's one thing. About the cooperatives... I repeat what Minister Jurgiel said last week. The Minister held the first meeting, in a fairly broad body, on cooperative law and regulation of these issues. This meeting was attended by practically every page... so to speak, every political option. And, as this first meeting has already shown, it looks like it will be good cooperation and in the near future there will also be a legal, statutory solution regarding the honour of cooperatives. And for today, I can answer that. I don't want to start with what I'm going to say at the end of a new discussion, but some people say there's been some sort of historic moment and justice. Of course, they said it in a joke. They said: in the times of the Polish People's Republic, pegeers and cooperatives were preferred, and now you turn the case around and prefer individual farmers. Well, that's what they think, and that's what they think. I, of course, accept them. a little as a joke, but there's some truth in them. Because we know how individual farmers were treated in times of heavy PRL. We're going to the family farms today. That's the direction today, and that's the pressure. What does not close, I repeat, matters concerning cooperatives and other forms that exist and manage on Polish agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u297	Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I agree with what was said by Minister Jurgiel and Minister about the fact that agricultural land ownership it is a specific property in each country and should be subject to different types of protection. As far as supporting family farms is concerned, it is me, of course, to end speculation. I'm signing off on that, too. But a few moments ago you told the Minister that the bill discussed here is also intended to serve to ensure that Poland's land is only in the hands of Polish citizens. Could you point me out to the minister because I don't know... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Polish farmers, Mr. Senator. I know what I said.]] Polish farmers. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: And that's the difference, because not every Polish citizen is a farmer.]] [[Unfortunately.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: But every farmer is a citizen.]] I am now referring to the issue of this Polish farmer. As I understand it, if a farmer from the European Union I don't want to say that from Germany, because the Minister may be reacting badly right now... But if, for example, A farmer from the Netherlands will dream of living in Poland, checking in, meeting all the requirements and wanting to buy land, will he be able to buy it or not? Because I've already doubted it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u299	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u300	Senator, there are already such people in Poland today. Live, live, host, get rights. We are talking about Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury. It simply does not agree to the sale and to Polish farmers, and to farmers from the countries of the European Union. We're talking stock. And for private marketing, there is an institution called the Agricultural Property Agency, which has powers, no obligation, interference in transactions, if there are grounds for breaching the law, which I hope we will adopt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u301	Thank you, Minister. Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u302	First, Minister, I'd like to help you a little... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Thank you.]] Yes, sir. Senator Florek asked me who these loved ones were. I would like to inform you that in the article. The 2th Act on the shaping of the agricultural system is described. These are the successors, the initials, the siblings, the husband's children, I understand that not from this marriage. .. and persons appointed. That's where it's described. Yeah, that's it. The mother-in-law's problem needs to be dealt with separately. [[Voice from the room: As always.]] Same as always. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, I'd like to ask. That's the same question I asked your predecessors on that platform. They couldn't answer. Senator Chróścikowski sent him to the Minister, the Minister said he didn't know. But maybe you do. Namely, I return to the situation when the land acquires a non-farmer and the president of the agency must give consent. The President of the Agency shall grant such consent upon request. There has to be an application, otherwise what kind of consent will he give? And one of the two operators who can apply for this is a natural person who wishes to set up a family farm. I ask you: who will this person buy land from?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u303	From the extortionist, Mr. Senator. [[That's right. But who's gonna be the salesman? For example.]] It can be a farmer and it should be a farmer, because the farmer most often has agricultural land. [[Yes, sir. And just when I was giving this example, Senator Dobrzyński wasn't here right now, so to speak, he was yelling at me. Now he's gone, so we can calmly... well, that farmer's gonna be the loser. Yes?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u304	And will the rules that are written here and apply to the buyer who wants to set up a family farm be effective or not? I'll remind you that there's three rules in there, three rules in there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u305	They'll be in effect, Senator. [[They'll apply, that's right. Finally. At least that's what we figured out. Gentlemen wanted to convince me that they would not apply, because it is enough that the seller would not be able to sell this land to another farmer, and then he would be able to sell it to practically anyone...]] Permission granted. [[...who gives the warranty.]] Yes, with permission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u306	But you just said that the buyer rules will apply. And that's where it's said Besides this guarantee, which has already been mentioned here and which is a rather unhappy formulation and a very narrow, very indeterminate, that he must have agricultural qualifications. I'm going back to that with stubbornness. And the agricultural qualifications that are defined in another article are so formulated that no one who has worked in the field will be able to buy this land. And this is about a man who didn't work in the field. That's a little bit, Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I'll answer.]] This, Minister, reminds us of this announcement: any young man can be our manager, provided he has a five-year position as manager. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: We have recently left this place.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u307	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u308	Mr. Senator, we've been out of this lately, and we've been criticized, too. It's about the internship. Because, in fact, these people have to do it somewhere. In management positions, the most common and best performing managerial traineeships are. Mr. Senator, thank you for your help. I know it's described, but I'm just not that good at it. I'm talking about loved ones. I don't know. To answer the question that came in the clowns today, whether the uncle's brother is a close person or not. [[Voice from the room: Of course it is.]] Like I said, I'm not just gonna answer 'cause I'm not that deep in it. That is why we are going to specify these uncle brothers and other relatives so that we can really clarify who is close. 'Cause it says right here, but it's all still... And the senators aren't the only ones asking. It's just that people ask, is this one, or is he, or is he a close person? [[Voice from the room: Ideological approach...]] Okay, but thank you for your help. Now it's the mouth thing. 4. I think we're going back to that for the fourth time, Mr. Senator. I'm sure of what I'm saying. I'm not gonna say I think I do, I'm sure. You have to treat these two points together here, Mr. Senator. We just gave... I'll simplify it, maybe make it more complicated. We've created such a good time here that anyone who loves this land, even though they come from the city... There's no Senator Lydia Oldman in the courtroom who said someone might love him, but maybe after five years he'll run away and want to leave again. Well, that's not one thing with the other either. Such a person will have the right to buy this land from the seller with permission, he will fulfil these conditions, but at the moment he has no agricultural qualifications, Mr. Senator. And the minimum internship to acquire agricultural qualifications is three years. And this is also described in another law which says that a young farmer does not have to have agricultural qualifications, and so they already call him a young farmer then, he can also benefit from the scheme and get a grant of PLN 100,000. But there is a condition written: within 3 years you will gain agricultural qualifications. This is a coincidence. yet a raw man who comes from the city and wants to start an agricultural activity. Paragraph 2 must be treated separately here, because in it we are already talking about a family farm. So in this case, there must already be agricultural qualifications. And at the time of paragraph 1, such a person may acquire agricultural qualifications, or in fact, he should if he wanted to start a family farm. I don't know if I was able to convince your marshal or not. There's one more thing I want to say here. Of course it won't be easy, Mr. Marshal. I refer to Senator Borowski here because I remember him as Marshal of the Sejm. It's not gonna be easy. But that's not why we're doing this law protecting agricultural land to make it easy. We want to show you: any citizen can, but has to meet certain conditions. So if the seller wants to sell me land, and I'm not a farmer, and if the agency agrees to do that, then that means get these qualifications, if you want to host them, and if you realize point 2, you're going to start a family farm. So that the natural person you were just talking about should already have agricultural qualifications.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u309	Thank you, Minister. [[Can I ask you a question? Can I ask you a question?]] There you go. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u310	Minister, as you explain it, which is how it can be and how it should be conducted, e.g. By the agency, I can take it. And if that's the way it's gonna be, we're gonna get out of this. It's just that the problem is that we're producing laws that should really narrow things down, which we can say maybe they'll show up and they'll be good. The law should clarify these matters clearly. And the grudge I have here is, in short, that it's cloudy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u311	Okay, that was just a remark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u312	I accept this remark, Mr. Marshal, but we will no longer argue on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u313	Minister, I have questions, one very specific and one general question. As far as I can tell, the houses that have been built are excluded from the operation of this law restricting the rotation of the land. whether it will be completed by the date of entry into force of the Act. So the turnover and limitations of this law will not apply to houses whose construction has been completed. What about the houses that were built? Will this restriction apply in the form of a law in which it came from the Sejm? That's my one question. The second concerns the enormous competences that the agency, the president of the agency, will have. The Agency will have enormous powers. [[That's what he's got now, Mr. Marshal.]] And you're the minister? [[Not yet.]] I wish you that, of course. [[Senator Dobrzyński showed up...]] I'm asking the Minister because we want to be sure. Are there any rules on the basis of which the agency or the president of the agency will grant permission to trade in land, allowing it to depart from this law? This concerns both the sale of the agency's land and the issue of limiting the marketing of land to individual farmers. Does this bill give you any kind of sharpening? Although it may be as I heard it was, this bill introduces additional restrictions. This isn't the bill that was anymore. Therefore, I ask you, the restrictions are bigger, so I ask you if there are any standards that at least generally indicate that in certain situations the agency will grant permission and in some cases not. I understand there's a warranty record in there. There were questions about what a guarantee means in this situation. More or less we know what that means in law language in general, but I'm afraid that's not enough here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u314	Maybe I'll start with the second question. Indeed, the Agency has had its powers for 13 years, since 2003 and I would like to tell you that for 13 years it has exercised its powers, if I recall correctly, for an area of approximately 55 000 hectares of land. The agency will not be an institution that will stand under a farmer's fence and wait for him to want to dispose of property of 1, 2, 3 or 4 hectares. That's not what this is about. This is about the large areas that are being disposed of. They will be in the agency's interest only to exercise the right of pre-emption, possibly to divide the land according to the expectations of the farmers who live in the municipality, and to leave the land in lease for a period of 5 years, because it will not be possible to dispose of it for 5 years. That will be the role of the agency. So it's not going to be some kind of whip that's going to be over 10 ha, 20 ha or over agricultural land, because I can still calculate, about other surfaces stood, watched them, and exercised the right of the original. The Agency will only do so if it is sold to an entity other than an individual farmer. Today, the turnover of the land in Poland is 80% between farmers, so the rest, what remains, is a small percentage in which also the Agricultural Property Agency participates. I don't know if I answered your question, Mr. Marshal. Anyway, it won't be the agency's role... Different. I repeat, the agency has authority, not duty. This has to be separated. This question also concerned whether there would be rules. Such matters have so far been governed by internal regulations. The internal orders of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency have been clarified e.g. the procedure for dealing with the situation. I'm sure he'll find his place, too. Let me give you a simple example. If we are moving from sale to lease of land that is in the stock of agricultural property of the State Treasury, we already know that we need to develop Mr Jurgel will probably approve this. It's a lease rule, for example. rental was not a determining factor for who wins the tender, because in this race that is taking place today, in many cases the prices of rentals were pierced, which were not realistic at all to reach, and then after the tenders people came out and said: I can't do it, this land will not give me enough income to cover the rental. But they didn't expect to hold off for five years. I've been talking about this a little longer, because it's an important element. And now this land won't be practically... They're gonna have a little problem with this land, because after three years, you can get... It's the first acquisition, the first purchase for whoever owns the lease. I repeat, after three years. It's not here today, because the sale isn't going to happen. And this factor will look like this: the rent will be set at the upper ceiling, but may be taken into account for example other factors such as the nature of running the holding either plant or animal or mixed; the distance of that land which has been tendered, leased, from the holding concerned; the size of the holding of that farmer which will stand for tender. Such factors will be described. So it will be a strict framework, Mr. Marshal, which I'm sure the agency will follow. So I answer the question you didn't directly ask: the President's discretion alone will not be taken into account. I think I answered that question quite precisely. And as for the second part, I don't really understand: today, I'm gonna find things... I'll be hearing things by April 30th. If the Act enters into force, so-called. the construction conditions that are issued are valid and here nothing and no one is touching it. I repeat, no one's touching it. Unfortunately, also after 2003, when it was considered that local plans had been exempted and it was said that spatial planning plans were to be created within 5 years, they had not yet been created. And I regret... Some people say it's hard, it's hard. It is difficult to make such a development plan in rural areas, but in cities it is not so difficult, it just needs good will and effort. I'm sorry that maybe I'm selfish right now because I'm talking about myself. Well, the plan in Ostróda was made in 1997 by an effort of 200,000 PLN, because it cost so much. 25 years have passed and today we say 26% The municipalities in Poland have spatial planning plans. Minister Jurgiel was talking about the fact that within 5 years we want to bring about the situation that space within the administrative boundaries of cities will be ordered and that there will not be such a mess and freedom as they are at the moment. It's convenient for burglary cities. With all due respect to city robbers At the moment, it's convenient for them. There might not be such a mosaic for windmills in agricultural and natural space in Poland, which has appeared for many, many years. 'Cause there were just no plans and you could do... Do whatever you want anyway. So I repeat: the so-called WZ, the built-in conditions, issued until 30 April, are in force, no one repeals them, will be able to continue calmly. [[Minister, I meant another situation.]] On agricultural land? [[Yeah, on agricultural land, which is ungrown. Well, a large part of the city's inhabitants moved out of town...]] But if they started construction, they must have gotten it, Mr. Marshal, consent to it. They had to present documents, they got construction conditions, and they continued construction. And it's not touched right now. We are talking about what awaits us in the future. And what we're doing now is unshakable.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u315	Thank you. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will probably ask the most general question that can be asked on this subject, almost at the end of this extremely interesting and important discussion. As you know perfectly well, EUR 13.5 billion are measures that will, so to speak, intervene in rural areas in Poland, change the Polish village, Polish reality, Polish farmers. 8.6 billion euro out of this amount is directly from the European Union budget, 5 billion is a national contribution. The competitiveness of agricultural holdings is one of the priorities, which is very important from the point of view of the discussion that we are having today on this important act of law - EUR 4.3 billion. As you know perfectly well, Minister, on 1 May 2016, i.e. in less than a month, the transitional period for Poland will pass. So I have this fundamental question: will this law not be controversial in terms of compliance with the accession treaty, to which Poland has become a party by joining the European Union on 1 May 2004? Many experts spoke in the public debate about the risk that there will be allegations of unequal access to Poland in the case of residents of other countries of the European Union. Will this not give rise to possible risks with regard to the Rural Development Programme and support for Polish farmers from these measures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u317	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u318	The government believes that there is no such danger. We have the opinion of the Foreign Minister. The law is not contrary to EU law, on the contrary. If I remember correctly, Art. 345, for instance, the Treaty indicates that Member States have the right to establish ownership rights and in this case the protection of agricultural land. So that there is no such fear. Mr. Senator, this isn't just my grade. This law is in one form or another It should have been adopted several years ago, in 1992, when the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury In fact, there were 3 million 760 thousand hectares of agricultural land here. You also asked how much of this land was left. There are about 1 million 400 thousand ha left in the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury, of which 1 million ha are in leases and 400 thousand are In the so-called. free circulation for possible administration, placing on the market. And, of course, in a moment's time, the question may be whether we've blocked... No, we're gonna start the lease on that 400,000 ha. There's gonna be tenders, actually there are. Now the tender is over under the old law, and in a moment leases will be prepared under the new law. The lease terms will be described. So we do not prevent the use of Polish land, the agency is not from simply holding the land that is to be dead. This land will continue to be traded. Finally, this year, the agricultural land market will reach about 100,000 ha from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury by way of a tender.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u319	Thank you. Senator Slugocki has an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u320	Thank you very much, Minister, for this reply and also for clarifying the issue of the accession treaty and the possible threat of a pejorative decision by the European Commission. I don't know if you'll agree with me, Minister, when I refer to your response to the agency. Earth isn't just to be in the agency's resources, it's to be grown by farmers, best Polish... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Agreed.]] So in my opinion, the state should create such conditions that the land should be in the hands of Polish farmers as soon as possible and give them certain benefits, ensuring food security for us Polish consumers. In my humble opinion, which I am speaking here today, this land should be hit as soon as possible... And I would try to change your answer a little bit. I will say this: if this land had been put into the hands of Polish farmers earlier, today we would have had sufficiently stronger, stronger farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u321	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u322	That's a very good question. Mr. Senator, I'll answer them. Of course, I do not share your view, because the form of lease is a very permanent, very certain form, signed for years. We were 25 and 30 years old, this farm could be planned, everything could be done. Senator, I inform you and you that within 8 years from the Polish village I'm not afraid to say it. Approximately PLN 14 billion were removed, especially after the 2011 Act was introduced. The pursuit of the financial plan, not material, led to a situation in which Polish farmers, practically speaking, were forced to buy land. On the one hand, you could say that the direction was right, because you could own the land, but in order to buy the land, you just had to take loans. I have examples from my region, Warmia and Mazury. I was told that 3.5 million zlotys were drawn from a person, simply forcing him to buy the land. He says, "So what if I have this land, since you are now making sales restrictions. I thought I was gonna sell a piece to pay off the loans. I give examples that I know, because for 8 years I was on the agricultural committee, I drove not only in the Warmia-Mazury region, but also throughout Poland. That bat's got two ends, too. The lease is stable enough for the tenant to be sure and the revenue to the state budget That's what we need to talk about now, too. It's permanent, not disposable. It sells once and, practically speaking, it doesn't go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u323	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u324	Minister, I think we're both a little bit right, but... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Probably so.]] ...despite everything, the choice should belong to the farmers themselves, not to the representatives of the agency or to us gathered here today in the Senate. We should be such legislation as would allow Polish farmers to choose freely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u325	All right, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u326	Thank you, Minister. Senator Sławomir Rybicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u327	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, today during the debate, questions were raised to the Senators of the rapporteurs about the real threat of a decline in the value of the land. In fact, there was no specific answer to this question, but I understand that the Ministry has analysed this situation; it concerns millions of landowners. For peasant reason: if the number of eligible buyers is decreasing, demand competition is decreasing and, in principle, it can be assumed that the price should fall. This is particularly important for certain regions of the country, e.g. Kashub, where the earth is e.g. 6th grade. The limitation of buyers to farmers alone will clearly result in a decrease in the value of this land. I'm asking for an answer, or... I know there's no good, simple answer, because it's probably going to be different depending on the area and the legal situation, but the ministry probably made some estimates about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u328	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u329	Let me put it this way: today, in private, the price of land is within 40 thousand PLN per hectare, we are talking about average prices, in the case of real estate from the farm real estate stock. Within the limits of 29 and 30 thousand zlotys. Mr. Senator, of course I don't entirely share your concern that the price will fall. I think the price of the earth should be real, and today it's not real. It's because of the uncontrollable I'll tell you what. The land market has become ridiculous for 1 ha of agricultural land. We predicted that the price of agricultural land would rise, but in recent years it has already galloped. It wasn't bought by average farmers who don't have the resources, who just don't have the money to do it. There was a fear that the purpose of this gallop behind the ground was simply that capital... Not everyone predicted that this capital would hang out so well. And he's still gonna lay off, and he's gonna lay off if we don't stop the sale of land from the Treasury's Agricultural Property Resources. He'd just lay off. Today in Bavaria it is 80,000 euros. Of course, there is a different relationship here, and there are other forces of the wallet of the people and our farmers there, and I am aware of that. But we also have such valuable agricultural lands, among other things in your voivodship, or Pomorskie, that their prices can really be even higher. I repeat: real price. I'd reverse that question... Because you say demand. When supply decreases, Mr. Senator, I see no reason to be alarmed. If there's less supply on the market, I don't see how much it's gonna cost. Well, let's take a look at it from the other side. Now I'm gonna say what the farmers tell me. Well, they're just saying that the price is gonna fall, either on purpose or they're not too worried. In France, for example, the price is now, in terms of zlotys, 24,000 for 1 ha. There's land in France. There was also a cry at first that they bought more expensive. And now they have this land. And they're not worried at all because they say it's the real price, the way it should be. So that I have the conviction, not only hope, but even the conviction that what we hear, especially from the bankers, the financiers, means that there will be a market imbalance, that the prices will fall dramatically... I wouldn't worry so much about it, and I say it on the basis of meetings with farmers who are held at least once a week in different parts of Poland. Farmers do not care so much about it, they say: let the price be real and not excessive. That's it. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, there's such a contradiction...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u330	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Leszek Czarnobaj. Yes? [[But I'd like to ask you something about this, as part of the same question.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u331	Because the Minister wanted to say earlier that the agency would not sell, but lease, so the demand for the land sold will definitely fall. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Delivery.]] Supply... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: What is for sale.]] I asked you... In Pomerania there are also class VI land, which includes a large part of Kashub. The number of persons entitled to purchase this land will fall dramatically, so the price of this land will necessarily fall as well. And that means the value of the wealth of a huge group of farmers will fall. And I'm worried there's no good answer to that. And the farmer is not interested in buying land from his neighbour, on which he cannot actually grow, he cannot actually grow any crops.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u333	Agreed, but the farmer isn't too interested in the price of 1 ha of land, Mr. Senator. And as for that, I think we have a somewhat converging view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u334	Minister, the demand will fall, but supply will also fall. Therefore, it seems to me that the value will fall at all. So the price of the land will be lower, and the farmers who want to buy it will be happy with it, but the value of their farms will fall sharply in general. I mean, this total value is going to go down. And in the city... Isn't there going to be a situation in the city where the price of land in the city is going to rise, which is also the price of housing? Isn't the Minister afraid of that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u335	I'm not afraid. [[Okay.]] I want to answer again, Mr. Marshal and Mr. Senators. In Poland there are 14 million 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land. There's 1 million 400,000 ha in the stock. Over 80% is in private trade. And in private, there is no way that supply and demand are falling. Please note the figures I give: 14 million 700 000 hectares of agricultural land, of which 1 million 400 000 hectares are resources. And that is why I am saying that I am not afraid that these changes will affect, as some say, the drastic price of agricultural land. 'Cause what kind of... It's a beam, and the ground... But let's not have this argument, because here the financiers would be... [[I understand, I understand, but for me...]] Here's an example...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u336	And isn't it that this law restricts the marketing of land for people outside of agriculture? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Yes, yes...]] So the cities aren't gonna buy land?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u337	Yeah, yeah. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Yes, but we're not hiding it, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u338	Okay, so I was just saying... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Yes, I understand.]] And that's what I asked you. I'm not just talking about agency land. Yes? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u339	Minister, I'm gonna get away from the issue of price, demand and supply. I would like to ask you something that probably did not fall during today's discussion, namely the compilation of the draft law with EU law. If you could hear from the Minister what your assessment is... I have here the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, which does not state clearly... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Yes, exactly.]] Well, let's just say he's making some kind of doubt. I would like to ask the Minister what the Minister, as one of the creators of the law, said about the failure to test the proportionality of this law. Is there a danger, as far as the Treaty is concerned, of this right that we are creating, or is it not entirely such a threat in the opinion of the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u340	The government believes that there is no such threat. If I remember correctly, it's quite detailed in the explanatory statement. I think it's about art. 65 constitutions... Maybe not this one, but it would be somewhere around here. So this is described in the explanatory memorandum. We're showing you how... We're not violating the Constitution or the treaty. We also have an opinion. Okay, I'll say it again. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to which the contested law is not contrary to European Union law. I'm sorry it's so short, but... And that's where I'm gonna end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u341	You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u342	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, just one sentence to what you said. If the Minister thinks it's appropriate to comment on this, you're welcome. I'm talking about those opinions I have, and I only have one positive one. The second positive opinion, of course, is the government, but it's hard to imagine the government... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Well, well.]] ...had a negative opinion about his bill, Minister. We're both logical, so... I accept that it is obvious. As far as opinions are concerned, most of those I have before me here do not say in a clear way that this law is completely wrong, but it contains various kinds of doubts, whether it is EU law or the Constitution. I would like to hear from you whether the Minister knows these opinions and whether he himself has any doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u343	Mr. Senator, we're both politicians, we're both lawmakers or we're working on the law. Am I not having second thoughts? I'm not talking about this bill. I think Senator Borowski said we're making laws. He spoke of them in the plural, referring not only to this law. Doubts always arise, and at every stage, if they don't appear... I do not know whether we will ever be able to establish a law in the Republic of Poland or anywhere else in the world, which will provide for absolutely all cases which can only occur in our lives. I know these opinions because representatives of the Helsinki Foundation came to committee meetings and to the Sejm, and to the Senate. They were at a meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Agriculture Committee and presented their opinions, so I know them. And I share your view that it was not clear and clear that this is contrary to this, to this, to this and to this. It wasn't like that, rather something was questioned. Today I have no such strong doubts, but I repeat once again: this is not the first and not the last law that we will discuss and the case of which there are doubts. Today, however, we stand in the position that this law fulfils the standards in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and EU law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u344	Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I, too, thank you, Mr Marshal, as well as the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, for a really thorough discussion. As soon as this is over, it will turn out in the votes. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.]] Good. I'd like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to grant... What? Question... [[Voice from the room: Discussion.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by the senators: Przemysław Terminski, Leszek Czarnobaj and Bogdan Borusewicz. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, this discussion is just beginning. There is a procedure in the Senate that so far there have been answers to questions, and now we are starting a discussion. I agree with the Minister in part, of course, but I largely disagree, especially as regards matters relating to the value of real estate, with valuation. As a property valuer, I have certainly valued several hundred or maybe several thousand properties, including farms, and I know what the situation is about the value of real estate in rural areas. But it's a broad discussion, and I don't want to reopen it, because it would take too long. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the proposed change is to protect Polish land from uncontrolled buy-out by foreigners and also by Polish citizens, as well as from excessive concentration of land. This is also important: excessive concentration. May 1 ends with a 12-year protection period for the purchase of land by foreigners, we all know that. That's why we're sitting today. Today, it is important to ask ourselves whether the necessary changes proposed by the government are going in the right direction, whether they safeguard the interests of Polish farmers and whether they are too strict for themselves. And when I asked you a question, I gave you an example that, in order to limit the number of accidents, we could put a speed limit of 30 km/h and probably there will be fewer deaths. Just, ladies and gentlemen, is this the way to solve the problem? I think we're going way too far here. The name of the contested law can be very confusing, as the greatest consequences for the citizens of the Republic of Poland will be covered by the proposed amendment of the Act of 11 April 2003 on the shaping of the agricultural system. The definitions contained in the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system will make the vast majority of the property in Poland considered agricultural property within the meaning of the Act, because... This was already quoted today, but I quote again: Whenever the Act refers to agricultural property, it is to be understood as agricultural property within the meaning of the Civil Code, excluding property located in areas designated in land-use plans for purposes other than agricultural purposes. So there's an exemption here for the zoning plan. Further: Whenever the law refers to an agricultural holding, it must be understood as an agricultural holding within the meaning of the Civil Code in which the area of agricultural property is not less than 1 ha. And also: agricultural real estate (agricultural land) are real estate which is or can be used to carry out agricultural production activities in the field of plant and animal production, including gardening, fruiting and fish production. The compilation of these definitions poses a significant risk not only to trade generally considered as agricultural turnover but also to trade in real estate which, in general sense, are not regarded as agricultural real estate. In general: there is no plan We have an agricultural property. If you compile the records according to which agricultural real estate is used or may be used for production, for agricultural production activities, except for those intended in the local development plan for other purposes, you will find that, in the absence of a local spatial planning plan, virtually most of the real estate, often also those in cities, will be considered as agricultural real estate. And their buyer can only be an individual farmer within the meaning of the Act. In addition, there are no legal documents of the type which would give rise to doubts as to the qualification of real estate: agricultural or other purpose. Sometimes the data contained in the land register is indicated as the basis for determining the destination, but the definition in the Civil Code, unlike the definition in the Agricultural Tax Act, does not refer to the data from the land register, and this may result in an undesirable state of legal uncertainty. In the current situation, however, many citizens may be surprised to know that they own agricultural property and therefore have a rigid corset of restrictions on the disposal of their property. The legislator seems to have noticed this problem and in terms of the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury introduces an exemption from the prohibition of disposal in such a way that the provision of the article. 1 does not apply to the sale of real estate and parts of real estate intended for the sale of real estate, and here we have listed The local spatial planning plan, the study of the conditions and directions of spatial planning of the municipality or the final decision on the conditions of construction and land development for non-agricultural purposes, in particular industrial parks, business and logistics centres, warehouses, etc., I could exchange further. Also with regard to real estate located within the limits of special economic zones, we have an exemption. This exemption also applies to houses or dwellings, economic buildings and garages, together with the necessary land and gardens or agricultural property with an area of up to 2 hectares. Thus, despite the declared ban on the disposal of real estate, there will be a significant breach from this principle, which citizens will no longer have in respect of their property. The interest of the Treasury is secured, but the same law forgets the legitimate protection of the interests of citizens. Therefore, if the owner does not have the freedom to decide on the sale of the property, including the pricing and choice of the counterparty, then there is a restriction on ownership. We have limited property rights in some way. Moreover, by drastically limiting the number of potential buyers to individual farmers within the meaning of the Act, certain real estate may actually become inalienable due to the lack of willingness to purchase them. It seems that, given the historical circumstances, the legislator should be very careful about these matters, following certain principles. After all, as far as property is concerned, farmers in Poland are used to having land on their property. The Minister said that the Agricultural Property Agency wants to lease for these 5 years, but peasants in Poland generally feel better if they own and manage on their own. A similar situation is being faced in the case of the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system. In order to eliminate a real but limited phenomenon, very drastic solutions are introduced, which will certainly reduce this problem, but at the same time will create different problems and dissatisfaction for farmers. The solution to the problem could be the introduction of an exemption from the application of the Article. 2a of the Act providing that the purchaser of agricultural property may be an individual farmer only, unless the Act provides otherwise, to the same extent as Article. 2 Act on Stopping Sale of Property of Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. I'm not gonna say it again, it's about individual farmers as well. The local development plan, so far, but also the study of conditions and directions of development, the final decision on construction conditions, real estate located within the limits of special economic zones, etc... I will not repeat myself. In order to avoid abuse in this respect, the principles of pre-emption and repurchase rights by the real estate agency should be left to date. As a result of the proposed provisions, the Agricultural Property Agency would have the full opportunity to take care of the objectives set out, as it would not be possible to purchase agricultural real estate by way of an agreement, within the meaning of the Act, without the knowledge and capabilities of the Agricultural Real Estate Agency. At the same time, real estate which is considered by citizens to be non-agricultural property would be transferable, subject to the right of first purchase or repurchase by the agency, i.e. less restrictive property rights. Typical agricultural turnover, e.g. real estate in excess of 1 ha, would remain reserved for individual farmers. It seems that such a solution would safeguard against part of the negative effects of the proposed law and at the same time enable the objectives to be met. In addition, it should be noted that in accordance with the basic law of the economy, the reduction in demand results in a decrease in the market price. Due to the sharp reduction of potential buyers, demand is inevitable and thus The decline in agricultural real estate prices. This could lead to a trap of debt and credit burden on farmers who in previous years purchased agricultural property using bank credit. The situation may be similar to what we saw in the case of franc loans, except that the facts would be different. As long as we have no influence in Poland on the decisions of the Swiss Central Bank and it is difficult for someone to blame for these decisions, in the event of excessive restrictions on trade in agricultural property, our legislator will reduce the value of these properties and farmers will be able to resent and blame the government, and to us, senators and Members. In addition, concerns are raised by a wide range of discretionary decisions by the authorities, the possibility of issuing which the amendment introduces. These decisions will be based on imprecise criteria and will raise concerns and concerns about the fairness of this process. The more imprecise criteria and discretionary decisions... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Mr. Senator, it's been 12 minutes.]] ...the greater the temptation to act... Yes? I'm almost done, just a second. The Act also raises important doubts about the compatibility with the Constitution and EU law, as has already been mentioned here. It should also be noted that the condition of Polish agriculture is constantly improving. I think that what the Minister said about the expansion of farms, about concentration, it all takes place over the years, the structure is still somewhat improved and the question arises as to whether we need such far-reaching regulations today. I'll finish the second part and make an amendment. I'm sorry, but I didn't make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u346	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Minister and the Deputy Minister for their calm, substantive answers to our questions in the debate. It is a very important law, it is a system act, concerning agriculture. Not only agricultural land and not only agencies, but it is a system law for agriculture at all. We have already discussed what it looks like from the farmers' point of view. What does she look like from an average Pole's point of view? Because the law introduces restrictions on land circulation for about 32 million Poles. 6 million will be able to participate in this trade. These are people who can be classified as farmers or families of farmers. About 32 million Poles are deprived of this possibility, even by having a farm, living in it and running it for 5 years. So 32 million are deprived of this right to trade. So we create two groups of Poles. One group had certain rights and those rights are preserved. The second group is deprived of these rights. So it is clear to me that this is a law contrary to the article. 33 the Constitution, which talks about equality between all citizens and the fact that all citizens have equal rights in family, political, social and economic life. Because land trading and holding of an agricultural holding are part of the economic law. Why will the inhabitants of the cities not be able to acquire the land so far? Why would they be excluded from this? Because saying that they can acquire, but they have to meet certain conditions... Well, five years you have to run a farm... There have been no such conditions so far. This is the introduction of inequality and this is contrary to Article. 33 constitutions. Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 says that such restrictions can be introduced in an emergency situation, but in my opinion there is no such an emergency situation. It also infringes the principle of property protection and the right to inheritance, which is contrary to Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution, which protects property rights and guarantees the right of inheritance. The right to inherit is limited here, because it is limited only to the immediate, preliminary and family. To date, it is possible to inherit. A foreigner could also inherit. So this is a serious violation of ownership and inheritance. It's also a violation of the article. 64, which says: everyone has the right to property and other property rights and the right to inherit. In addition, this law infringes paragraph 12 of Annex XII. Point 4 (2) of the Accession Treaty. You have somehow avoided this principle, which Poland adopted at the time of the signing of the accession treaty. And what does point 2 of paragraph 2 say? 4 Annex XII to the Accession Treaty? It states that under no circumstances may nationals of Member States or legal persons established in accordance with the laws of another Member State be treated less favourably in the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property than on the date of signature of the Accession Treaty. I understand that the justification is that it is only a change of law which was in force before the Treaty, but in my opinion it is a clear violation of this annex. The citizens of other countries will be treated differently when the purchase ban no longer applies, and it is very possible that the European Union will ask for its own citizens. And who will claim the citizens of Poland, those who have been deprived of the ability to acquire, buy, move? What about a change of profession? After all, you have to become a farmer. You don't just have to move out of town into the country, you have to become a farmer, you have to follow these rules, you have to be a farmer for five years, right? Well, it's a terrible situation, it's two... A large group of Polish citizens are discriminated against and the accession treaty is violated. This means that the law should be addressed to the Constitutional Court and should be addressed to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg. So that this will be the continuation of this bill. And what else does this bill carry, what dangers? We don't know exactly. It is so complicated matter that I, listening and reading, preparing for this discussion, do not know exactly what the consequences will be. Well, the consequences, in my opinion, will be that in the countryside the value of land will fall, so the value of farms will fall. That will be the consequence. Well, that's the rule: when demand is limited and supply is limited, the value must fall. And in the city the value of the land will increase, therefore the prices of real estate, the housing will go up, will be more expensive. That may be the consequence of this bill. I know the legislators may not have assumed it, because if they do, it's gonna be terrible. But I see such danger. But economic laws are absolute, as are the laws of physics. I repeat, they are ruthless. Therefore, I think that this law is not good, that we had to work on this law longer, that the previous law protected the interests of Polish farmers. And I asked how much exactly... [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'm almost done. ...there were cases of illegal acquisition of land by foreigners. Well, there's a gray area, isn't there? How many of these cases, how many cases did the D.A.'s office run, how many did the police drive? What is the information of our services? After all, there are authorities involved in this type of crime, and they did not have to answer questions from now on, what were the cases and what is the scale. Well, I have the impression that with some vague situation that we do not know much or know nothing about, we are doing a bill that can shake the agricultural system seriously and shake Poland seriously. 'Cause if the price of land goes down in the country and the city goes up, it's gonna be a problem. I therefore request that this law be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u348	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Błaszczyk will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u349	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Marshal's words are disturbing that he already wants to complain to the European Union and that he has made such a request... [[It's normal...]] Ladies and gentlemen, during that term, we worked on the Law of the governing coalition. This coalition had a lot of time to prepare its bill well, but I say that this law, adopted today and supported by the Government of Law and Justice, is much better. Mr. Marshal said that maybe longer... Well, we didn't have that much time, the government didn't have that much time, and we as parliamentarians didn't have enough time to work on this bill any longer. I would like to thank the Minister for that time, because in fact this bill passed in peace... A lot of comments and farmers and parliamentarians have been taken into account, including in the Senate this week, which has been shifted by your marshal, and hearing our comments by the Ministry It was very valuable. I, with a group of senators, have tabled an amendment. The Ministry's initial acceptance is to exclude land with an area of up to 0,3 ha from this law. There were proposals for bigger... But that's the minimum we've managed to get. That record hasn't been recorded so far. Mr. Marshal mentioned that this bill is groundbreaking, and we feel it, too. We feel the duty that we have, because I think it will be the most important law for us, for those who work in agriculture, who work in the agricultural committee in this term. There are announcements of the Ministry. And we also want to work on it, as it were, to change other laws around this law. There is also an announcement that in the future this law will have any problems with it. We will improve, we will watch how these solutions work. Mr. Marshal, I think you represent the Civic Platform Club, too. I'm asking you as a farmer... Mr Marshal presented here arguments concerning people, Poles, but we connected with agriculture have some experience, we know how it works. I have a farm in town, too, and I know what a mess it is. In fact, this farm runs through this disorder, dividing parcels, buying parcels by people from the city. I'm having a hard time producing. Production in this area has been limited, because these people, knowing that agricultural production takes place in this area, buy parcels, build, and then, when they live, all that is related to agriculture is bothering them; and really 1 or 2 people can block a really big agricultural activity, also a large area of agricultural activity. To conclude, on behalf of the Senators' Group, I am making this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, especially since you've stuck to the time limit. Senator Żaryn, you're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, may I speak on a formal matter?]] Yes, please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u351	I didn't speak for the club. I was going to say that there's no rule in the Senate's Rules of Procedure to speak on behalf of the club. [[That's good, but your marshal's position at the club is good.]] I understand, but I want to be clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u352	Thank you for that information. Senator Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have also tabled an amendment to this law, which we are proceeding, a very important law. As for the intention of the authors of this law, I have no doubt. First of all, it is about securing Polish interests, so that this land is protected from the possibility of being bought by foreigners, speculators, all those who could abuse the freedoms of our European civilization, to use them for evil purposes. At the same time, I would like to point out very clearly a certain imperfection of this law, which is on the one hand imperfect, one can say, on the total margin of this law, because the introduction of my amendment, in my opinion, does not destroy the whole spirit, the whole letter of the law, anything that is most important in it, and on the other hand is not marginal, and this amendment which I am making is also non-marginal, because it concerns the fundamental principle, namely the principle of respect for property. It is the principle of respect for property towards the environment, which was deprived of this property and was deprived of it in times of totalitarianism, first German, then communist, and is about reprivatization. As you know, reprivatization in Poland is one of the on-call topics that have been appearing cyclically in the public debate for twenty or more years, more or less political, press, publicist, and are coming back to this topic cyclically, among others. because we are the only country which, after regaining independence, after 1989, could not properly respond to this heritage of totalitarianisms of German and Soviet or communist, and especially communist, because the issue mainly concerns the decree of 6 September 1944 about the so-called. agricultural reform. But I am talking about these 2 totalitarians, because the looting of land estates began in the autumn of 1939, that is, from the moment when, with lands attached to the Third Reich, the Polish landowners, because they were one of the main groups of intelligent elites of that region, were driven away. They were driven away already in the autumn of 1939 and could no longer return to their estates after 1945, by various laws, because also by the law even more shameful, one can say, than the agricultural reform of 6 September 1944, because by the law on abandoned and German property, i.e. only because it was the Germans who stole and took over this property for the years 1939 and 1945 or 1940 and 1945. Of course, the very decree on agricultural reform of 6 September 1944 in its contents drove us away from European civilization and from the value we call private property, but - As we all know. Not so much the letter of that decree was shameful, but above all the practice, the execution of that decree, which was not in any way compatible with the letter of law. Its implementation was de facto carried out by the NKVD units or the Security Office, which were once again expelling landowners from this area, which was part of the former General Government under German occupation, and there was a clear operation of revolutionary disposal of the owners of these properties, including courts, palaces. Some of these landowners, as in the case of the family of Radziwiłłł and Branicki, were found in faraway Siberia, and some were harmed in this way that they were not allowed to take even a teaspoon or the most important personal items for them, not to mention the possibility of preserving the entire court or land. It was a disgraceful part of this history of Europe. Therefore, It is more sad that, after 27 years, we must return to the debate on reprivatisation. As I mentioned, although I did not finish this thought, we are the only state after 1989 which regained independence and which this reprivatization reform, reprivatization law, reprivatization law Whatever we call it. It didn't, it didn't. As long as there is no reprivatization law in Poland, we will analyse it for so long. At least those who treat their property unconfirmed as holiness, but they will recognize it as actually sanctity And we'll get back to that. Today I am returning to this topic, specifically to a recipe which is the only, although imperfectly, dwarfly, in a way which I'm sure defy the entire principle of reprivatization... There was a provision, although in such an imperfect form, which demonstrated that the Polish state in a longer or closer time horizon sees reprivatization as its historical commitment, a commitment to those who were wronged, robbed in a very brutal way, and were part of a social group that very strongly and positively entered into Polish history. This isn't the time and place for me to talk about the history of the landlord, although as a historian I'm talking about it. I was. Or maybe it's because I've been dealing with this subject, it would be better if I didn't talk about it today because I don't have much time. The fact is, the recipe was imperfect, dwarf, but it was. And he was talking about the right of priority to acquire land property for the owners of former or the heirs of the courts. The right to buy was, of course, the property at the disposal of the real estate agency. As it still remains, in this bill that we are proceeding today, also... I'm making an amendment that says it's the right to give priority to the acquisition of real estate. The legal design is arranged today. The Act, which we will abolish, means, in short, the Act, PSL-owska of 2015, repealed the right of the original purchase and at the same time left the possibility of this right, i.e. the exercise of this right, until 1 May 2016. Therefore, if we do not include this amendment, this will automatically end the 2015 Act by silence. Of course, this does not mean that, as senators, we are not aware that even by silence something is happening, we make decisions. Therefore, in order to make this decision consciously, I ask you to accept this amendment, an amendment which restores the right to acquire property first to the owners of the property and their legal heirs. Because I also heard voices that everyone would be able, so to speak, to cling to the phenomenon of inheritance and to manipulate it. It is, of course, only about the legal status of the court, in which the heirs of the courts were declared to be the same and, therefore, in accordance with Polish law, have the right to such a claim. Of course, the above-mentioned right of priority for the acquisition of real estate, as I said, is definitely imperfect law. And I realize, Minister, that it can cause pathology. This is all the more encouraging, for all of us, that the reprivatization law should be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. Because that's when we're gonna say goodbye to that imperfect recipe. However, if we do not introduce it, we will send a clear signal to the public. Even if you consider that the public is not interested in various matters, I will insist that there is a public opinion in Poland. And in this case, we're going to give her a very bad example. In addition to the Law and Justice, I stress: The Law and Justice will send a signal that we are not in favour of property rights. And that, in my opinion, must not be allowed. As I understand it, post-communa communist formations can afford such a thing. We are so excited today, I hope, that the Civic Platform as well as the Law and Justice That there are no communists in Parliament. And in order for there to be no Communists, I would very much like to ask the honourable Members to accept this amendment. Or else someone will tell us, or maybe the communists are? [[But they're banged up.]] Yeah, that's right. I would prefer never in my life to receive such stigmata that I was, am, or will I be a communist, to any extent of this concept. Therefore, I would very, very much ask you to accept this amendment. She was written here, it's signed by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and by me. We're senators who are filing for its adoption. It sounds very bizarre: in the article. 6 in point 8, points (a) and (b) are deleted. Take my word for it, what I've been saying for ten minutes could be contained in such a short record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u354	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much for this amendment. Senator Jackowski will speak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking the government for preparing the bill under consideration here, which is undoubtedly very necessary. This law is done in a bit of a hurry, but this is due to the negligence that has taken place in recent years. We would probably not have to adopt this law today if the issues of land trading, securing or eliminating the possibility of speculative redemption of Polish land were dealt with properly at the time when Poland entered the European Union. It will be 1 May in a moment, and it is the twelfth year of our presence in the European Union. If we had previously written down the appropriate arrangements for land trading and provided confirmation of these principles in the accession treaties, there would be no legal situation in which we are now. And that is why I would like to thank Minister Zbigniew Babalski for his efforts in this bill. This is not an easy bill. This is a very difficult, insanely difficult law, which was born as a result of a large public consultation, a law which has deviated from its original form, because a lot of amendments were made at the stage of work in the Seym. At the moment, we hear there's gonna be further adjustments. Some will probably be adopted, so the shape in which this law will come out of parliament will simply show that the government is open to discussion, takes various arguments and takes into account the circumstances that arise in the course of the work. High Izbo, of course, I'm joining the amendment that you made to Senator Żaryn. I believe that the issue of reprivatisation is the Achilles' heel after 1989. Unfortunately, this was not done in the process of these transformations. Let me remind you that the law that was adopted in Latvia concerned the resolution of property matters. At the moment, Latvia and other countries that have already resolved these issues are in a completely different situation. Unfortunately, the next governments of the Republic have not taken up this challenge. We were closest to the time of AWS when the reprivatization law was even passed. Whether she was good or not... This was the most advanced legislative process discussed. As you know, as a result of President Alexander Kwasniewski's veto, this law did not enter into force, and therefore it is as it is. I join this amendment for the simple reason that the right of priority of acquisition for so-called. former owners I stress the so-called 'cause this is a very contractual formula 'cause it was some form of compensation that the Constitutional Tribunal granted in its 1999 ruling. To be precise, I would like to add that this possibility is being abolished by the law, of course, not the one that we are currently looking at, and I would like to make this clear. It was adopted in the Sejm and Parliament of the previous term of office, so-called. PSL-owska law; maybe this way. In my deep opinion, this law is of course much better and corrects the number of errors that were in the 2015 Act, the Act which was repealed or whose execution was suspended. We have this new bill right now. I would like to ask the High House to consider supporting this amendment because it seems to me that the arguments used by Senator Żaryn are very well founded. I would also like to emphasise I don't want to assume that I have any legal interests. That I have no legal interest in accepting or not accepting this amendment. Well, I declare that I have no legal interest. However, I believe that this solution was flawed, but it was, it was fixed at the moment. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that if this amendment had not been accepted, then... as far as I know, the government is working on a solid, large law on shaping the agricultural system, at least that's what the announcements are. I think it'll be an opportunity too... The Minister has declared that it will be monitored on an ongoing basis how this law will work in practice. This is a particularly sensitive area of economic circulation. It concerns not only the agricultural environment, but the economy as a whole. Because it is a matter of fundamental importance for the functioning of the economy as a whole. This law must therefore be particularly monitored. However, if it turned out that the concerns I had allowed myself to express by asking the Minister, among others. for this amendment concerning religious unions... I did not mean the Catholic Church, but in one sense there are churches and religious unions. However, there is such a liberal possibility of relatively easy registration of such a relationship, and this can, unfortunately, lead to temptation in the case of someone to take a shortcut. And that's where I'd ask the government... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator...]] [[Voice from the hall: Minister needs to listen.]] And here I would put on the hand of the Minister a request to the government to monitor this issue in particular, because it also raises social emotions for other reasons, it creates emotions not only for reasons, let's call it substantive. So it's just worth looking into. Absolutely do not take these words from me in such a way that it is directed against any church or religious union which currently legally exists in Poland. I am talking here about the hypothetical possibility of relatively easy registration in Polish law of a religious union, which could possibly encourage such activities. High Izbo, I would say this: the bill is necessary, the bill is very important, but she will undoubtedly continue to raise discussions. This law concerns a very sensitive area of our reality, I would say, because it concerns the whole of economic life, also in the context of government announcements concerning cheap construction, available to less wealthy or medium-earning citizens; this is what Minister Adamczyk is working on. So this is a very important area of our reality. And I welcome the Minister's announcement that the government will listen to these voices and monitor the operation of this law on an ongoing basis. I think that in the course of the debate, Minister, there will also be various other specific issues. It is an infamous issue of agricultural land in cities, there are many other areas that arouse emotions, provoke questions and discussions. And I think it's worth taking care of here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u356	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czarnobaj, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u357	Because of my medical condition, I need to get ready for a little... [[Voice from the room: How about from the spot?]] No, no, no, I can do it, it's just gonna dry up in my throat sometimes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few sentences. I think that many aspects are being addressed both in this rich debate, which has turned at the question stage and now, already in the discussion itself. I'd like to highlight a few more things. I will refer, first of all, to what the bill itself brings, this is the first thing. Secondly, it is about what the subject matter of this law is written by various authorities and what results from the opinions in which we are held, as well as what conclusions are drawn from the discussions, from the questions that were raised during today's proceedings and from the speeches that have been made so far, ladies and gentlemen. Two words explaining what Senator Jackowski said. Mr. Senator, about the delay issue, I understand. That's right. Since we entered the European Union, the best time was in 2005-2007. It was the best time to introduce... [[Before the accession. I meant it clearly...]] Mr. Senator, it's okay. In any event, if not in 2004 or 2003, it was certainly a good time to introduce these rules in 2005 or 2007. I would like to say that the Germans introduced these rules in 1961, and therefore there was a model of conduct. I understand that what was German may not have been very agreeable to certain analyses, but other countries also had similar elements concerning protection or concentration and protection of family farms. Because I understand that these actions which the government takes, and which here and the Minister and the Deputy Minister presented as a draft of this law, are aimed at the main element. I agree with him personally, and in a moment I'll talk about doubts. Namely, what concerns the strengthening of the family farm, what Minister Babalski said, that the land is above all a very important element for each country, which should serve agricultural production. In general, without getting into the details Which should not be covered by speculative activities and others we have had and what we have... Of course, I'm signing off on it. I just want to give you the statistics: less than 1%. the land is the number of hectares in the hands of foreigners. Of course, this is official data. From the unofficials I obtained, meeting in Powiśle and Żuławy... I would like to say to the Minister that, of course, the opinion of the trade union of individual farmers and chambers that support the whole idea... I want to say something not as a reservation, but as an observation, Minister, from this debate. Well, in this debate, in which the whole thing went into it, you can say, galimatias of all kinds of laws and interpretations... I have to say that at the end of this meeting, which usually lasted two to three hours, I did not know why A bit in defence of this law, of course, in order to seek an opinion. When it came to details, it turned out that farmers had more and more doubts. Because farmers receive the following clear signal: here the government has submitted a law to protect Poland from the influx of foreign capital. That is the general message when talking to farmers individually. And the moment we're discussing the details, the records and the doubts that were raised during this debate... Sorry, during the questions raised by the senators from both the Law and Justice and the Civic Platform... These are doubts that are also in the hearts and minds of the farmers. It's always at the end of a meeting like this. That's why I'd encourage... Because if I know life, the bill will pass. But I would encourage you to make a certain résumé about the functioning of this law soon and try to answer the question of what is right and what is wrong. That, I think, would be positive. As far as comments are concerned, I would like to say yes. We assume that the law is supposed to protect Polish land, and the Minister said it, against the influx of foreign capital. Whether she protects them or doesn't protect them can be discussed. But what would we expect after every bill? To ensure that what concerns the role of the Agency is clearly recorded and that the criteria for decision-making are unambiguous. It should be noted that the country's dominant role is increasing in the draft law. And what's the difference between what's been going on so far and what's in the bill? In a situation where 80% The land is in private hands, as the Minister said, of course the dominant role of the state should not take place. In this bill he has. So we are going in such a direction that an institution acting on behalf of the Polish State will be an agency which will take certain decisions in a kind or bad way. But we do not know these decisions, they are not written as guidelines in the draft of this law. At the same time, I would like to say on the example of 3 countries, namely Hungary, Germany and France, because of course each of these countries has these matters regulated. What are the fundamental differences, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, I won't go into details and little things, because they can always be different. But the general difference is this, ladies and gentlemen. Hungarians... I understand that this country is particularly close... One of the leading politicians of the state said: soon we will have Budapest in Warsaw. So I'm going to tell you how people in Hungary who are close to you do it. In Hungary, national entities, natural persons and citizens of the European Union are entitled to acquire land... See, they did not disable the Germans or the French, or the Dutch... [[Or Poles.]] Neither do Poles. ...Churches I mean, it's just like us. Financial institutions subject to the pledges law, local governments and, of course, the Earth's National Fund. Germany, on the other hand... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Neither do we.]] Minister, when I get there, I'll be right back. Germany, of course, also has a policy to strengthen family farms and, what is important, to ensure that what is related to activity on the ground is as cost-effective as possible. I mean, not to lead to fragmentation, bad divisional decisions and other things like that. And they're countering speculation. I agree, actually I agree with the position as I sensed, Minister, not because, Minister, we are both good bridgers among politicians, but because I believe that too much increase in the prices of the land, in terms of agriculture, is not a positive element. 'Cause if you buy land, let's just say, if you're looking at 100,000 for 1 ha, you get 2,000 revenue, that's 50 years in the case of a return rate. Well, here's the thing. Not really... As a result, I believe that what is happening with regard to the rise in prices on land is not a positive phenomenon. Of course, it has other good elements concerning value, possibilities for borrowing loans, liabilities, pledges, etc. But what did the Germans do? Germany has also specified in the Act 4 cases where no authorisation is granted. It's clearly written, just like the Germans do. Here, you put a necklace on it. Are you? You can buy it. You don't fit? Thank you very much. And now the French have also developed four rules to determine when land must not be bought and sold, they have developed criteria to be met. And the SAFR agency... I think that's what this French agency is called... [[SAFER.]] Safer, that's what a fellow senator familiar with this organization suggests. And this agency also has strict procedures and indicated assumptions, which are followed in the decision-making process. What are we proposing in our bill, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen? As I said, the great strengthening of the role of the state Okay, but through an agency that has not been assigned clear decision-making criteria. That's one thing. It'll be in the regulation. As the Minister said nicely Mr. Minister, I've written this down and I'm going to quote it a lot. If something is not written in the bill or is subject to some discussion, then everything can be determined in Poland. After all, we know these findings made since 25 October in many areas, we determine them in the field of police activity, special services, the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Mr. Senator, you don't crumble.]] Mr. Senator, I know that the truth... [[Arabs...]] Arabs. I know the truth hurts, but sometimes you have to listen to it. That is why I would prefer to see clear and legible records in this law, what is this, what instruments we are strengthening the family farm, what criteria the president of the agency is guided by. After all, when the President of the Agency has certain powers and competences without clear criteria, we know what he will be guided by. It's such a thing not to do so, Minister. In this area, I have to use an example. That we wanted well, and it turned out like in Janów that the stud was falling. [[That's good!]] [[Applause]] I just want to avoid the kind of political situation that will later result in us wanting well, but some bad contractor from the agency did what he did. Minister, please understand, I am saying this not because I am completely against this bill. The point is that in these questions were marked our doubts about certain records which are ambiguous or ambiguous, which give great interpretation possibilities and so on... But I accept for a good coin, Minister, that under Polish conditions it can be established. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words now. I don't know how much more time I have. ..about the resulting aspect... [[In fact, you don't have time anymore, Senator.]] [[He's got five more minutes.]] Maybe five minutes... maybe three minutes, Mr. Marshal, due to the state of health... [[Yes?]] [[Let him talk.]] I'll try to say two words quickly. [[Please. But it's already in the second performance.]] Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. After that, I'm sure I won't speak again. The Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. I asked the Minister and the Minister replied that he had read this opinion, took it into consideration in his deliberations and decision-making. I would like to tell you that the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights writes that it hopes that the comments made by it will contribute to the development by the High House of legislative changes that will meet the standards expressed in the Constitution and other legal acts of international law. So, as we go by logical thinking, it can be said that in many aspects the bill is at least questionable when it comes to specific provisions. The Foundation points out other doubts as well. This is the matter of respect for property, that is, the largest, one of the most valuable elements, which is private property. The authors say that the bill creates a so-called appearance of ownership, and such an element of writing is unacceptable. Of course, the constitution, as well as the provisions of international law, are talking about restricting ownership, only the principle of proportionality is very important here and in this assessment this principle of proportionality has been exceeded. Like I said, those countries I mentioned... This is the case in all countries, and the most stringent are the Swedish and Danish records, as I recall. And also in this context, attention is paid to the question of proportionality, so as not to interfere too much in private property, not as much as it is in that bill. It is also said that there are no criteria for exercising the right of first purchase. So there's a great deal of discretion. And the Legislative Board says that there are no criteria and that property will be purchased with adequate payment. So 2 farmers will get along, they will set the price of 80,000, but the agency as part of the fact that it is possible to get along well in Poland will say: no, we are sorry, we are buying and here we have to pay 40 thousand. And this is going to be the appropriate payment, because the authors think that there are corruption mechanisms here that are worth considering. Just a few more last sentences. The Attorney General draws attention to the following provisions: the Minister may express for socio-economic reasons... Well, we know what you do in Poland, in the world too, for important reasons, for important social reasons... And in the article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 still uses the concept of good faith. So we say this: great discretion, a great role of the state, based on socio-economic considerations, within the framework of good faith and the fact that in Poland everything can be dealt with. And this gives a picture of the bill, which should be a good and unambiguous project! Besides, I think the idea of the project is very good, but, as usual, we wanted it well, and it worked out just fine. [[And it came out the way it always was.]] And the last sentence, if you'll excuse me. It's a question of religious relationships. Well, here's what I think: there's almost 160 religious relationships, and we know what the potential threat is. Because it's a threat, and we don't have to charm ourselves here that it's not a threat. As a summary, I want to conclude and keep my word to Mr. Marshal, so to speak: from the four meetings I've held... Because I'm not a professional in agriculture, but me and my family, like most of them, come from the village, so the subject is close to my heart, and now it's getting close to my mind. And what I'm trying to say here is that when after the meeting in Żuławy... Because the minister said he'd be very happy to meet with farmers who don't think so. But it would be easier. And I'm already sending an invitation to the Minister today, but any Member or Senator of Law and Justice in Pomerania can do that, I'll just join you. Bring the Minister there or the Minister will come and listen to these opinions, not only those who praise the bill, but also those who have a slightly different opinion. Because it's worth listening to sometimes. Well, one of the farmers ended up saying... He addressed it to me, but I was just passing it on, saying I'm not the author of this bill. At least I think she's needed. With regard to this draft law, which strengthens the role of the State so much, in such an illegible way gives the agency enormous powers, so illegiblely refers to private property and, as I said, there is no proportionate respect for private property, the farmer said this: adopt mandatory deliveries yet, and we will have a PRL bis! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u358	Thank you very much, Senator. [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In corrigendum mode I would like to state and remind you, and this can be verified in the transcript from my speech, that I spoke very clearly about the pre-accession period. And I said that if at that time, when Poland was negotiating the terms of participation in the European Union, there was an appropriate law that would lay down regulations in this regard, and this would be confirmed in the negotiations of the Treaty on our membership, today we would not have the situation that we have with this law. That's all. Senator Czarnobaj, with his charm, began to tell me that I said that the government should adopt such a law in 2005 and 2007. This is a completely different legal situation, a completely different treaty situation, Mr Senator, and I would like to explain it very thoroughly and say that unfortunately we are paying in some political or economic areas for mistakes made in the accession and pre-accession process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u360	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Kleina to speak. [[He went to Kaszuby.]] [[There's no...]] There's no senator. Please take the floor of Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u361	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Gentlemen of Ministers! My previous speakers said I am referring here to Mr. Czarnobaj's words. That this law is, of course, necessary. The fact is, she's too late, it's true, it would be very good if she were earlier. But it is appropriate to thank the Minister for this bill, because of course it is necessary. It is a law that regulates property. Let us also remember that the area, the territory, the earth is something that cannot be produced, it is not a product. This is something that needs to be protected and this bill protects it. I would also like to thank you for the comments made by one of the gentlemen regarding the Jans. Minister, I also thank you for these changes in Polish Arabian horse studs, it is a great courage and I really face these changes that you have proposed before the advice you are calling. It must also be said, Ladies and gentlemen, that we talk about this very often, not knowing as if until the end of the law, because the senators' statements show that this knowledge is not very good. This law really has very great possibilities, it is not that it is automatically inhibited by rotation of the earth. All you have to do is talk to a legislator who is very, very positive about this law. It is certainly possible for the good of our country. Allow me, Mr. Marshal, to report five amendments on behalf of myself and the senators. I'd like them to be processed. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u362	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! It is usually the case that the draft law, which is introduced to the deliberations of the two chambers of parliament, meets the expectations of a specific social group be general. Very often, there is a need to sanction certain social, economic or political phenomena. What should be the primary principle of any legislative initiative is the belief that it will improve the current state, the current state of law, and not make it worse, opaque or repressive. Unfortunately, the draft law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws does not meet the criteria of good law that I have mentioned, which we should be making in this House in particular. The legislative process and the discussion around the provisions of the project clearly show that we are dealing with a law which, in the event of entry into force, will have many negative economic and financial consequences associated with land trafficking. In the context of the possible consequences of this law, the opinions have been published by numerous institutions for the protection of the rule of law, associations, agricultural headquarters, banks as financing institutions for agriculture. Let's face it: the State Treasury's Attorney General has also reported devastating remarks. Experts from the Polish Real Estate Market Federation also point to many inconsistent provisions whose understanding is virtually impossible. In many cases further interpretations have been left to the competent ministers who will introduce these rules in the regulations, while applying completely arbitrary and unpredictable solutions. The Ombudsman warns that there are far-reaching restrictions in the draft law on land trading which do not meet the proportionality test. It suggests that these solutions may be contrary to the constitution. The Ombudsman's reservations relate to the issue of both the sale of agricultural property and potential buyers of these real estate, i.e. who can be the buyer, they relate to the definition of agricultural real estate, they relate to the dependence of land sales on the existence of a land development plan. Similar comments were made by experts from the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, who also point to the possibility of conflict with the constitutional provisions. Their comments also concern the introduction of too rigid regulations relating to the acquisition of agricultural property from private entities. All of these voices and the analysis of the law itself indicate that the projectors under the pretext of protecting the Polish land from speculation and redemption by foreign investors will de facto limit the marketing of agricultural land and violate the property rights of all Poles and Poles. The basic provisions of the proposed law raise the most serious controversy. Example. Within 5 years of the possible date of entry into force of the Act, the sale of real estate or parts of real estate belonging to the stock shall be suspended. This resource may sell land which is defined in the local plans or study of land development conditions for purposes other than agricultural purposes, houses, apartments, farm buildings, gardens, land with an area of up to 2 hectares. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means stopping the possibility of developing Polish individual farms for years, which will result in a reduction in the efficiency and competitiveness of Polish agriculture. Besides, it's not just farmers who get hit on the head. What else does this bill mean? It means stopping urbanization and civilization processes in the countryside, limiting the possibility of developing suburban areas, limiting the possibility for municipalities and cities to adopt local spatial planning plans on the rights of the county, and finally creating an enormous increase in land prices, which are already covered by local spatial planning plans today. Who is this bill for when it hits all Poles? Maybe outside the Church and the owners of existing building sites, because they will be satisfied with this bill. At another point, the law introduces 2 key concepts: agricultural real estate and agricultural holdings. The legislator, using the first term, refers to any property that is not covered by a spatial planning plan, each, regardless of its location, both in the countryside and in the city. Such parcels will be subject to full marketing control, including those whose area is less than 1 ha. The right to buy such property will be obtained by the tenant, and in the case of a plot of land with an area of more than 1 ha, the right will be granted to the Agricultural Property Agency. In turn, the agricultural holding is not less than 1 ha of agricultural area. If the agricultural land on the holding is to be disposed of, consent shall be required under an administrative decision by the Director of the Agricultural Property Agency. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Minister, such a solution is characterised by discretion and is an extremely dangerous mechanism. Anyone who disposes of agricultural property, including a farmer, will have to apply for such permission unless the disposal is to be made to another farmer, but provided that he is a neighbour from the same municipality, because that is how these rules should be interpreted. The law deprives the seller of free choice of the buyer and, in addition, the right-to-privilege gives weapons in the form of a court order to determine the price. This can block the sale of a property for many, many years. Another effect, the undesirable effect of preventing the free disposal of property, stiffening the rotation of land, is the restriction of freedom of economic activity and the application of market economy principles. The Act attaches new farmers to the land like medieval serfs, prevents farmers from gaining funds from selling agricultural land inefficiently and, in fact, prevents the acquisition of land by most Poles. It affects people who want to get their lives together outside the urban agglomeration. The Act forces people to run the farm personally, without defining what this personal work is. Will it be possible to rent a combine harvester? We don't know. Will a brother, sister, son, daughter be able to help on the farm? We don't know. The bill says if we looked at it so literally that we didn't. I don't even mention hiring employees to help with the harvest. As I said earlier, there are doubts about the introduction of too rigid regulations relating to the acquisition of agricultural property from private entities. As a rule, only another individual farmer will be able to acquire such real estate. However, in the light of the draft law, such a farmer is not a person who, although adequately qualified and cultivated the land, does not live in the municipality in which the holding is situated, but, for example, in the municipality next door. I draw attention to the fact that very often farms occupy several municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: where do we want to take these new farmers if they can't buy land? Not all of them can count on inheritance. Creating new farms by dividing the previous ones, grinding the previous ones is, to put it mildly, not very smart. Besides, not everyone can live in a municipality where they intend to buy land. This is for various reasons, just because he already lives in the neighbouring municipality. The law allows the free movement of land between loved ones, but excluded persons in non-formal relationships from the scope of this concept. The omission in this definition of people who remain with the land-seller in common life not only leads to the terminology inconsistencies of Polish law In other laws, such records are available. But it also runs counter to the principle of taking into account the good of the family resulting from the Constitution. It is possible to acquire land with the permission of the agency, but this agreement is subject to controversial or undefined conditions. This gives a great deal of power to one official, creates a whole range of opportunities for abuse, or Let's not be afraid of that phrase. It's just corruption. The constitutional doubts raised by lawyers during the debate concerned inter alia. the obligation to carry out a personal holding within 10 years of its acquisition. This period seems to be very long, and the Act extremely rigidly regulates exceptions to this order, limiting them in principle only to loved ones and accidents. disproportionate in the light of the Constitution are also the consequences they threaten for failure to comply with this principle, i.e. the possibility for the Agency to apply for the compulsory purchase of agricultural property. Such a construction must be seen as a kind of criminal expropriation and it is contrary to the constitution, because, as I note, expropriation according to our constitution is possible for the purpose of achieving a specific public objective. In general, it is difficult to point out any purpose of such conduct. The Act does not unduly favour churches and religious associations which are not affected by the restrictions mentioned above, and this privilege in my view is not justified by the tasks performed by religious unions as well as by any other considerations. Ladies and gentlemen, as if the churches were engaged in the daily cultivation of the land and were called to do so... Well, it's not. In these specific powers, the Act omits the entities whose paradoxical functioning should appear to be conducive to the development of modern agriculture. I mean, whether it's cooperatives or agricultural companies. The legislator's going exactly the other way. The Act deals with a controversial solution giving the Agency the right to buy shares and shares in capital companies holding agricultural property combined with the right of access to the financial documentation of those entities. The Act makes it difficult for farmers to create companies. If such a company is the owner of agricultural property, on the occasion of any change of partner, the agency will be able to buy this property. Here is the question, my question as a man who comes from business: who will be responsible for the further functioning of such entities? Who's gonna run this land? Although in this case it's rather... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but it's been 13 minutes.]] Okay, I'm almost done. Can I at least finish this sentence? [[Excuse me?]] I'm gonna finish this sentence. [[Please.]] In this case, we are not talking about farms, we are talking about agricultural enterprises, so the question arises as to whether agency officials have enough experience, enough knowledge. Mr. Marshal, I'll conclude. I believe that this law should be rejected and that it should be taken seriously to work on the adoption of rules that will actually protect what designers intend to protect, that is to say, protect actually Polish farmers and will not be restrictive towards the rest of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u364	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Senate is what the rest of the authorities stimulates to noble action, from dishonest dissuade, and from passion cools down. Therefore, without the council, opinion and control of the Senate, nothing in the Republic or outside its borders is to be done. These are the words of Andrzej Frycz-Modrzewski, which are the motto of our activity. And that's what this speech is for. My wife's grandfather, the farmer At that time, the landlord who delivered milk to Wedel was spoken of, after the war, through the decisions of our compatriots, he was forced to leave his farm with a ban on settling closer than 50 km from the place where he successfully cultivated the land. This drama broke him forever. That's why I've known since I was a child that sacred property rights cannot be violated. And it is good that, in relation to the original provisions of the bill in question, this issue was changed in favour of the owners. Let me stress: that's good. It's a good thing the bill is going to regulate the acquisition of land within our fatherhood. Except, as always, the devil is in the details. What many have already said here. I don't want to repeat the arguments, but I'll even talk about the famous record in good faith. Which means, in good faith, you can define it, and I learned it on my own, when, in good faith, I mowed the garden and lawn by the house, I mowed some seedlings that my wife put in there because I didn't know there were flowers to be there. And I got it in my ears. So that with what's in good faith, it can be different. But now I'm serious. Professor Korzycka from the Department of Agricultural Law and the Food Safety System of the University of Warsaw, surely the expert, writes in extenso in his study à talk of religious unions: The gathering of 100 persons to establish a religious union can be quite easy in practice and can be a real temptation to acquire agricultural property without statutory restrictions by non-individual farmers. It cannot be ruled out, but rather it should be assumed that this could be done for speculative purposes. History is the teacher of life. And we've been through this before. There was a time when cars could be imported duty-free through religious unions, and such compounds multiplied like mushrooms after rain, and even some, dishonest, Catholic priests also used this gate. We're opening that gate again right now. Who's gonna make a mistake once... As the Germans say, "einmal ist keinmal" is nothing. But whoever repeats the same mistake behaves unreasonablely. That is why this provision should be corrected. When we sent our commandos to Czechoslovakia in 1968, a joke arose among the highlanders that it was the biggest mistake of our export industry, because the Czechs ordered green socks, and we sent them red berets. With this bill, it could be similar. We want what no one's covering for, hit an uncontrollable purchase of land by foreigners. And we accidentally hit many millions of our compatriots, who, under special circumstances, already mentioned here, would like to acquire land or expand their farms. The week that passed since the memorable meeting of the Senate Legislative Commission, which did not deliver an opinion on the bill in question, was used to make this law return to a better one. Deadline is May 1, and today is April 13th. We still have a Senate meeting on April 20th, as the marshal told us, and April 28th and 29th. I appeal to the Minister, to the Government, to the Ministry of Agriculture, to take into account the whole discussion that you have alternately listened to, and to give yourself a few more days to make this extremely important law even better. So that it protects us from uncontrollable land purchases by speculators I'm not saying by foreigners, because speculators can be, so to speak, different ointments. At the same time, it gave honest citizens the opportunity to pursue their life-long passions in agriculture. If we don't do this, we're gonna create a defective bill that doesn't meet expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u366	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Łyczak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I join you in thanking me for this bill, the bill that Polish farmers, real Polish farmers were waiting for. And I would like to say one sentence, which during this few hours of discussion did not fall, namely that this law certainly guarantees one thing: that from now on Polish farmers, true Polish farmers, will not have to defend Polish land, on strike, for which they were not so long arrested and for which they had certain consequences. I don't think that's gonna happen now and in the near future. And since nothing is perfect, this bill is not entirely perfect either. Therefore, I will allow myself to make an amendment on behalf of a few senators. I will mention them: Senator Margareta Budner, Professor Jan Żaryn, Professor Andrzej Stanisławek and my humble person, Łyczak Józef. The amendment, which can already be called a church amendment, concerns the provisions of the law allowing the purchase of land by churches and religious unions. Maybe I'll give you the text of the amendment first and then a brief explanation. We propose in the article. Point 4 of Article 7 Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 delete point 3. d, according to which the provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply. 1 and 2 do not concern the acquisition of agricultural property by legal persons acting on the basis of the laws on the relationship of the State to the Catholic Church in the Republic of Poland, on the relationship of the State to other churches and religious associations and on the guarantees of freedom of conscience and religion. And further deletions: in Article. Point 7 (5) (a) b, in the mouth. 5 point 3 is deleted and Article 3 is deleted. point 7 is deleted. d. Now, the justification. The Act aims primarily to improve the agrarian structure in Poland, and also to protect the land from speculative buy-out, which does not guarantee compatible with the social interest the use of purchased land for agricultural purposes. The Act fulfils the above conditions and in addition implements the principle resulting from the Article. 23 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which the country's agricultural system is based on a family farm. As a result, churches and religious associations will also be able to acquire agricultural land. Such regulation may give rise to the fear that religious unions and churches will only be created for the purpose of acquiring land. Such preference raises the question why the legislator does not allow other legal entities to purchase land, and in this case makes an exception, especially since the Church and other religious associations do not have agricultural qualifications and do not run farms. Such a record may constitute a gap in the law, and this is the way the earth will go to foreigners or will be subject to speculation. The constitutionality of these provisions, their compliance with Article, should be reconsidered. 32 Constitution, which is based on the principle of equality. I am afraid that this law creates a new privileged group in terms of ownership. I will add that this record is criticized not only by villagers, farmers, not only by the inhabitants of the city, but so that what is most important By the representatives of the Church. From the conversation with the bishop in my diocese and Professor Stanisławski I learned that the Church also believes that if this record remains in the law, it will cause the Church harm. Therefore, I ask you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, to support this amendment, which changes the record, which is of no use to anyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u368	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would very much like you to listen to this, Minister, because I count on you to support absolutely all these amendments. I'm not going to get a divorce on the bill, my previous speakers have actually said everything, but I'd like to point out a few things. Minister, I'm from Warmia and Mazury, and there's a lot of V and VI soil. What can be done when farmers do not want such land Because, as you know, the sixth grade is sand. And people often have land in very attractive places? Well, it's the Land of the Thousand Lakes. And then what? Individual farmer, statutory sharpenings... I mean, sometimes someone wants to sell some of their share to anyone, sometimes to people. Not farmers at all They come there, they build houses, they shop, somebody finds employment, so that they stimulate this area to live. And I would like you, Minister, to pay attention to that. That's not here. Well, every bill should comply with the principles of correct legislation. And where there are underdefinitions, where the decision belongs to one person and everything depends on it, there are demons awakening and, unfortunately, very often, it is a wide-open gateway to corruption. I hope that, as the Deputy Minister has declared here, this law will indeed be reviewed and detailed in the near future, or at least clarified. And those issues that we are talking about today will be excluded. But I hope that the amendments that we will make today will still be taken into account today. I will not talk about vague terms such as over-concentration of agricultural land, or It's a completely unclear guarantee of proper agricultural activity. Well, no one understands that. If we enter such terms, we should at least give framework, legitimacy, if that is in the regulation, or we indicate the conditions and establish a level playing field for all. The most important thing for me is two things. And in this respect, I am making amendments, asking you to approach them. The first case is execution proceedings. I know that before, in the bill, it was, and I can't understand why it's not there now. I'll tell you exactly what I mean, I'll actually say it again. Minister, in a situation where enforcement proceedings take place, there are farmers, Poles farmers, as one senator said here, real farmers, farmers, who may soon be losing their homes, who may soon lose their whole life's work. Why are you condemning them with this bill to make their living worthwhile in the bidding process? Why don't they have the right, after all, there's a court, so that as the highest amount of money will not only power the creditor's pocket, but let the debtor out of these debts dig himself up and start some normal life, not be sentenced to homelessness for the rest of his life. Or to be in debt? That is why I am making an amendment in this regard. I am counting on the support of this amendment. Of course, other senators, Professor Cichoń, Professor Żaryn, signed the amendment. I'm counting on the government to support this amendment, too. The aim is to ensure that in enforcement proceedings where the creditor should be satisfied with the highest possible amount and the debtor should pay his debts but receive the highest possible payment You have given an opportunity, Minister, to purchase land also to other people, and not only to individual farmers, sometimes not interested or uninterested in the fact that this land is of such a class that no one in that municipality wants to manage. Not to mention sometimes it's at the crossroads of the communes. What happens when it's at the junction of the communes? And the second point, Minister, which I would also ask you to consider, is the matter of the destroyed objects that I have spoken of and which are also a lot in Warmia and Mazury, although they are not only there. When the object is entered in the register of monuments We are talking about the procedure of typing when you need the permission of the monument conservator, when this investor, so that he can actually renovate it and get the shape that he was before, waits all the way through torment, that is not what an individual farmer is interested in. You were talking about the agency, but I'm talking about the fact that sometimes it's in the private hands of people who can't handle it financially and want to throw it away. It's about not just individual farmers, because they're not interested, they're not usually interested in... Very often they are passionate, very often. Of course, we're saying here you emphasize that. Our citizens, who should have equal, normal access to it, and this is our cultural heritage. I am surprised that the Ministry had not noticed this before, but I hope that this amendment, Minister, will also be supported by the government. I have these reservations. There's a lot more, but no more straining... In any case, the amendments which have been tabled, although they partially improve this law. This bill is needed, but it cannot be that today we will accept it without thinking about what we are voting on, and only then will we lean on the actual problems that it can bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u370	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czerwinski will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is necessary, necessary. I am in full favour of the objectives which have been expressed in this law. Poland is a nation, citizens, territory, that is also land, and culture, language. One of these ingredients Poland is the law that we are dealing with. We're bringing her in late, maybe because we're working on her in a rescue way. Unlike my fellow senators from the Civic Platform, I have concerns not about its constitutionality or bad influence on, generally speaking, agricultural issues. I have concerns that in some cases it may be too restrictive or otherwise: it creates an opportunity to avoid it, meaning that there are places, gaps where it can be missed. Now it's concrete. I asked the Minister about the issue of transitional provisions, as to whether these provisions should not be formulated in such a way that, in the case of procedures that have already been initiated, we will apply new provisions, i.e. those which are in this law, and not in the past, in the current version. I set an example in life that can show that there is something that needs to be applied. I would just like to confirm once again the issue directly related to the acquisition of land by foreigners. While it is in the existing regulations that the foreigner must apply for the Minister's permission, there is obviously no provision in the new regulations. The application of the existing rules combined with the authorisation constitutes a real barrier for aliens to taking over the property directly, but the application to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration ceases to apply, and categorically, on 1 May. There can be no legislation that puts foreigners in a worse legal position than the citizens of our country. As a result, if the old legislation comes under the regime... If this fuse wears off, and the new law does not yet apply, the procedures that have been initiated when the old legal status was in force will become very simple. There will be no brake for aliens to take over the land. I'm talking about this transition period. Therefore, I will allow myself to put on the hands of the Marshal the amendment concerning the article. 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 13, which say that new rules will apply to procedures already initiated. 'Cause that's why we bring them in. This is particularly important during this transition period. Next line. The bill at certain moments is imprecise. Let me give you an example. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 amendment of the eighth letter d point 3. It is about introducing new articles, i.e. Article 2 3ba.3bd. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3ba is the wording "the exclusion of entities which cannot participate in restricted tenders organised by the Agricultural Property Agency " on the date of publication of the list referred to in Article. It is about this entity that held shares or shares in commercial companies owned by agricultural property or in a subsidiary of such a company. First, this wording does not include parent companies, independent... no, subsidiaries, only parent companies. Someone picked it up at the committee stage and made an appropriate amendment. Unfortunately, it does not include companies either. ♪ Like I said ♪ It's a neighborhood. I mean, it's one entity that owns two companies. This entity does not own agricultural property. Company A, the owner of which is the owner, owns the agricultural property and Company B, which is to acquire the next agricultural land, is not the owner. That doesn't include a situation like this. I'll also make an appropriate amendment, i.e. where there are parallel companies owned by one entity. That's the situation. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I said This article does not cover this provision. Few of this, here we are rightly talking about companies governed by commercial law, only that companies governed by commercial law are capital and personal companies. There are shares or shares in equity companies, but the question is, what about commercial law companies, which are private companies. Well, here is the equivalent of the wording of shares or shares, namely: the total rights and obligations of the partner and this wording should be found. This means that not only did he own shares or shares in commercial companies, but also... or the general rights and obligations of the shareholder. At that time, not only capital companies but also personal companies will be involved in the subject matter of this provision, which is probably what the law was about. I'll make the right amendment. Next line. Namely, the legislator tries in the newly added article. 3a and 3b of the Act on the Agricultural System try to capture issues related to the passage of land, I would call it, intercepting property through operations in the capital market between companies. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 3a (3) (a) 1 we read: The State Treasury agency has the right to buy shares and shares in a company governed by commercial law, which owns agricultural property. Okay, if a company sells their land, agricultural property, the agency has the right to buy it first. Whether she uses it or not, that's her right. Question: What if there is a parent company over this company whose shares are traded? Please note that then the actual owner, the owner of the real estate changes, but here we are not dealing with the transfer of real estate, the sale of real estate, at least the attempt to sell real estate, only the trading of shares of the company, not the sale of real estate... Even more simply, the shares of the parent company are traded, and the subsidiary company, the daughter company... her shares remain not very much and, of course, the property is not sold out. And the records on the attempt to block such situations, unfortunately, are not in this bill. The same is true with regard to Article. 3b, in which we are dealing with a change of partner or the accession of a new partner to a partnership. We are not trying to block the possibility of a real estate change by changing the owners not the real estate, not the shares of the company, but the company that is superior to the property that owns the property. The correct amendment... actually 2 amendments that will try to correct the possible shortcomings of this law 'Cause these rules can be celebrated. I'm putting a marshal in your hands. Question: Is there more scope for circumvention of the provisions of this law? Probably, we'll see about that in practice. Let's hope there aren't too many. We will not here indicate which points may still be a cause for such attempts. I hope that these amendments, which will be tabled and which will be accepted by the government, will effectively prevent attempts to circumvent this law, a law which, as I say, is very necessary and even constitutional in terms of issues related to Poland's regime, land trading and the shape of the Polish state in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u372	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bobko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm dealing with a tough bill today. The measure of this difficulty may also be the length of the debate. Her eighth hour seems to have just begun. But there is certainly one very positive element, at least for me, in this difficult debate, namely that disputes and disagreements are of a substantive rather than political nature here. Right? So this is a good example, and I hope it's not the only one that we can talk about difficult things over divisions with a view to common good. Here this objective is clear and clear, but the problem is that the way to achieve this goal of protecting Polish land and proper farming, as well as the means to achieve this goal, is unfortunately not clear. They raise many, many doubts. So we're in a situation where we have a certain threat and we're looking for the right measures in a situation of great doubt or high risk. And unfortunately, in life it is often so, and it is said that therapy can be worse than illness. Right? Getting rid of Polish land, selling Polish land is a disease, this disease is not fully diagnosed, because we do not have data, the government does not have hard data on how much real danger it is already and what it could be in the future. But the effects of therapy can be very painful. Much has been said here about the difficulties and concrete proposals for amendments. I would like to draw attention to some general thoughts that are precisely related to some of the risks and difficulties that this law brings. It essentially restricts property rights, it interferes very strongly with property rights. This is not a good situation. This, of course, is justified on the one hand by this superior purpose and by a certain necessity, and on the other hand by the fact that the earth is a specific good, is not a product in the strict sense of the word, so in a market sense only and exclusively, because it is a special good, and for this reason certain limitations in the possession of this property, which is the earth, are or may be justified, but only to a certain extent. However, here in several places there are doubts, and even... I hope that, contrary to our intentions, we will not even refer to the history of the Polish tradition concerning the attachment of the peasant to the ground. Right? But today in this act, the owner is so obliged, he is very strongly connected to the earth also through the place, so we are a little bit concerned about this tradition here unfortunately. Another difficulty in my assessment of this law is the degree of its complexity. On the one hand, it relates to very simple human affairs, to farmers' affairs, but the extent of its complexity is such that for an average citizen it is really not easy to read. And worse, the relationship between the intentions or certain mechanisms that it introduces and the effects that are expected is complex and unclear. And we know from experience that often the effects of the act are counterproductive, sometimes they are exactly opposite to the intentions of the legislator. And unfortunately, that is also the danger that this law introduces. Another case may not be that important, but I'll mention it too. This law is, in a sense, non-educational in civil terms, because it is, in fact, a law that, as if it were trying to... We're trying to get past a certain legal situation through this bill. On the one hand, the European Union guarantees free movement of capital, etc., and on the other hand we are trying to avoid this right here. This is justified, I share the view that this is the right action in this particular case, but in the wider horizon it is just a little bit doubtful about a certain education or civic culture, a certain culture of public life. And finally, in fact, there are many unclear points in this bill that create opportunities for abuse, such as... That's where we talked about it. And I think that at least some of the amendments, even though they have been tabled recently, regarding religious unions, we still have a chance to introduce and perhaps improve this law a little bit. Finally, I would like to appeal to the Senate Bureau, but also to the government... Besides, such declarations came from the Minister's mouth. This law, due to its complexity, requires specific monitoring and examination of the actual effects, not those declared or not of the intended but the actual effects of its action. Special monitoring is needed here, and I think that after a while we will also be in Parliament asking for information about how this law actually worked. Of course, it will take time for this, certainly after a week or a month, but at some foreseeable time we will probably ask for this information. And now I call on the government to monitor the effects of this law. I also think that if in this particular case it turns out that we have made some mistakes, there will be no reason to hide them. Power, no authority likes to admit mistakes, but I think that in this particular case, if the government finds that something was wrong and it needs to be corrected, it will probably not expose itself to malice, but it will be accepted with respect. Finally, I hope that the opposition will also want to take responsibility for this bill by voting. I think we really have a chance to stand over the division of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u374	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Libicki, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Surely, we are working under pressure of time, that on 1 May the existing regulations will cease to apply and this matter should somehow be settled, the property issue of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. I think I agree with my previous speaker, Senator Grodzki. We still have some time to think about it a little longer, but maybe it's a little academic discussion, whether two weeks is a lot or a little bit, and it certainly needs to be settled somehow. It is also important to be clear that this issue raises very serious concerns. Senator Bobko, my venerable previous speaker, was just talking about how complicated and deeply reaching matter is. It is true, but it also causes many people to be concerned about these regulations. We probably have different experiences, we are from different electoral districts, from different parts of Poland. I can say that in those maybe not a lot of conversations that I had, but I did, rather I met with concern about what it would be, whether we would somehow be able to function normally, etc., etc., etc., etc. Why am I talking about all this? I'm talking about all of this because it's natural for this to happen. And that's what Professor Bobko was talking about. That if this law enters into force, it should be monitored intensively and the effects of this monitoring should be converted into legislative solutions very quickly, such as will work in life. And to be honest, I very much welcome the position that the Legislative Committee, when we talked about this law, presented to Minister Babalski. Minister Babalski said exactly: we will monitor it, we will see how life will verify this bill, and what life will bring us... what will be improved, we will quickly improve. It seemed to me and still seems to me that this is a very rational approach to the case. It was with some surprise that I received the words of Minister Jurgel today that it would not be so that in 2004 certain arrangements were adopted for land trading, which is about to end, and then it was possible, every three years, to update them, to make some changes, but no one did, and therefore today there is no reason to do so either. Well, to be honest, I'm surprised by this discrepancy. Is the argument that someone didn't do something they should have done an argument that they shouldn't do it anymore? Well, that's surprising to me. There's so much entrance. I would now like to make three amendments and to mention the fourth amendment that I tabled with Senator Klich and which is already complex. The first point concerns situations where the Agricultural Property Agency may reserve who can participate in a given tender. The records we have are that individual farmers can participate in it, who want to expand the family farm if they live in the municipality. Well, from the discussions I had, it appears that there were demands that, before it was limited to the commune, it should be limited to the community. I therefore allow myself to make such an amendment. That's the first thing. Second thing. From the deliberations of the Legislative Committee... At our meeting there was a farmer who presented his situation. He inherited the land and has more than 1 ha. It does not run agricultural activities today, but would like to be able to buy more land on which it will be able to operate. I therefore allow myself the appropriate amendment to be tabled. That's my second amendment. Finally, amendment three. She's also connected to the signals I received, the signals from the people I spoke to. Art. 11 point 1 speaks of so-called habitat sites. There's a limit to 0.5 ha. We discussed this with Minister Babalski at the committee meeting. That's what I asked... I wasn't sure if I'd make an amendment that would increase this 0.5 ha to 1 ha, but I figured I'd make it. I was approached by people who said they had 0.7. ha or 0.6 ha, and they asked what to do, how it would come into force, etc. If this monitoring were to be verified in a timely manner, I might not have tabled such an amendment, but today's statement by Minister Jurgiel has mobilized me to submit it. And one last thing at the end. I put Senator Klich together... I mean, Senator Klich is a spiritus movens making this amendment, and I'm second. This is an amendment that concerns the right of first-emption for the heirs of those who have been affected by the agricultural reform rules. That's what Professor Żaryn was talking about. It seems that, in the last term of office, despite the various political tensions that functioned and functioned, there was a consensus on this matter. I think that the fact that Senator Żaryn had also tabled such an amendment at the meeting of the Legislative Commission is proof that this consensus exists. I would therefore just like to say that I have been authorised by Senator Klich, who is absent to say so and then at the committee meeting, if it is necessary to speak on this issue, to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u376	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Silence to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It could be said that this law is nihil novi sub salts, nothing new under the sun, because, please, a number of similar solutions contain European Union legislation, on which everyone is eager to follow, and especially the opposition side. Ladies and gentlemen, these are solutions that have already been adopted. Even at a time when there was no Union, only the European Economic Community before it existed, a whole series of directives, even the Council of the European Economic Community, were adopted on improving the agrarian structure. And in Western European countries, similar solutions have been introduced to those that we are introducing today, especially those concerning the issue of agricultural qualifications, the control of the size of the agricultural area that will arise as a result of the transaction. I'm talking about the standards that predict the limit of 300 ha here. As well as other arrangements for the control of the marketing of agricultural real estate. Not much, I would like to add that they are much wider than in the Polish system. Please consider that we're in control. only the activities relating to the transfer of agricultural property and in the European Union, this control extends also to activities such as the lease agreement. As a general rule, I would not cut my robes and say that there is some glaring restriction on property rights. It must be remembered that this beautiful formula from the Napoleonic code, that the law is sacred, proprieté est sacré, has long since become obsolete. At the moment, it is accepted that ownership does give certain rights to owners, but they are not absolute, and the way in which they are exercised can be regulated and shaped by the State in the name of common benefit, as referred to in Article. 1 Protocol No 1 to the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights, which speaks directly about this. Therefore, such restrictions, which are considered necessary by the States, exist everywhere. Of course, as always, in any legal regulation, the question of proportion is important. You could say it's about not shooting a cannon at a sparrow. That is why I would like to move from proportion to adopted solutions and make some amendments that would be aimed at limiting certain under-definitions or certain decision-making gaps, perhaps too far-reaching, granted to the Agricultural Property Agency. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would call for clarification of the concept of a loved one, because I see that in this whirlwind of work on the bill, in this haste there has been a omission of a number of people, which I think we did not want to miss. Please note, for example, that there have been omissions of a congenital person, e.g. Son-in-law or daughter-in-law. Therefore, I propose to clarify this article, to specify that a close person means a spouse, a preliminary one, for example. grandparents, a second-rate, i.e. grandchildren, siblings, congenital in the same line or step Who are the relatives of the spouse, for they are the relatives of the spouse. A person who remains in a position of adoption and a spouse of a person who is adopted. And in this way, I think, we would have a certain range of loved ones, a little wider, but perhaps as planned by the legislator. However, so that persons belonging to loved ones are exempted from restrictions which generally apply to other persons who are not close. That's one thing. The second point, also crucial, I believe, concerns the definition of a farmer. I mean, what's in the article. Point 9, paragraph. 1. It seems unfortunate to establish in this definition that a farmer must reside in a municipality where he has a real estate and work for at least five years. Because, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not he lives in a given municipality is very often a matter only of administrative decision. All it takes is an administrative decision to extend the boundaries of a given municipality and it turns out, for example, that my family Wieliczka will no longer be in the municipality of Wieliczka, but will enter e.g. to the municipality of Kraków. And, ladies and gentlemen, referring to these kinds of criteria, such formal and administrative, I don't think it's appropriate. As well as the requirement to work for 5 years on the farm concerned. Well, let's imagine the typical situation that can happen in a family, let's call it, a bourgeois from generation to generation, there's a son who wants to study at an agricultural academy; today it's called an agricultural university. Well, he's a college guy. Is it really our intention not to qualify him as a farmer? Because he doesn't have the criterion of working for five years and living in the municipality where he's going to acquire... he's not actually going to acquire it, but where he's going to operate. 'Cause he's not running it because he just graduated from college. Well, it would be a solution that appears to be unfair and even, I would say, pointless. Because if a man has an education, and even higher, in terms of agriculture, in my view, denying him the quality of a farmer is absolutely not justified. The third issue, which is precisely related to these proportions, is the question of what boundaries, arealy, should be exempt from the restrictions that are being introduced. I am in favour of the amendments that have been tabled here to make it to the limit of 2 ha. Let me remind you that the current regulation provided for a limit of 5 ha. In most European laws I know there is just this limit of 2 ha. And in the case of real estate, there is no interference from the state, there is no control of the transaction similar to that which we want to introduce here. It seems to me that the proposal I've heard about here, that it's a limitation to probably 30 a... it's worth considering whether it should be increased to 2 ha. That would be so many general comments. I just want to say that there are a lot of different studies on this subject. I used to paralyze myself professionally when I was working in the cathedral of agricultural law with Professor Lichorovich. There are numerous studies of his authorship. In particular, I refer to a study such as "Basic solutions for agricultural land trading in the legislation of Western European countries." In particular, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz I refer to this study, which shows how such solutions look like in Western Europe, which we often refer to, pointing to a pattern to follow. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this state that we have so far, is the state of maximum liberalism in the trade in agricultural real estate, liberalism, which was created as a kind of reaction, just a reflection of the pendulum in the other direction, a 180-degree return on the regulations that existed in the times of real socialism, i.e. until 1989, when you remember, you remember, the regulations of the Civil Code, and especially the famous art. 1059 concerning the inheritance of agricultural holdings were very restrictive, to the extent that the Constitutional Tribunal finally concluded that this was contrary to the Constitution. With us, the pendulum moved completely the other way and introduced such liberalism, which does not exist in any of Western European countries at the moment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, progress in civilization is such that it forces certain requirements, certain qualifications of persons engaged in various activities. And this is also what has happened in matters relating to the running of the farm, and today we require that those carrying out this activity have any qualifications, whether theoretical or practical. Therefore, as I say, I would not regret here that we are allegedly violating, as it was once said, the sacred right of ownership. I would like to stress that when it comes to the turnover between loved ones, which is in the family... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Time's up.]] ...it is fully secured here, it is not subject to these different restrictions and checks. As I am saying, in order to clarify even more, I am making a proposal on the definition of a loved one. And I wouldn't see any reason to state, either, just like the senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[Time's up, Senator.]] ...says there's a violation of European Union law here. There is no such infringement, just as there is no infringement by the other countries that I mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u378	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two informations for you. One's bad, the other's good. The bad news, Minister, is that, unfortunately, I cannot join in any way the delights of my colleagues in Law and Justice over this law, and therefore I cannot thank you either. And the good news is, unlike them, I'm not gonna make any amendment to this bill. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, considering actually not the text of the law, but just the speeches of my esteemed colleagues from the governing coalition, delighted by this law, it must be said that these 20 or about 20 amendments and changes earlier in the Sejm and these doubts at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, which ended I assure you, Minister: how rarely The fact that the senators didn't know what they were going to do shows that the bill is really dilated and controversial. For me the essence of not knowing what to do with it was, for example. Senator Dobrzyński, who, following his thanks, made five amendments himself. I give my word that for the last four years, I have never made five amendments at the same time. Here, however, one could recall the proverb: "God, keep me from my friends, because I can handle my enemies myself. I'd like to thank you very much. I'm afraid he's not in the gym right now. Senator Bobko too much... [[There it is.]] [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] Excuse me. I didn't look here. ...Smart, peaceful and concerted performance. We miss it in political space and on every level. Please accept that also... [[The senator will set an example.]] I just want to set an example. Senator Mammoths, as usual, is invaluable, but he knows well that I am a conciliatory man because we sit together in two committees. I would like to thank you again for this speech, Senator, especially since it takes me off the obligation to translate many of the problems of this law, because you did it perfectly. I'd just add... I was going back to that, but the Minister didn't ask me to answer in the middle of the discussion today. However, I would like to add this opportunity to celebrate the brother's bill because by placing in a certain logical sequence the possibility of one member of the family buying land and giving... I've read it, I don't think there's gonna be a way to block that bypass. I would like to say more about the most important things that have been mentioned here, but I would like to highlight them again. I think it is wrong that this law deprives 35 million Poles of the possibility of having even small pieces of agricultural property. I will return to the presentation by Senator Staron, who is really very thorough. I absolutely agree with her. She pointed out the problem that will be in the Mazury, in Warmia. Enough in this bill... I hope they will pass the amendments that say that the bill will not apply to parcels of two or three - Four. - five acres. I think this solution, first of all, will protect you from the losses of your owners. farmers and non-farmers This type of plot is precisely in these areas, because, of course, if the law passes in this form, they will suffer huge losses. On the other hand, why don't we let the city have a plot by the lake. Even in the Polish People's Republic there was a lot of gardens. If... [[The gardens have been wiped out.]] Second of all, I'm gonna move on to... Of course, if there was a development plan everywhere, my comments in this area probably would not have such a sound at the moment, but unfortunately it is not so, Minister. I believe that as long as this situation is not resolved and is not resolved tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, it will only take a long time. The gate should remain that way. I repeat the second argument. He was being disposed of here, but I am really worried about whether this law, which changes the conditions in relation to our pre-accession legal status, will not put us at risk of conflict with the European Union. Of course, I don't want to say that I think it will, but the explanations I listened to today didn't convince me. I would very much like to be wrong, and I would very much like the Minister to be right, that it will not affect Poland or the Polish countryside in any way. I also believe that this law, despite the denials of the senators who referred to it, was the same in the speeches and replies of both ministers. It's a bill, although you've tried to hide it, de facto about... It sounded like a lot of things. In Senator Czerwiński's speeches, who said that this bill is to block foreigners, but in some places it is even a hole and can lead to the fact that it will not protect to the end. If so, it is a certain ratio legis and I understand that most of my previous speakers agreed, they agreed that this should be the case, although I do not agree. I disagree with that for exactly the same reasons that Senator Dobkowski was talking about, that this is a bit of a Kalego approach. What would we say if the French today or when they opened up the market, because after 3 and 4 years after our entry into the European Union, they said no? They could have made a bill like this after four years... [[Time.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. ...which would block the possibility of Poles working in the Union. Senator Bobko scored it very well. For these reasons, I believe, Minister, that this bill is flawed and I am very afraid of it. At the same time, I hope that all the amendments tabled here will be adopted, not to mention preserving the rights of former owners and their descendants, who do not know why, I do not know what the ratio legis was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u380	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Come on in. Second appearance, so five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u381	Checking the clock, Mr. Marshal. It's fifty-four, which is fifty-nine. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the bill is, of course, right, as I have already said, but the law in its current form is unacceptable, it is bad, it is bad. The Agency gets wide powers, the farmer is actually placed against the wall with his head down. Of course, it has to be evened out. So far, as I remember, we have already tried several times over laws, which I also thought were bad, and there was no special discussion, and these laws were adopted without amendments. Today I'm a little surprised. My first term in the Senate, maybe the last, or maybe not. Anyway, I'm a little surprised today. After all, there were such important laws as the law on the prosecutor's office, surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time, I said that if the Court were to deal in the order of the applications, the law in question would be in the Court for 2, 3 years. I was saying that it was wrong that such regulations were bad, but today, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that what you are reporting... I'm listening quite precisely to your speeches. If you wanted me to do it under these amendments, I would do it, because really all the amendments of the state are right. I would like to add another one on which I am addicted to whether I will vote in favour or against. I'm sure the Minister already knows what I'm talking about. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: No.]] I propose an amendment to the article. It's a seven-year bill. Only an individual farmer may be the purchaser of agricultural real estate, unless otherwise provided by the law. This provision shall not apply to the sale of: real estate and parts intended for... We still have what's listed in the Agricultural Property Agency Act. It is a local spatial planning plan, a conditional study, a final decision on the construction conditions for technology parks, industrial parks, business centers, etc. Next: real estate located within the limits of special economic zones, houses, residential premises, real estate with an area of up to 2 ha. If this amendment does not pass, I will not be able to vote in favour, because I am aware of how local governments will look at farmers after this law has been passed. In general, if there's no development plan, only an individual farmer can buy land, sell land. Mr. Minister of Agriculture... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Agricultural land.]] Agricultural, yeah. The Minister of Agriculture has come up with this idea that he's leaving the study for the agency... He said, "Let the agency make money on land, on real estate." Well, that's good, and rightly so, except we have to take into account the situation with the development plans, how long the procedures are going on. If we want to take this direction in the end, we must remember that we will block for a long period of development... I'm talking not only about big cities, but also about smaller cities, about municipalities. Where there is no zoning plan, unfortunately only hands can be spread out. In order for the municipality to adopt a spatial planning plan, it is not such a simple matter, because it requires certain procedures to be followed. As I said, it is important to adopt a spatial planning plan: compensation of various types, devices that need to be made and implemented, etc. This isn't a fast process. We've been doing this for a long, long time and it won't be so long that we'll have 100% coverage. Of course, there are cities that have plans. It's a little easier in the city area. I agree with the Minister that there are so many vagrants in the city who could do it, and they did it. But nowhere in the world is it that spatial planning is all over the area, 100%. As I said, in the low-invested areas it won't pay off. Why make plans there? That's why there are decisions about the construction conditions issued so that they simply do not invest in the realization of the plans. If this amendment is adopted, I will vote in favour of this law with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u382	Thank you very much. I understand you're making an amendment. Yes? [[Coming right up, yeah.]] Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Rotnicka. Come on in, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I may repeat some of the proposals for amendments to this law, but it so happened that someone else had the priority of filing before me. And it goes, among other things. about Senator Józef Łyczak, who drew attention to the provisions of the article. 7 point 4 of the Law on Art. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3. It is an exception to the general principle that agricultural property will only be able to acquire individual farmers. And in these exceptions, of course, there are Catholic Churches and other churches and religious associations. The senator has already justified this with everything I could say, so I would just like to signal that I am supporting this amendment and that I myself am the author of such an amendment. Therefore, I also add to the statement or amendment of Senator Łyczak my own, which has the same record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u384	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm gonna be brief because everything's been said, so I'm not gonna repeat myself. I would just like to say that I fully attach to what Mrs. Lydia Staron, Senator Bobko and many others have said. I want to say this: I'm a farmer and a practice, I've been a farmer for 35 years, I'm currently running 400 hectares of land. I'm not a Marshal farmer, I haven't lost touch with reality, I'm not living in an illusion world. This bill is very bad. And I understand that. However, no one can tell me that I am against protecting Polish land. When I fought for the protection of Polish land and picked it up in public everywhere, even under the Seym, nobody had thought about it yet. I protested in defence of Polish land as soon as Poland joined the European Union. It's been so many years, and today we're in this situation... I mark, not because of the current government, because the Civic Platform has been running for eight years lately. Now we're in such a proverbial situation that there's a fire and we're digging wells. And I understand that we have to deal with this matter, that we have to stop the sale of Polish land. I'm in, I'll vote for it. Like I said, this bill is flawed, but we have a promise from the minister. And I think it's gonna be kept. That in the near future we will be working on a law on shaping the agricultural system. That's where it's gonna have to be clarified and monitored on an ongoing basis. That's what I'm counting on. However, there are many amendments tabled and some could be taken into account at this stage. 'Cause I can't imagine what we're gonna say to people in the country. That we're just questioning sacred property rights and we're gonna dictate to them how many ars can they sell? I find it embarrassing and offensive to a Polish peasant. We're supposed to let him sell 30 a, 3,000 m2 or, if it's built-in, up to 0.5 ha? This is outrageous. In the history of Poland it was that the peasants defended and fed. There was even such a proverb: from the mouse to the emperor they all live with the host. And today he wants to make his landlord, the farmer, so he can only decide 30 a.m.? This is outrageous. Let me give you a simple example. I in my farm, which I partially bought from the former PGR... The Pegeers had a multitude of smaller, fragmented farms; there were dozens of habitats that were not used at all, and were agricultural land; some stakes, some debris, some bushings. You don't use it. There's a lot of interest in it. Sorry about the colloquialism. The townies who want to come and buy it with good money. It's absolutely useless to me. I have lands on Kashubach; there are so-called pine and spruce lands, V, VI classes, where some IVb. After all, a farmer who owns V or VI land has pieces of land that he doesn't even grow because it doesn't pay off. But a customer will come from the city and buy it with good money, and with that money a farmer can buy a few hectares of better land. And we're denying the farmer the opportunity to decide that. I think for today... As I know life, it may take a few more years to work on the agricultural system law, so I think it would be modest to make amends for farmers and would allow for calming the moods in the countryside if we could at least set a threshold where the farmer could freely decide on the sale of agricultural land to a surface of up to 2 hectares, as is said to be 2 hectares in the case of the stock. Let me make two amendments here, almost identical. In one amendment I propose a record: agricultural parcels with an area of up to 2 hectares. And in the second one, it's up to one ha. But I think 2 ha is the minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u386	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It's serious. We have to wear glasses. I'm going to start by saying that we're being harassed by some complexes, we have phobias, and as a result we already have 3 or even 4 laws that we want to drown out. They're very fake. We had a period when everyone was crazy, couldn't say three sentences without saying the shale gas we knew about. All you had to do was go to AGH to Cracow. He's not in Poland. [[There it is.]] It is, but we know what form it is. The second thing is refugees. Well, if it had thought so well, after drinking a glass of cold water, it would have been known that even if they came to Europe, the probability that they would come to us is close to zero. But we all almost didn't sleep because they were gonna invade us, and they're gonna run us over, and we don't know what they're gonna do to us. And I don't know if any of them showed up at all. And if so, it was a margin, which is, according to probability, zero. And another problem: land. I have already mentioned here, and I think I will support this thesis that the Poles bought more land in Germany than the Germans bought from us. And we're still shaking and watching behind us if there's a German, a French or an Englishman coming to buy our land. And this land, just like my previous speaker said. When we move around the country, we see it. It's pretty much a setback. And this despite the fact that there are subsidies that maintain the state of use of course yes. So... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you'll excuse me, gentlemen... [[I'm sorry. I have a request to transfer these louder conversations to cockroaches. You're welcome, Senator.]] Thank you. I'll continue. That's something to think about. Maybe one day, Mr. Marshal, we could have an hour-long discussion about our phobias, because they're deep in us, and they're artificial problems. We're wasting energy, time, and we could do something else. We can't hear about industry, we can't hear about production, we can't hear about production, but we still have these things. And I'm moving on to other things. I've lived a nice few dozen years in this world, and one of my first memories is something that I thought I'd never come across again, and it was the property of my grandparents. I was 5 or 6 years old, or maybe even about 4 years old, but I remember exactly how they came to excrete from the land that grandparents owned, two farms; then a third was made. And the impression of what was left of those years is unforgettable in my memory until today. And why am I referring to this? It's about something that we're talking about today, and that's one thing that's come up: the limitation that you can feel in the air, the limitation of ownership to the ground. And the title to land means not only that it is mine, but it is also a matter of disposal. This is what generations fought against the invaders. And then there's something in some new form that threatens it. And the first thing that came to my consciousness today is to compare it to what I remember when a group of representatives came home with briefcases with such flaps fastened with a kind of flash... They spread out in the table room and kindly asked, " What part of Grandpa agrees to give up voluntarily? ' I hope we don't live to see it again... Now, I'm gonna get down to business... Namely, the Act deals with such a great deal of specific problems that on the side of the tools it offers, there is a huge deficit. What can this deficit do? And above all, it can give you the possibility of any manipulation. The huge power the agricultural agency has... I'll be honest. Even though I wouldn't want to be someone who's crashing here. The director of the agricultural agency seems to me almost like the commissioner at the moment. Well, it could be... If the right of the first-runner has someone who can decide who my property goes to, then let me say this: I will vote for it. I don't mean to be ugly, but I'm going to say no here. And the question of land and family estates, even those of 1.5 ha, which for us, for Polish families are a huge value. We're living in this... I live in the country, I live in the restroom of my grandparents, I have about 4.5 ha left there, and although I reach 130 km to work, that's where I stayed. And that, gentlemen, is an argument for you. And here's the thing. You're giving this bill to someone who's hard to tell, to those gentlemen that I'm calling so much commissioners here. In fact, from that time, which I remember as a child, there is a first time when we will feel threatened by our possession of the earth. I was born in the country and I have a sense of ownership of the land as something of my own, nothing can be ignored. And I think we should think about that. It's saying that we're gonna fix it later, and now something that worked out, because that's how we did it, let's vote it out, it's very dangerous, because human memory is short. It's gonna be a couple of months, it's gonna start to function slowly, there's gonna be huge hiring in the agencies, the agencies are gonna feel... Yeah, well, I just had an example... Recently at an agency in Janów Lubelski almost that I was thrown outside the door, so they can do it. And one more thing. I think everyone's watching. The fact that there are more and more different types of laws that appear here is that they are becoming more and more dimpled. I don't know if it's right to tell me openly what we should do, but the situation is calling for more efficient lawyers to formulate these laws, because that's why there's trouble. Finally, I'm going to give you some interesting information. It was said here that for a few years a land development plan has been drawn up, so I am throwing a card to top it: in Chełm, creating a plan for the development of one district. In which my university has quite a large area on which to this day it cannot build It lasts 14 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u388	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, too, am not part of this group, which thankes the Ministry for preparing this bill. I think this bill is terrible, it's very bad, and it rained in a lot of speeches. In fact, we should be ashamed of such laws, and you should actually apologize for this bill. Why? Because this law violates the basic interests of large groups, a sense of protection of property, a sense of justice, a sense of family security, a sense of security of one's own work, business, etc. It violates the vital, fundamental interests of many social groups, not speculators, as some have said here. I am talking about groups such as local government, entrepreneurs, investors and, above all, farmers. And I would like to protest against this bill that the government should be ashamed of. I am talking about the entire government, because I am wondering that so many amendments and so many words in the discussions that have been made and in the Seym, and today in the Senate hall... well, this indicates that this law in these inter-ministerial arrangements has actually been kind of omitted, not noticed by many other ministers who should have noticed the things that we are paying attention to today. Ladies and gentlemen, many arguments have already been put forward here, and I agree with most of the arguments, and I also agree with a large part of the arguments of Law and Justice, although of course not with all of them. And I would like to say that I will vote in favour of the amendments, and to the appeal of Professor Bobka, Senator Bobka, I will respond negatively. 'Cause I don't want to take responsibility for this bill and vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u390	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many words have already been made here, both from this speaker and during the meeting of the joint committees. And I suspect all senators At least the vast majority They are becoming more and more convinced that this is a law of evil, a terrible one. Even the representatives of the government and the Senators of Law and Justice see that in such a form this law should not be adopted, that it violates the fundamental principles of ownership and not only those principles, as well as the principles of inheritance, and of course it is contrary to the right of ownership, the right of free inheritance within the framework of legal succession. And convincing us that it's actually better to adopt a bad bill now, and in the future to be prepared better, in my opinion, is, well, some, to put it mildly, a misunderstanding. Well, I'm in Parliament, I think I've been in the Senate for over 10 years. And, of course, we are observing the functioning of the laws that we are creating, we are updating these laws, because life brings some suggestions that were not predictable at the time of adoption. It's clear. But the situation here is completely different. Here, at the time of adoption, the situation is that most of us do not see that, so to speak, the right justification. I'm not gonna talk out loud. I would like to highlight the circumstances that I mentioned during the committee meeting, which, at least in the committee's report, were somehow omitted or not recalled. This is a question of contradiction with European Union law. We negotiated a 12-year transition period for foreign land buyers. It ends on May 1st. That's what we know. However, in the Accession Treaty, we committed ourselves to the fact that after this period And here's the quote. In any event, I would stress: "In no case will the citizens of the European Union be treated less favourably in the acquisition of land than they were on the date of the signing of the Accession Treaty. I don't want to defend myself or not... My arguments should not give the impression that I want the citizens of the European Union to buy our land. I would remind you that on the date of the entry into force of the Treaty, EU citizens could acquire land when the Home Minister agreed, such agreement was necessary. And I believe that if such a regulation were to remain, it would not violate the treaty, and our Home Minister would decide that. If there was a suspicion or lack of conviction that the farmer actually... Although we know Western farmers, I know them from my area, there may be few, but some of them function perfectly as farmers, as real farmers, cultivating the land. And if, with careful examination of such a proposal, there are grounds for this, then it is possible to refuse. It's not like the minister doesn't have to give his consent. And we've got business done, we've got clearance. Because the consequences of a violation of the rules can be severe. Poland may become the subject of an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. And it's real. Such a threat is real, the Commission responds to things quite quickly, quite widely. We know that neither the Commission nor the Court have the tools to force a change to the law, but the creation of a bad law can, as a result, impact on our budget, so to speak. And experts warn that the threat of imposing several dozens of millions of euros on Poland seems real and subsidies to our agriculture are also at risk. It's said in the firm's serious opinions. And we heard at the committee meeting that it was said... After all, I am, of course, in favour of making the land mostly to Polish farmers, so that the farmer or the farmer's family can function in a real and modern way not on 5 ha or 4 ha, but often on several hundred hectares. These are the farms in Zachodniopomorskie and they function well. Then indeed the farmer can afford equipment, modernity, in short. Blocking this situation seems unjustified. I mean, talking... Let me give you an example: a farmer who recently took groceries for a notebook has 1.5 million in a briefcase and buys them. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, such a situation immediately gives rise to the nullity of such an agreement from the point of view of civil law. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: How nullity?]] Because the deal is fake. Could be one of two situations. Either she's a fake, because there's no real person who's buying, or the I.R.A. is going to start a lawsuit because it's an undisclosed income, and 70%. values return to the state. There's no other way. Excuse me, but how can a man who had no money before have 1.5 million? He has to prove it. It's pretty obvious to me. You can handle this problem. I can't imagine that such situations could occur with actual control by the agency that sells or controls transactions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are with Senator Grażyna Anna Sztark after hearing many farmers, especially young people, have tabled a number of amendments. Those corrections are here. Of course, there is also a motion to reject the law as far as possible. Because I suspect that this law simply has so many flaws that at this stage it is not possible to correct at the moment. Although we hear that there are also amendments on the part of law and justice. I appeal: simply the problem is important and should be taken seriously In the interests of our country, of course, there is no doubt Only actually according to the law. The point is that we should not later have very serious consequences that can be predicted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u392	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u393	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I've been listening to this discussion all morning. In fact, I was looking for justification in the statements of the Minister, who personally came today to explain the need to amend the bill, but, in fact, I did not find such justification. I am surprised to see how we want to liberalize the rules, how we create the law to make business easier for entrepreneurs. And farming today has also become a means of income, it has become an economic activity. I've made a few notes of all of this, which I think we should once again stress very strongly. And so... this law disproportionately strengthens the state and state property as regards the management of agricultural property. The State is seeking a monopoly on agricultural property ownership. The recognition of ANR is corrupt and creates a field for political corruption. The Minister for Agriculture will decide who ANR can sell state agricultural land during the five-year ban on their sale. This law makes it impossible to freely dispose of land ownership and stiffen the rotation of land, restricts the freedom of economic activity and the principles of the market economy, attaches new farmers to the land, prevents farmers from obtaining funds from selling agricultural land, which are e.g. Inefficient, it prevents the acquisition of agricultural land by most Poles, it also affects people who want to get their lives together outside the urban agglomeration. The Act violates the Accession Treaty, which exposes Poland to another conflict with the European Commission, and the example of today's vote clearly shows that we should avoid such conflicts. I do not know if it is that the minister is in power today, because it is really in his hand that power will be concentrated, because someone who wants to acquire or sell land through agencies will be bound by the decision of the minister who will be able to allow it individually or not to allow it. That hasn't happened yet. For me, it is a strange situation for someone who wants to sell or acquire land to explain or ask for it today, having the civil liberties that democracy gives us. I don't know if this bill is made, for example. because he's jealous of someone who's close to someone from the ministry, for example. The farmer is doing well, buying the land, developing, and someone with jealousy wants to limit it, because it can also be suggested, or the farmer has heirs who are successful, and thus it can be blocked. I don't know about that, sir, because that's the kind of question the Minister didn't want to answer. I also find it strange to see today's trial of a law which is already in its very nature wrong, clearly stated by the Ministry, and the amendments tabled show that it is not refined and that we will correct it. Why do something that's really bullshit, sit here for hours, vote, and then, in a year, two to correct it? For me, this five-year period is a sick idea. What's next, Minister? What about after five years? Are we going to proceed with a new bill, or will the Minister, you or your successor have another idea? And it's important to remember that after five years, the situation can change, because there will be elections. What then? Why are you introducing a five-year period instead of a year, two-year, ten-year period? Maybe we should go back at all, tonight we'll ban the sale of land, not sell houses from tomorrow, because we can buy them, for example. Germans or Dutchers, then cars, let's tie people to what they have, tax them, make a couple of golds for families later, and we'll buy ourselves another election. We're gonna do a closed-money circuit and it's gonna be fun, GDP's gonna go up. Maybe it's a way of life and another election, although I'm against it. Why me or one of my colleagues who would like to invest today, e.g. to the land and would like to be a farmer, would like to grow land, would have to go to the minister, or I, who came from Green Mountain, where there are wonderful vineyards, if I wanted to plant such a vineyard and grow land, I would have to go to the minister as a senator from the Civic Platform and ask for land. [[Oh, that's amazing.]] [[You'll get it.]] I think this request, Minister, will not be heard, although perhaps I am wrong. Why should we introduce such a restriction today? Why, for example? Someone who will come to us, a foreigner who will have the idea to build a processing plant and at 1 thousand, 2,000 ha of land to create something, to remake, above all to give people jobs, to create good, to sell them, to pay taxes, to pay VAT... We're closing the gate today. Today, no one serious will want to think about Polish soil. And if anyone thinks this land is missing, it's wrong. Earth is to be bought in neighbouring countries. It is not as rigorously treated as it is today in Poland. I'm really surprised, I don't know what that's supposed to do. I'm also surprised that your fellow farmers went out on the street, wrote letters, protested. Don't these voices reach the agency building, the ministry? I think they're coming. You do realize that the bill at issue raised a great deal of controversy. If she were so wonderful, if she were so great, no one would be protesting today. And for nine hours, we've been pointing out mistakes. Of course, you accept the amendments that you quickly make, and these are just the amendments of your club. All the amendments of the Civic Platform, as I know life, will be rejected because this is the good change. This is the good change you're making right now, restricting the ownership of the land, the right to freely dispose of, the right to that... if for example. The farmer will want to sell the land to his good friend, of whom he knows that this land will not be destroyed, that this land will grow... Now it's gonna be a roadblock. You will always be the Minister or his presidents of the agency, who will now have unlimited power. [[You used to send the police and the police shot the miners.]] [[I'm asking you to behave...]] I mean, who, Senator? Who's that? [[The Civic Platform.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, for the record, I didn't give you the floor. I'm asking the senator to return to his speech.]] Mr. Marshal, that's how you know this bill is very controversial. Some people can't take the pressure and they let go of their nerves. [[You have to be objective.]] It's not nice to say that, especially since this comparison is very ugly, Mr. Senator. And you're a decent man... [[But it's true. That's the truth.]] ...I know because I know you. That's not true. If that's true, go to court. I think today maybe it'll be easier to get a conviction because you're already sentenceing some people to different punishments. At least in my speech, today or yesterday or the day before yesterday... Because that's what I've heard, about judgment, about punishment, and about guilt. [[But if it's the fault, then...]] But you did it because you threw me off balance. But actually, what I was gonna say was, I already said it. Of course, I'm not voting for this bill, I'm gonna be completely... And I will follow the fate of land ownership. I'm surprised you're making such a bill, I'm really surprised that you're blocking that there's going to be a land today for yours and prices for yours. 'Cause that's what all this is gonna bring down to. Because free trade gives economic freedom, and economic freedom gives a price that is market. And this is the only way to get a market price through supply. Otherwise, we'll go back and have statutory prices or ministerial prices. And let's hope it's not that in Janów horses die behind their former CEO, and here farmers will die for their land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u394	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, something happened that was hard to predict. Members of the Law and Justice... Excuse me, senators. Because MPs don't. The Senators of Law and Justice have tabled more amendments than the opposition. [[We're normal.]] This shows that the objections to this bill are serious. Gentlemen, Senators Bobko, Łyczak... Senator Silence has also tabled amendments. And a whole bunch of Senators from Law and Justice. For me, of course, the most dramatic was the speech of the Member State senator, because it was the voice of the man whom this law directly affects. I don't, I don't have an acres, I'm not gonna buy them, and I'm not gonna sell them either. This bill doesn't apply to me. But people like Mr. Senator Bonkowski, people in Kashubach, where in fact there are areas of the fifth and sixth classes, lakes, stones, gravel, sands... And these people, on these difficult lands, had a chance to build something positive for themselves, agrotourism, buy machines, etc. Now, if someone didn't make it, they wouldn't have a chance. What is now being proposed and introduced by this law is as if the government and ministry saw only one thing, one scope, and that's all they did: blocking sales to foreigners, and the rest of them don't care. I don't care. And this bill, I was talking about, is a system act. And you have to look at the whole thing. You're making a bill that we don't know exactly how it's gonna work in detail. It includes not only arable land, but also fish ponds and lakes, but also under glass. Is this land off? That's a problem. That's the problem. This is a much bigger problem. And you're introducing the rule that you're giving full, extraordinary power to the agency. We've been gone for many years from different permits, administrative decisions, because we all know The less decisions of this kind, the less risk of corruption. And here you introduce the rule that the head of the agency is a god and a tsar: either he will or he won't. What's gonna happen about that? How's that gonna work? He'll give a friend, and a man he doesn't know or dislike won't. And who's gonna settle it? What are the rules governing such decisions? These are completely voluntary decisions. There's a possibility of appeal, of course. It is possible to appeal to the minister, but the minister is the head of the agency. If the head of the agency makes a decision, what will the minister do? If it is obvious, it is clear that there are some constellations and crimes, it will be involved, but above all, it will be based on the opinion of the head of the agency. It's very dangerous. This is a limitation on the farmer's ability to trade the land, to sell the land. This is a farmer's assignment to the ground. It's not only that he won't be able to sell, he'll just have to sit there and host. This is a terrible situation. Finally, I believe that this law is contrary to Annex XII to the Treaty. You don't respond to this as if it didn't work at all. And it is clearly stated: at the end of this 12-year limit, the conditions of sale to foreigners within the European Union cannot be worsened. And it's clear to me that it makes the conditions worse, so he's breaking the rule. Our agreement to enter the European Union provided for a certain symmetry. We wanted to protect... not so much as to protect the introduction of a period when the sale of land, due to price differences in the European Union, will be limited for 12 years. Others introduced a reduction in the inflow of workers from Poland. 5 years, 7 years. It was a certain symmetry. They talked about it, discussed it, and it was treated on the basis of symmetry. Now we're breaking that symmetry and we think everything's okay. We break the principle of equality against the law, the constitutional principle of equality against the law, we break the principle of inheritance, the eternal principle of inheritance, because we limit this inheritance. We break the principle of freedom to own our property, and we think everything's okay. No, I don't think so. After these votes, also the Senators of the PiS, I conclude that for some of you this is not a law that creates no problems. This bill deals with one thing and creates a whole range of new problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u396	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am not used to taking the floor for the second time in debates, but I have been forced to do so by many of my speakers who, with stubbornness worthy of a better cause, say something false. Ladies and gentlemen, where do you see a violation of the sacred rule of inheritance? Because I don't see it. After all, only all these restrictions on inheritance are clear. You read exactly the text of the bill, and then you will come to the same conclusion as I do: the principle of inheritance is not violated here in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, this is clear from the wording of the relevant articles. Only the principle of will inheritance is slightly modified, because the possibility of repurchase is introduced here, but only in the case where the heir of the will is a non-farmer. In the case of a farmer, the possibility of this interference is excluded. Well, ladies and gentlemen, and a non-farmer because we have adopted a general principle consistent with all these principles in European Union law, that certain qualifications are required to run a farm. Hence we assume that, in principle, it is the farmer who should run the farm. The earth is, so to speak, unique, and hence it should not be the subject of speculation, but the object of agricultural use. This form of land use is best provided by the farmer, not by anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, let's watch our mouths and not throw words into the wind. As I say, the principle of inheritance does not suffer any violation here. And where there is a small limitation in the inheritance of the will, it is only on the basis of the introduction of the right of repurchase. This person may inherit, but if he is not a farmer, he must consider that the land he inherited may be redeemed. This is only one limitation based on the assumption that the land should be grown by farmers, should not be the subject of speculation, set-aside, etc. It's worth remembering. That's where I let myself speak again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u398	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u399	I'm short. I would like to address Mrs Zdrojewska, Mr Zientarski, Dowhan... I can't believe you guys have practically no moral right to criticize this bill because it's because of you guys... You were eight and you didn't. I speak now as a farmer, a man living in the country. I really regret that you didn't make this bill, and now you're criticizing it. Nevertheless, you have had some revelation; better late than never. And now you're declaring that she won't vote for this bill. We have no other choice. You're the ones who put us in a situation where we have a knife on our throats. We need to introduce this law because it will turn out that in May these hundreds of thousands of hectares bought by so-called. The poles will go into foreign, non-Polish hands. You've made a contribution to this. Nevertheless, I appeal to you, you have the Gospel... you have a chance to improve. Support this law, or at least support these amendments. I appeal to the senators to support the amendment I tabled concerning these 2 ha, to at least stop the anger and bitterness of the people in the country. They're just humiliated. 'Cause how could that be? For 26 years of this so-called. The church was acquitted of democracy, various religious unions were acquitted, and the Polish farmer is still a grandfather, a parishioner on his own land, in his own country. The Polish farmer still cannot own his land, and the church can still acquire land, relationships can buy land. I understand that you can make a donation, that I have the right to give the land to the church, I don't forbid it, but I think those who might have done so have done so, so now to let them buy the land... You can spare a church, but for religious unions where 100 people sign... And then foreign people on Polish soil are to be patronized, and the farmer cannot be patronized. Sometimes I wonder what country I live in, since in my country, in my homeland, a Pole Or even from the city, or even from the city... He won't be able to buy at least 1 ha, 2 ha of land. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u400	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u401	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to clarify two points. The question of these mythical several hundred thousand acres... This is a remark to senator Łuczak who commented on it. I'm from West Pomerania and I conduct a public survey every day because I treat farmers. The truth was, when it comes to the supposed buying out of the poles, it's big farmers. The one who ran for Senate and lost to Senator Napieralski They claimed that the poles bought the land, and in fact, like the auctions, large farmers set them up. When he wanted to sign up, our compatriot, a colleague, would come and say something like this: "Stop meddling in business, because we're gonna burn the tractor or something like that. At first, the Archbishop, when these criminals were arrested, set up a committee to defend the victims, but when he saw the transcripts of the conversation wiretap, the committee quickly ceased its activities. That was the truth. We haven't heard for a moment here how much land is actually in the hands of foreigners. I think it's less than expected. As for Senator B Member, I think there's some confusion, Senator. Because if the amendments that they report are accepted... For the first time since I'm a senator, both sides of the political scene have basically tabled the same amendments. If these amendments are adopted by the Legislative Commission and later by the honourable States of the Senators, this law is likely to be adopted. And we'll send her back to the Sejm, of course. But it would be weird if we tabled a number of amendments and then at the meeting of the Legislative Commission someone would say, let's vote without amendments! And we would have voted in favour of this bill without taking into account the amendments. Well, that would be a little paradoxical. I declare that if the amendments, including the amendments by the Member State senator, are accepted, I will have no reason to vote in favour of this law, under all the circumstances of time, etc. Thank you very much. [[We'll hold you to that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u402	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? I'm listening. [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal.]] Then please turn on the microphone. [[It's on. But...]] All right, let's go to the pep talker.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u403	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm in correction mode. You misjudged my statement, I suspect, from Senator B Member. I didn't say anything about pillars in my speech when I spoke. But what I'm saying is... [[Voice from the room: The Lord spoke of the victims.]] But what I'm trying to say is that I fully subscribe to what Mr. Bonkowski said. We don't know. # It's just time to show # How much land do they have, these so-called. poles. It's only time to show how many a thousand acres it is. These messages will see the light of day. So much for corrigendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u404	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u405	I allow myself to speak, although today I had the opportunity to stand by this speaker for a long time and answer questions. Some of my personal opinions have already fallen because my colleagues, the senators, wanted to hear more, even at the committee meeting. But I must also refer to some of the comments that have been made here. What hurts me most is that someone in their own country is trying to talk and lecture from the speaker that the European Union is going to harass us here, that the European Union is going to complain that we are going to pay penalties and maybe even deprive us of payments to farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, let's respect our country. We are self-government, law-abiding and we are here to monitor Polish reporting as best as possible for Polish citizens and to negotiate with the European Union the issues of certain solutions that harm not only Poles, but also other countries that later entered the European Union, those countries where legislation is unequal. I have already mentioned this from this speaker, but I will repeat this once again that last year we met at the invitation of a colleague of the Hungarian Committee on Agriculture with colleagues from different countries I was there, former colleague of Krzysiek Ardanowski We agreed that the legislation could not be unequal in terms of land trading, that we would work together to establish one legislation in the European Union, so that there would be no harassment of countries which later entered the Union when others had certain rights. And that is our role: to investigate the same rights with the European Union. Just like the English do. They demand certain things, and they get it. I asked, during the protest, it was our postulate: extend the moratorium by five years. What was the Prime Minister's response? No. What was the answer? No, because the Commission doesn't... But other countries have extended the moratorium by three years. So I'm asking. : What is this, other countries could report it and get permission to extend the moratorium by 3 years on not selling land and we didn't? Well, we didn't even want to talk about it. Law and Justice made a decision, said It is in the documents of the Committee on Agriculture, the one with President Jurgel. We want to stop the sale of land. And it was promoted. But there was Minister Plocke's answer: no, because it will lead to an additional increase in the prices of the land, and that cannot be so. And today you are speaking in a completely different voice than you were then. So let us decide whether we really need the market law that we are defining here, as much as we need legislation that is comparable to EU legislation, European legislation, which the Union has already adopted for a long time, not that which is now being introduced in countries such as Hungary, Romania, Slovakia, Lithuania and other countries that are now introducing it. The point is that we should work together on this common position, because we are a full member of the European Union, as are the other countries, so it is important that we have the same rights. And let's keep an eye on that. Let us not complain here alone, from this speaker, that we will be punished, because we have our rights, and we should fight for these rights and pursue them. We're talking phobias. Well, phobia, ladies and gentlemen, is not the 1920 law. After all, the 1920 law was a law that our grandparents created. You could say that, couldn't you? Who recognized and knew what it means to deprive the territory of the Republic of Poland. And this bill still applies today, and it hasn't been terminated. I can hear from Senator Ziientarski's mouth. ♪ It's like I'm locked up in here ♪ After all, it is possible to make decisions by the Ministry of the Interior. But it's the treaty that immediately endures... After all, this document is being abolished, after all, the Ministry will not be able to issue a decision to the members of the European Union at this moment, whether or not... That's what you said. That's what I heard. I mean, it's right now... We hate it in this bill. This will apply to countries outside the European Union. The 1920 law will continue to apply to these countries. I understood your statement so well that you say that the Ministry can make decisions. It will make decisions, but when it comes to countries outside the European Union. Otherwise it cannot, because the treaty automatically deletes this possibility, otherwise we would violate That's exactly what the marshal said. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. But, yeah, it's... Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think so, because there's this record that says... There's a lot of stuff here you've been picking up. I wouldn't want to refer to everyone. But with these phobias... really, Mr. Senator, a little slower with these phobias. It's not a phobia. This is the reality of our fathers who were afraid, and Poles, knowing history, still have the right to fear. Even if we secure something out of caution, nothing bad will happen if out of caution... And it's always worth considering whether it's safe to even tighten the rules. Someone says we make that law here. I'll say one thing. I discussed 129 days with the farmers in a green town. I asked them, do you want SAFER?? But everyone was screaming: SAFER, SAFER! I explained to them what SAFER was all about: I want you to know that French farmers used to be happy, and then they got mad at SAFER because it limited them... And the farmers themselves said, "Okay, let's limit these rights so that we can feel like hosts in our own country." We now have an agency that hasn't been set up. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not like we're calling this agency now. After all, in 2003 a law was passed which gave the right to control land trading. That's what's going on. It's not in this bill that we write down... Of course, you have a grudge against us that this law is now as restrictive as the previous one. But I'd like to remind my colleagues who were in their previous term of office... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] I mean, that's when you're here. In this Parliament, we also had a rather large discussion in this House. Let us recall how many amendments have been tabled by the House. Do you remember how many of these amendments were there? I remember... I remember when we voted against here, and you were abolishing the concept of an individual farmer. The words of the individual farmer were deleted in that senate version. I was the rapporteur in the Seym and had to translate, but I also said my personal opinion that I disagreed. You allowed the words of the individual farmer to be deleted, and then you said... And today we attribute the words of the individual farmer... The Sejm then rejected these amendments of the Senate... Ladies and gentlemen, the dry-haired farmers did not leave on the bill, which was passed by everyone, from opposition to coalition. Everyone in the Seym and later in the Senate voted in favour of the amendment act. Why did they vote like that? Because the election was, literally, an election. It was August, so there was gonna be an election in a minute. Who dares to vote against a peasant? Everyone voted together... Now there's no election, and you say no, we're going to vote differently now because none of the voters are standing over us. I'm the one who's asking if the bill that was criticized at the time... Let me remind you of the notaries. The notaries of the dry thread did not leave on the bill of August 5th. I mean, it was the most criticized thing. How much expertise was there? The dry thread was not left on it, it was said that this law could not be implemented. And the law of priority, the neighborhood's first purchase? What was the criticism of this neighborhood's first purchase? And this is in this act of August 5th. This notarial mess, which cannot be realized, is in the act of August 5th. And if we do not adopt this amendment, that is, we do not decide to delete that law, then from 1 May the act of 5 August will be in force. Do we want to have the right that farmers criticized so much that lawyers criticized that they didn't leave a dry thread on? Because there was an election, they all voted beautifully. After all, who would dare to stand up against a farmer and say that he does not want to defend Polish land? And today is the hour of honesty. There's no choice. So let us consider whether there is real danger or not. Here's what I'm gonna say. Maybe prophetically, maybe not, but I predict... I see what's going on in the world. Today, international corporations decide. Please note what is happening in countries such as Brazil, Argentina, the United States that large farms are being built. Do you not see that today farmers are being accused by corporations... It's because of them that there's a lack of income in agriculture. It's not like the government decides here today, it's the international corporations who decide. Not only do they decide who owns the land, but they decide whether whoever produces the land will have income. They're taking over the processing industry right now, trading, everything. And they force farmers to get rid of the land. We have to make sure these corporations don't come to us. Not only in the economic industry, but also here, because today there have been various, you can say, corporations trading in land, which today, thinking that they will be able to buy land... On the basis of that law, they would function and the farmer would have nothing to say. I am therefore pleased that the government has noticed the voice of farmers, that it has given priority to the acquisition of land to individual farmers and that it has provided the most important things. The point is that the main provision of the article will be implemented. 23 Basic Law, according to which the agricultural system is based on a family farm. Besides, the Minister has also announced that there will be an amendment... I'm sorry, I'm not talking about the amendment anymore. A new law on the agricultural system will be drawn up. And this, as I understand it, will cover all matters of the broadly understood agricultural system. Today's amendment also falls within the scope of the Agricultural System Act, but it speaks more about turnover and not about the agricultural system. And I expect from the Minister here, from the government, that the real agricultural system law, which will show what is the agricultural system in Poland, will be prepared as soon as possible. [[Time's up.]] The point is not to be afraid of international corporations so that we can feel safe as farmers and host. Really, farmers feel limitations, they know there are limitations. They really know that. For them, the greater value is that they want to be Poles, that they want to host here and that they are not removed from this land by economic and legal systems. Therefore, please, if you have the courage, vote now just as you voted before the elections; vote for the farmers, for this is a law for farmers. Mr. Marshal talked about $6 million, said it was for $6 million. Maybe it's not $6 million, maybe less. In any case, this law is for those who want to host Polish land, who want to feed Polish citizens and want to export, want to send out this wonderful, good food, not be in corporations that in a few years... [[Time's up.]] ...how others will want to pursue an international policy here, a global policy that is really threatening... Europe must defend itself against this corporateism, otherwise there will be no way to keep family farms here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u406	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ambrozik and Senator Ryszka have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Senator Kleina, Mr Zientarski, Mr Klich, Mr Libicki, Mr Borusewicz, Mr Błaszczyk, Mr Pęk, Mr Chróścikowski, Mr Dobrzyński, Senator Łuczak, Mr Żaryn, Mr Jackowski, Mr Piechot, Mr Stanisławek, Senator Budner, Mr Cichoń, Senator Łyczak, Senator Staroń, Mr Czerwiński, Senator Mamytkow, Mr Obremski, Senator Senator Szymanski, Mr Senator Senator Senator Florek, Senator Rotnicka, Senator Bonkowski with a group of senators. The discussion is closed. [[The Minister wants to speak.]] Mr. Senator, allow me to conduct my deliberations. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this debate. We still have a vote ahead of us, so that when we examine the amendments, we will jointly assess the quality of these amendments. Thank you all again for the discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u408	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. There was planned a break after this point and a vote on this point, but the legislators need a little time to prepare the materials for the committee meeting. We will therefore process the next items on the agenda at this time in order to give time to committees to prepare for the committee meeting. Dear Senators, I propose that the agenda items of this sitting be re-examined. We will now proceed with the examination of the third point: the Act amending the Act of the Teacher Charter and some other laws. Next, I propose to consider point six: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of Józef Czapski. After the second reading of the draft resolution, we will proceed with the review of the second paragraph: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Points 4 and 5 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Ombudsman and certain other laws; the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws, we will consider on the second day of the sitting, i.e. Next week, April 20th. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[I'm sorry, I didn't hear you, Mr. Marshal... about pills for seniors, in short, when will that be?]] One more time: Now we're gonna go... [[Now Czapski, right?]] Now the Teacher's Charter, then the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the memory of Józef Czapski, then the law on amending the Act on healthcare services financed by public funds... [[Oh, today.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Thank you very much.]] In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act of the Teacher Card and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 117 and the report of the Commission In prints No 117 A and 117 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u409	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! I am very pleased to be able to present to you the report of the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport held on 5 April 2016. The meeting of the committee concerned the examination of the Law on the amendment of the Act of the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. At the meeting they were present, among others. Deputy Minister of National Education, Mrs Marzenna Drab, together with colleagues from the Ministry of National Education, specialist at the Office of the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, Mrs Jolanta Różycka, and Vice President of the Polish Teachers' Association, Mr Krzysztof Baszczyński. The main amendments to the Act in question concern: liquidation of hours with Article. 42, so-called. card hours; extension of the requirement of non-punishment to all teachers, regardless of their place of employment; strengthening the safety of children also in non-public schools; regulation of the fundamental issues of disciplinary proceedings for teachers at the level of the law; regulation of gratification for teachers who have obtained the title of honorary professor of education and the creation of a central register of disciplinary decisions of teachers, which serve inter alia. the implementation of obligations under the Law of 22 December 2015 on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The content of this law is contained in the Journal of the Laws of 2016, item. 65. It is a law which requires the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union to provide information on persons who have lost their right to pursue the occupations related to the education of minors. I would like to point out that, in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, the law does not raise any legislative objections. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u410	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Mikołajczyk has actually summarised the fundamental changes to the amendment of this law, so I will confine myself to a brief report on the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which took place on 6 April. The committee was attended by representatives of the Polish Teachers Association, the Office of the Ombudsman of Children's Rights, the Polish Districts Association and of course representatives of the Ministry of National Education headed by Minister Wargocka. The Commission has carefully examined the text of the proposed amendment. She also listened to the opinions of the representatives of the Ministry, as well as the representatives of the institutions and trade unions who came to the meeting. The comments we heard during the committee's meeting concerned, among others. the fact that it makes the working time of teachers more flexible As stated in the explanatory memorandum attached to the amendment of the Act, it may lead to the resignation of certain schools from additional classes due to savings. Such comments were made by a representative of the Polish County Association. The Ombudsman's Office requested that the provision concerning the way in which minors are interrogated be amended, i.e. persons who were under the age of 18 on the day of the hearing. In disciplinary proceedings, in particular, the way in which hearings are recorded in the form of recordings. The representatives of trade unions, the Polish Teachers' Association, have responded positively to the amendment of the law, although they have also paid attention to the problem of flexibility of working time, which may in practice mean interpretation freedom. The Commission has adopted the proposed amendment without comments and recommends that the High House adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u412	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u413	Gentlemen of the Senators, the ratio of legis of this law was probably discussed in detail. Please tell us what the students will benefit in particular from the fact that teachers will be exempt from the obligation to work for pupils in the same dimension that has been in force so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u414	Thank you very much. The question is, which of the rapporteurs? [[Both.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u415	We'll share. Mr. Senator, this bill applies to teachers, it's the Teacher's Card... [[No, sir, it concerns children.]] ...not students. But for the sake of clarity, the provision that is proposed in this law is a record that existed before 1 September 2009 and in schools there were various extracurricular activities, extracurricular activities. From the classes of interest circles to the classes of equal learning opportunities, to the classes of preparation for Olympics and competitions. So that we discussed it. As a former teacher and principal of the school, I raised some questions. I was a director when this record didn't work and there were extracurricular activities, and then the record was introduced. It caused many mutinies among teachers, because the government of Platform and PSL forced teachers It's so neat. And he raised his salary by 2 hours in junior high and primary school, and by 1 hour in upper secondary school. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Unfortunately, I didn't get the answer. What will the students gain from this change?]] I mean, I'm going to refer again to the fact that I'm convinced that the classes are going to take place, this time I'm sure it's a class tailored to the needs of the students. And so far it has often been so, sir, that these hours of art. Forty-two were devoted to the activities of the classroom, although the host body is obliged to provide them and pay the teacher of the common room. Unfortunately, in many leading bodies... I also say this as a former trainer because I conducted training courses for many training companies in Poland. The teachers often claimed that the governing body or the principal of the school forced them to carry out these 2 hours as part of the classroom classes. So there were no extracurricular activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u416	Does the senator want to make up for it, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u417	I wouldn't want Senator Augustine to take offense to me. He said that he asked both rapporteurs the question. Let me say this: I have taken note of the most important issues concerning the amendment of this provision from the justification, as well as what the representatives of the Ministry said at the meeting of our committee. First of all, it was pointed out that the liquidation of these so-called ones. card hours will rationalise the working time of teachers and adapt them to specific needs in a specific educational institution, i.e. a specific school. Besides, it rebureaucratizes the working time of the teacher. The irrationality of this solution has been demonstrated in recent years. The current rules have also caused a sense of deep injustice due to the application of the distinction, because I will remind you that 2 hours so-called. Cards were valid in primary and secondary schools and 1 hour in the case of upper secondary schools and special schools. This imposed rigid number of hours did not correspond to the actual needs of the school concerned, and the record regarding the obligation to conduct classroom classes caused controversy and did not enrich the school's educational offer. During the committee meeting, we asked the Minister how the implementation of this provision was monitored by the Ministry of National Education. We have learned that ORE, the Centre for Education Development If I recall developing this shortcut He monitored and conducted studies that did not give rise to any knowledge that these hours would actually have a positive effect on children's development, bringing some intellectual benefit to children attending these classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u418	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Rapporteurs, If I understand correctly, we simply end up with fiction by amending this law, with something that was only on paper, but in fact did not have a major impact on contact with the child and the development of educational activities. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u420	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u421	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! That's exactly what I'm going to talk about in the discussion, about the fiction that took place after this entry was introduced in the Teacher Card Act. In response to Senator Augustine, I would like to point out that 47% additional classes were carried out within the framework of card hours, while the other classes were classes which took place in the form of various European projects, but the remaining ones were recreational activities. That's one thing. And the other, I think, is an important thing. The Ministry of National Education conducted a survey in 2015 which shows that abuse in terms of the use of these hours in the article. Forty-two, as many as 43% were involved. cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u422	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u423	Thank you. I was asked a question because of the question that had just been asked. Is that true? That's what I read in the materials. And we're running away from bureaucracy that if there's extracurricular activities, then the teacher's still gonna have to record them, which means he's gonna keep running that bureaucracy in the diary? That's the first question I've had right now. Second question. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask the senator for an answer. This amendment introduces a central register of teachers' disciplinary decisions, where all these data will be introduced, etc., but also introduces changes in the way teachers are congratulated who have received the honorary title of professor of education. It's cost-effective. Are these costs already estimated, and if they are, at what level? Where will you get the money if it wasn't included in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u424	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I'll start by documenting. In fact, in the Polish school we need to move away from bureaucracy, and in the discussion I will also strongly emphasize for the second time. At the moment, the classes that were carried out were recorded in various types of additional journals of extracurricular activities or classes conducted under art. 42, that's what those journals were called. Let me remind you that these classes had to be settled at least during the six-month periods, there was an audit of these classes, whether the teacher had worked out the number of hours specified in the bill. So this accounting, the bureaucracy involved in clearing these hours was pretty big. At this moment, of course, after-school activities and the presence of the student will need to be noted. We must have knowledge in which classes the student was in, in which he participated. So that, of course, the record will be, but it may already be in the journal of classes, in a position involving additional classes, and not in additional documentation, as I said, which was created in connection with the article. 42 and the need to settle this time and control the time it has developed under this Article. That's one thing. Secondly, the creation of a central register, which the senator is asking about, is also related to the implementation of the EU directive. Like I said before, it goes on, among other things. to verify that the European Union has the results of the verification of teachers and know which teachers in Poland, suppose, have been convicted and not admitted to work, because they can go abroad and try to work there, but now they will be in this database. With regard to the means and honorary title of the professor of education, I am very pleased, Senator, that at this moment it is strongly emphasized in the context of gratification, and that the funds are specified in the Teacher's Charter Act. Unfortunately, so far there have been no such measures, they were very often Somewhere collected under various ministerial paragraphs, they were looking for resources to gratify these very good teachers. In Poland we have many wonderful teachers and they deserve this title. This is the highest title in terms of the degrees of teacher promotion. At the moment, at the level of the Act, it is written that every year it will be up to PLN 450,000. These funds are secured by the Ministry's budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u426	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u427	Mr. Senator, I'd like to hear confirmation or dementia. One of my fellow teachers, referring to this project, said: the whole difference will be that now the director will be able to tell me, as if outside the law, to carry out additional activities; in fact, in our situation it will not change much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u428	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u429	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'll answer that. A very good teacher wouldn't think about it and quote... The one who comes to education with passion is not afraid that he will have to do extracurricular activities for the students. He doesn't have to because he wants to. Yes? For several years, I was a teacher at various schools and I enjoyed doing a lot of cool extracurricular activities for students. The director is a manager and is to be a manager, has various types of tools motivating the teacher to work. I am convinced that as it was before 1 September 2009, because until then I will refer, teachers themselves will come out with an initiative of additional activities and will lead them. A good director is one who distributes funds to motivate teachers differently. It can't be that the director is separating everything equally or every once in a while, he's gonna get the Director's award because that's how he gets out of the assignment. A good manager, a 24-hour director will manage these resources to motivate and reward those teachers who want to do a lot of extra interesting activities for students. Besides, Mr. Senator, we still have the teacher's promotion system, a few degrees of this promotion. I am convinced that these teachers will be conducting these classes as part of the implementation of the provisions of the Teachers' Professional Promotion Regulation. Later, in the conclusion of this career promotion path, they will have to show it. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, just to clarify... I understand that the senator confirms that the director will have that right.]] Mr. Senator, we're talking about the teacher's 40-hour penny. Pensum teaching hours are regulated in the Teacher's Charter. Before that, there were two hours in primary school and middle school within the so-called card hours. I mean, the principal could've done it before. ♪ Now maybe too ♪ It should be indicated that additional activities should be carried out within a 40-hour working week as part of the performance of statutory tasks. It wasn't done. I've got a feeling. And I've heard voices like that, too. It is very often that these are environments or media conducive to the recordings that are taking place. That's how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u430	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u431	Thank you very much, Marshal. So far, I thought I understood everything, and right now, somehow... Tell me if this penny was included in the so-called card hours. Yes or no? To the teacher's penny, to a 40-hour week's work. Were they included? [[In the 40-hour week of work, there were card hours, yes.]] Yes. And it wasn't clearly defined what the teacher was supposed to do then. It was meant to be hours, I don't know, to educate, to compensate for any lack of knowledge, etc. Okay, let me get this straight. [[Senator, exactly...]] But it wasn't done. Yes? And in many schools it was that the teacher under these two hours was in the care of the day care... [[Yes.]] ...so he didn't do what he was supposed to do. He wasn't educational, he was just babysitting for example. [[He was caring.]] It's caring. But in this room, he could also implement this element... what's the difference right now? What's going to happen to those so-called card hours? And what's this motivational supplement gonna be? Is he gonna be over 40 hours a week... [[Here's the change...]] ...or for what you do within the so-called. past card hours, and now so unnamed? It will be shared by the director, but depending on what? From the effects? Because I'm sure it was often that the director, not wanting to have problems, divided this incentive allowance equally into all teachers. So please show this additional value as a result of the change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u432	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u433	Let me repeat: the record, which is still functioning, says that here is the teacher to carry out exactly what I will quote. Other activities and activities resulting from the statutory tasks of the school, including caring and educational activities taking into account the needs and interests of the students, except that in the course of these classes... And that's where the hours are. Yes? That, of course, includes a 40-hour week's work, Senator. Unfortunately, very often And I'm gonna do it again. These hours were used so that the teacher was not employed in the school in the daycare center, which the principal should hire, only the daycare was provided by various teachers, many teachers, using these very hours. Yes? And that's how it worked. Of course, many other activities, including educational, educational, various artistic, musical activities, can also be performed as part of community service. But it should be done in my opinion by a teacher who is employed as a teacher in a classroom, with a certain penny. [[And that's what the director should have predicted...]] Measures, yes. [[...the money to pay for it.]] Yes, yes, of course. [[And a teacher with card hours is supposed to do it outside the classroom.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u434	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u435	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have one more question. Will teachers work additionally as part of their statutory classes, free of charge, or will they not work, which means that there are no extra hours for students?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u436	Mr. Senator, they were working for free at the moment, because those two hours were imposed... [[Within 40 hours of work...]] ...or one hour. So, if we're going with this line of thinking that Senator Augustine's talking about right now, within a 40-hour penny... [[That's free.]] ...teachers will do just as they did before 1 September 2009. I am convinced of this because we have really great teachers. Other activities and activities resulting from the statutory tasks of the school.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u437	Thank you. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senators rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Marzenna Drab, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to thank you for this discussion, which has already taken place here during the presentation of the positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is mostly an environment response. Not all of it, of course, but at least some of the environment. And to deal with certain matters, to name them. Here I'll refer to the card hours. Of course, as the senator explained, today it was imposed in advance: whether the children were in the nursery or not, the teacher had to fill out some cards and do a report every six months. Today, ladies and gentlemen, And I'm confirming that. The director should be the manager, the director should manage the finances, the working time, the director should indicate where and what is needed. The initiative is also on the side of teachers who want to do additional classes, and it is not to watch the children in the classroom and see if the child draws well, just to devote themselves to such activities. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, the statement that the director, in order to be calm, gave everyone 80 PLN or 100 PLN of motivational supplement... Ladies and gentlemen, no. We should pay, motivate and influence to simply improve the quality of teaching in our schools. This is also the tool that directors had before 1 September 2009 and to which we are returning. So that I want to reassure your senators here that it will all be for the benefit of teachers and, above all, for children. Because they're really the most important ones here. I think that the changes we propose in addition to this article. 42, those concerning the register in which any penalties imposed on teachers will be placed... This is indeed the execution of a judgment and the implementation of EU law, but above all it is the safety of children. Because the teacher on whom the most severe penalties will be imposed should, of course, not work at his school or at any other school should not work at any school in the European Union. So we're thinking about the student's safety here. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is... There are also debates, voivodship debates, on the changes that society would like to have with the Ministry. In addition, expert debates are held at the Ministry of National Education. Let me remind you that more than 2 000 people have submitted to these debates. They are divided thematically. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are opening a very broad discussion on education. Because the truth is, she should care about us all, and she should care about us all. These debates and expert meetings will take place until the end of June. At the end, we will present what direction we will go and what changes we will propose in the future. So once again, I would like to thank you very much for your participation and for your participation in the discussion on education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u439	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u440	Madam Minister, in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, on the occasion of examining the Ombudsman's report, I have raised many times the issue concerning children with special educational needs. I mean children in normal schools, not in centres or having individual teaching. And when this bill was proposed, I was hoping that the good managers that were mentioned here, the directors, would take advantage of the opportunity that they would have at their disposal two hours in junior and primary schools, so that compensatory classes would be far more. Now I take this proposal as a tribute to the teaching community, which wants to have hours to pay, but also a threat to students with special educational needs that they will have fewer classes. Because local governments generally have to pay for education at these levels. My question is this: have you provided additional funding for subsidies so that there is no risk that local governments, as they will not give more money, together with their directors, will lead to a reduction in the number of activities for children with special educational needs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u441	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u442	Mr. Senator, I think we should somehow divide this matter into integration classes and general classes. As far as subsidies are concerned, we are in the process of preparing new scales of subsidies, which we will propose in a moment. And we're going to start introducing them from this September, which is the school year 2016/2017. At this point there are no changes, what is, is functioning until the end of the year, i.e. for part of April, May and June. So that right now I can't tell you what weight it's going to be, what heights it's going to be, and what size it's going to be, because we're still in the process of calculating. A new way of calculating subsidies will be prepared in a moment. Different environments report different needs to us. We lean down with great care. And if that's the case you're talking about, I think in a little while, soon, we'll be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u443	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u444	The Teacher's Charter applies only to schools that are public, run by the State. Schools are known as: Associations avoid the obligation of the tripartite agreement of the Teacher Charter. At the same time, the subsidy is the same and sometimes even higher due to, for example, minorities. Are you expecting any changes in this direction? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzenna Drab: What do we anticipate? Excuse me...]] Changes in the diversity created by the nature of running a school. What else is an association school and a public school. The subsidy is the same and even higher for the association school, while teachers are employed on completely different hourly conditions at association school. This Teacher Card is only for public schools. Are you predicting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u445	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u446	Mr. Senator, if we're talking about a future grant, the answer is similar to that of the senator here just now. Indeed, there are two types of employment. Some teachers, in public schools, are employed on the basis of the Teacher's Charter, while in schools of association and run by other bodies it is normally a contract of employment, and we cannot actually put our hands in there. And if we're talking about subsidies, we don't look at the teacher, the grant goes after the student. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. [[Behind the student, yes.]] [[Yes, but the current situation is that the grant follows the student, but the profits are eliminated by the de facto association schools.]] We know that. We also have it on the table, we're looking at it, and we want to seal the subsidy system. We don't want any pathology. 'Cause we know pathologies are there, too. There are entities where they start classes of 30 people and they end up of 3 people, and indeed local governments pass on this grant that they receive from us because that's what the rules are. We know that, we have such problems, and we are also thinking about it, and we will look very closely at it. Like I said, we'll be able to respond in detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u447	Thank you, Minister. Does anyone else want to ask a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u448	Mrs. Marshal, Minister, I have only a specific question, because this multi-level hiring of teachers starts with an internship, then there is a contract. It does not contain any information in the first part of the job. Because only since the appointment, in the case of a diplomat, is it written that he has Polish citizenship, he can also be a teacher from a Member State of the Union, etc. And it happens that schools are employed, especially for learning foreign languages, people from other continents, who are not... For example, I know that in Łódź we teach Spanish teachers from South America or Portuguese from Brazil. They can only work during their internship, which is for a year, right? Appointments won't be given because they're not EU citizens. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u449	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u450	The senator has already answered his question. Of course, those who are in our teaching system, of course, have been gradually gaining further levels of professional promotion since their internship, and those who do not meet all the conditions, of course, cannot join it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u451	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u452	Minister, I'll go back to those two hours of cards. From the reasons I have heard, it appears that in general they are being eliminated because there was a problem with bureaucracy, with the report. For me, it's a little incomprehensible to have at school where we place, among other things. For computer science, it was a problem. It's a little incomprehensible that due to the justification of these two hours of work per week, there's so much bureaucracy that we have to leave these two hours, we have to do so that they don't exist, because it's too complicated and difficult. But was it not better to limit this bureaucracy, if it was so large, to some simple method of documenting these card hours instead of eliminating those hours? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u453	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u454	Mr. Senator, it's not exactly the most important thing. That's why it sounded here during the previous conversation that, above all, the fact that the two hours were actually bureaucratic, we make it more flexible and free the director from this pre-imposed rigid allocation. It is the director who will decide and in accordance with the teacher's demand will allocate, whether it is 1 hour or 2 hours, not in the classroom just for the preparation of the student, I do not know whether to the Olympics or to sacrifice to another extent. So that there is not only this one element here, there are at least two elements that I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u455	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Professor Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u456	I'd like to continue this topic so I can have a calm conscience. Namely, or the release of card hours, which is, of course... As far as closing down those hours is concerned, it's a good thing it happened. But does the fact that the management will have the opportunity to introduce other duties towards the teacher not give rise to suspicion that it may Of course, with the bad relationship between the teacher's room and the principal's office, the ministry will get rid of a mechanism to prevent potential mobbing? Do teachers have a chance to get a positive signal? The point is, by transferring the powers to the director. 'Cause that's how you de facto move those hours that are potentially exploitable by the director, either in the day room or in some other way. It can be abused by acting as a teacher's room, by passing too many responsibilities on to one teacher's shoulders, and thus another teacher will be the beneficiary, that there will be some injustice bordering on mobbing. Is there such a danger? Why am I asking this? These are the signals I receive in connection with this project from the teachers themselves. I'd really like to have arguments to tell them, don't worry, you'll name the director.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u457	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u458	Mr. Senator, I very deeply believe that such pathology was not and will not be. Of course, a teacher is also a man, but I think the teacher's job is such a special job... [[Service, service.]] ...it's a calling, it's a service. The director is also a teacher, so I don't think there's any pathology in this environment, because it's pathology for me. But I also want to reassure the senator that we are strengthening pedagogical supervision at the moment, and if something like this were to happen, the first steps are to the parole officer, who is really an extension of the minister's hand in the field. So that every signal will definitely be well controlled.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u459	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u460	Minister, a brief question: will the Director, by commissioning an additional job, on new terms, have to include it in the teacher's salary, which is to pay extra for it? I just want to be sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u461	As we have heard here, within a 40-hour week's work, there is such a motivating tool, as I have already mentioned. And it should not be so that everyone is equally and calmly, only this motivating tool should be properly used. And for that there are additional resources that the Director can motivate teachers to want within 1 or 2 hours It will depend on the director to take additional classes with children or with young people. [[But, Minister, will these hours be counted to the penny and paid or not?]] Like I said, it's a 40-hour penny. In addition, there is the possibility of motivating. does not have to be the same as today, that everyone gets 80 PLN, evenly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u462	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Marzenna Drab: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u463	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I recall, in the election campaign, Law and Justice promised to close down the card hours. I'm not sure, but I think I did. and solve the problem of six - and seven-year-olds. And there's been a return to school duty for seven. - not six-year-olds. That's what we talked about during the election campaign. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder... representatives of the Polish County Union... At the meeting of the committee in which I participated, a representative of the Polish County Association said that they . self-governments They're paying schools to donate because the subsidy isn't enough, and that's a lot of money. And he said what they were afraid of after the penny was lifted. I'd just like to remind you because we're reducing the number of six-year-olds in school, we're reducing the salary. That we have 650 000 teachers and about 5 million students in Poland, as I recall. So there are 8 students per teacher at the moment. I also talked about this at the committee meeting. Once, I remember, I had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Brandenburg, who told me: "We, in Brandenburg, have about 14 students per teacher. Remember, when you're with us, don't tell us what it's like for our teachers not to hear. Ladies and gentlemen, if you put one on the other... And now it turns out that these two hours of cards have become a big problem. After all, we all work 40 hours a week. The worker at the construction site or, I don't know, the railwayman at the PKP, everyone has a duty to perform their duties for 40 hours a week. And now these two hours have turned out to be a big problem. Of course, local government officials are afraid that either there will be no extra lessons, or you will have to pay extra for it. The minister says the director is supposed to be a good manager, etc. And it would be great if that were the case, I agree, it would be great if there was enough room at school for teachers to be in it for 40 hours a week, to do different tasks, responsibilities. This is the case in some European and not only European countries, that the teacher is still available to students at school and performs various tasks. Pensum is 18 hours, all right, but the teacher is available at school and working. If he works better, the director should appreciate it and the incentive allowance should be appropriate. But if the penny is 18 hours, and the motivational supplement, the 100 or 200 PLN, is to be in 22 hours, which together gives 40 hours, then it's hard to expect the teacher to get involved for that amount. So it seems to me that this is a serious problem to solve when it comes to teachers, so that they really are more involved in school work. I've heard of one Wuefist. At the committee meeting, I think someone said that. 20 hours in one school, 20 hours in another school... Somehow it turns out you can here, here you can. I don't think that's the way. So it seems to me that the fact that these two hours of cards will be abolished is really no good, the more we know about it. That public schools, associations... Of course, the Teacher Card in public schools causes local governments to run away very often... I myself have dealt with in some towns with the fact that they ran away at all, so that only schools run by associations. There's gonna be a change at the moment. Your parole officer will have a lot to say after the school closures. But it's just a certain escape from what's in force right now. I don't think it's even two extra hours, because these are classes that a teacher should be doing with pleasure, he should go out to a student himself. Not to mention integration, integration schools, etc. He should feel it himself... The point is that the parents of the children, I'm talking about these smaller children, have the opportunity to take the child to school in the morning and pick him up at 3 p.m. or 4 p.m. When they're done working, because not everyone can... This child should have proper care, appropriate activities, or should he be able to do his homework while in school. It seems to me that the direction should be the opposite, that there should be more hours, more tasks. I don't know if the headmaster can do that. The fears that Professor Żaryn had, etc., actually appear. What's it gonna look like, if it's fair... Since there is no obligation, it will be very difficult to carry out such a task to execute these hours within a certain period of time. To sum up... Of course, the other changes that are in this law, i.e. the disciplinary committees, the professor of education, are also very important, and all of this can be agreed with as much as possible. We just still have a problem that this change isn't solving right now. Indeed, we need to think about how to solve this matter in the future, so that we do not throw it all away again on local governments. Of course now, after abolishing these two additional hours that were not actually paid, and now they can be paid, local governments will protest again and believe that this change unfortunately is not beneficial to them, and as always, it turns out that it is the local authorities who will pay for it. There are so many changes at the moment, there are additional costs everywhere, so I do not believe that additional resources could be made for schools, so local governments will again suffer the consequences of the changes you are making. Of course, in this situation, I will vote against change. I think the abolition of these two hours is good, okay, but we should give something in return, and we're not giving anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u464	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! We will all agree that if we want to build our competitive advantage, our future together with Europe based on knowledge, education must, of course, be absolutely fundamental and central in our country. This is the most important investment and no child should be discriminated against at the Polish school. In the meantime, it is not. No one has studied this well, but answer the State and the Minister to the question of whether there is such a class in which children do not go to the next class, they do not get promotion without mastering the material. Don't teachers, teachers, principals know about this? Doesn't the ministry know about this? What are we doing to these kids? What future do we want them to have? Annual schools That's gonna sound ugly. They spit out some pot of these kids on the principle: let it be someone else's trouble. And then we have to teach them from the beginning. Education of a second chance is a concept that makes a career, and a task that costs enormously. However, the truth is that for various reasons we are different from each other. Not everyone is able to control everything, whether it's because they have worse conditions at home, or because they just don't understand. We have friends like that, we have friends like that, we have friends like that. There are such students. And it seems that a fair approach would be such that those whose nature, environment, family gave less, Polish education gave more in the form of compensatory activities. It's about them catching up. This is partly the case in integration classes with disabled children, who have the right to 2 teachers, to be in less numerous classes. And what does a child's right simply be less capable of? For compensatory work. The intention of that change was to contribute to making these compensatory classes more effective in schools. Perhaps those wonderful managers that Mr. Senator said weren't taking that chance. Perhaps under the pressure of local governments that wanted to save money, what used to be done for money was tried to do for free. And that was a dishonest proposal for teachers. It was an attempt to impose an obligation on them without providing additional money. If you wanted to make things right, if there was something to be fixed, Minister, that's what it is. It's a good idea to pay for extracurricular activities, not to be tempted to simply reduce them and try to pretend that it can be pushed into local governments, so maybe they'll pay. Maybe some will pay, but the problem I am talking about here concerns not some schools, not some classes, but the whole Polish education. And that's why I think it's very risky. The minister says we'll think, we'll work. Then I recommend that we do not let a child with special educational needs on this occasion, as it is commonly said, spill with a bath, so that the number of these classes does not decrease. If 47% extracurricular activities were carried out from this system, and I can't imagine that these classes will suddenly be half as low. I am a teacher's family, I have taught myself, so I am not a theorist, and I know that the director on the one hand makes demands, and on the other hand from the teaching group and trade unions is in part dependent on his colleagues will be on the competition committee in a moment. If there was abuse and 43% were found to be There's been abuse... It means that someone was controlling it and working to make it less. You could have gone that way. I recommend that the Minister thinks that the children whose nature, family and environment have given less, the school must give more. It must cost money, but it cannot be done at the expense of teachers or at the expense of local governments. Something important must be done here so that we do not have a situation that children, without mastering the material, pass further degrees of education, and then, at the end of each stage, are lost and do not know much of the individual subjects, especially the more difficult ones. You can't do that. And this is the everyday reality of every class, every school. We must respond to this challenge. You're at the start, the ministry is at the start, the government is at the start. If you could do it. I'm sure you'll be doing a big favor for the kids and the families and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u466	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u467	Dear Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I will begin here with a few words addressed to Senator Augustine. Some leading authorities are paying for after-school activities today. So that depends on the host body. [[Yeah, rich people pay.]] They pay those who appreciate the work of teachers, not always the ones that can afford it. A lot of the organs say she's adding to her education, and they still pay for these after-school classes. As far as classes are concerned, they are certainly needed at the Polish school. They were before 2009, they were in some schools after 2009 and could again be in the course of card lessons, but very often these classes were used for activities in the field of recreational care. And now I'm going to go to the point. I am very pleased that we are dealing with the amendment of the Teacher's Charter Act. The fact that the scope of this amendment is primarily related to the needs of teachers should be strongly emphasised from this speaker. It is also a fulfillment of a certain obligation of law and justice concerning, among others, the liquidation of card hours. It is a government project, a change which was announced in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, delivered on 18 November 2015. This project responds to multiple demands which were directed after 21 November 2008, when the Sejm, the then coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, introduced changes in the article. 42 of the Act. The Teacher's Card. As a teacher and former principal of the school, I must stress that the change caused a lot of controversy at the time. These controversies concerned the sense of its introduction, the idea itself and the question of increasing the bureaucracy at school. The Polish school needs to be redecorated, the bureaucracy in the school is far too much. If the teacher took the time to prepare the documentation, the student and the preparation of the classes, the efficiency of the teaching would increase significantly and many classes would be much more interesting. Card hours were a substitute for increasing teachers' salaries. That's how the teachers felt about it. I have talked to many of them on this subject many times. The introduction of card hours led to the fact that in many local governments, instead of employing a school teacher, care was provided through the work of teachers employed in a given school within the framework of hours of the article. 42. Very often, in the course of these classes, there were classes in primary schools preparing for the test, which, fortunately, the students of primary schools wrote for the last time this year. In many schools, card hours were fiction. They caused unnecessary bureaucracy, often classes within these hours overlapped and were not properly implemented, among others. By bringing the kids to school. I remember that many teachers were opposed to these hours and felt very disadvantaged by the record that, fortunately, would disappear from the Teacher's Charter. I would also like to stress strongly that the elimination of card hours will not result in teachers now realizing even more extra hours. However, it will be necessary to monitor whether the wording of the Article is misinterpreted. 42. Please note that he has not changed in anything. It sounds the same as before 1 September 2009, when the mandatory card hours were entered into force. I must make it clear that before introducing the so-called. card hours were conducted in schools after-school classes, among others. interest circles, compensatory classes or preparation for competitions and Olympics. These classes were carried out without compulsion in the form of card hours by excellent teachers who work in Polish schools. We have to take care of the teachers. About teachers who work with passion and great commitment. About teachers who perform a very special profession and have a very important social function. Another amendment to the Teacher's Charter is a change in the disciplinary responsibility of teachers. The Ombudsman has repeatedly asked the Minister for National Education to amend the rules on disciplinary responsibility of teachers for several years. The draft amendments to the Teacher's Charter proposed by the Law and Justice take into account a great deal of comments made by the Ombudsman on the rights of the child by introducing a new quality in the disciplinary proceedings of the teachers. I am delighted that the effort has been made to increase the way disciplinary committees operate to the level of the 21st century. Since I care about the safety of children in schools, I am delighted to extend the requirement of non-punishment to all teachers regardless of the place of employment. I am very pleased with the regulation of gratification for teachers who have obtained the title of honorary professor of education. To conclude, I would like to stress very strongly that I am very pleased, like many teachers, with the changes in the card, especially those concerning the liquidation of card hours. We have great teachers who don't need to be forced to do extra work. They're gonna run it anyway, because teaching isn't a profession. It's passion. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u468	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Arthur Warzocha to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am also very pleased, like my previous speaker, with the change that is taking place in the framework of the amendment of the Teacher's Charter Act. I would like to express here, in addition to my appreciation, my admiration for the representatives of the Ministry of National Education, that in a relatively short time they have carried out a change which is of the nature of a profound change and which has been prepared very solidly. For the record, I would just like to add that the Ministry of National Education, when preparing the amendment, asked for a broad consultation of social organisations and unions, including trade unions. From what I have already counted in the documentation that came to us from the Sejm, it appears that these entities were 57, 12 of which responded to the proposals submitted by the Minister for National Education; and many comments were taken into account by the applicant. That is why the project that went to the Sejm was already heavily ejected, if you can use such a term, and, you would like to say, close to the ideal. All the amendments proposed in the framework of the amendment that we are debating today are as positive as possible. I'm going to start with the first one, which is about the liquidation of the so-called. card hours. One thing comes from the discussion that took place and from the questions that were addressed both to the Senators of the rapporteurs and to the Minister: it is not entirely understandable to write the amendment, since the Senators asked what this change would involve, it is not entirely possible to understand whether the teacher's 40-hour salary will still be able to carry out this type of activity. It is therefore worth reading very carefully the provisions still in force, as well as those proposed by the Ministry and voted by the Sejm. Well, so far in the article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 is defined precisely as: within the working time referred to in paragraph 2. 1 and fixed remuneration (a) paragraph 2. 1 talks about a 40-hour week's work The teacher shall carry out, point 1, teaching, education and care activities conducted directly with or for the benefit of the pupils or pupils, in the extent specified in the paragraph. 3 or determined pursuant to paragraph. Four or four. 7. The records that we delete, which are amended by the Act, say that it is also obliged to carry out other activities and activities arising from the statutory tasks of schools, including caring and educational activities taking into account the needs and interests of pupils, except that in these classes the primary and secondary school teacher, including special classes, is obliged to conduct choir care or classes within the framework of teaching plans for the school principal's 2 hours, and the upper secondary school teacher is lit. (b) within 1 hour. The simplification of this provision is simply to delete the number of hours for which the fight is going on, and as a result this point reads: Other activities and activities resulting from the statutory tasks of the school, including caring and educational activities taking into account the needs and interests of the students. Senator Mikołajczyk has made it very clear that the method of gratification will depend on the director. It will be the director who will have to prepare such an educational offer, which will be interesting, which will be developing for children and young people, and for the teacher's work there will be appropriate congratulations. Further changes that have been taken into account in the framework of this amendment, which is finally a statutory regulation To date, this has been done at the level of the Minister of National Education's regulation of 22 January 1998 on the functioning of disciplinary committees for teachers and disciplinary procedures. The teacher's community says that this has resulted in inefficiencies and the chronicity of the proceedings being conducted. Besides, it is not only the voice of the teaching community, but also the authorities that run these problems many times have been involved, e.g. when they had to react through their authorities to the chronicity of these proceedings. Of course, if the rules are decided at the level of implementing acts, this may also lead to a certain overinterpretation or misinterpretation of the rules, so the statutory term is as valid as possible. I must tell you that a lot of comments were made by the Ombudsman on this issue, and they were mostly taken into account. This regulation defines e.g. Rules of conduct and rules of appointment of members, compositions and responsibilities of disciplinary committees, and introduces appeals against decisions on the suspension of teachers, etc. This is all very detailed in the entire chapter 10 of the amended law described. On the one hand, at the level of the Minister of National Education's regulation, we had these issues at least theoretically settled, but on the other hand, there was not what my previous speaker, Senator Mikołajczyk, was also talking about, i.e. extending to all teachers the rules on disciplinary liability and the requirement of non-punishment for the offence committed and the requirement to provide an appropriate certificate, collected by the applicant for employment in the educational institution of the teacher. It was obvious negligence. At the moment, I think it's been properly made up for. And finally, putting at the disposal of the award authority teachers who have obtained the honorary title of professor of education, funds for financial gratification. So far, and this has been the case since 2009, it was all quite random. For practically three years, a different mode of solving the problem has been recorded in the national budget each year. Once these amounts were transferred to local governments, i.e. the managing authorities, as part of the educational subsidy, once within the special reserve of the state budget... And it was neither permanent nor satisfying nor appropriate. Therefore, in support of this amendment, I urge the senators to support this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u470	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Zarin, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u471	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! The main course of our discussion concerns card hours. And it's no wonder, because they're really being eliminated on the one hand by fulfilling the electoral obligation of Law and Justice, and on the other hand, it's also fulfilling... I'm talking about a collective voice, I mean. The teacher's voice. I was a high school teacher until about 1998, so I can't say exactly what school looks like today. I am very often invited as a guest, with lectures, and at least as far as history teachers are concerned, I can say that in really many Polish schools there are outstanding history teachers, great masters who teach children and young people with great passion and devotion the true version of our rich history. And they raise at least those teachers I met as an invited guest. Why am I talking about this? Not only because it is true and it is necessary to talk about it, it is necessary to strengthen teachers by reminding them that it is not a profession but a passion, a mission, but also because they know it. They know it's not a profession, it's a mission, it's a passion. So it has to be emphasized. On the other hand, we must also tell ourselves why the liquidation of card hours was included in the Law and Justice programme and why there was such a general voice to eliminate it. I have tried to talk about it, I will not say that with very many teachers, because I am invited not every day and not to everyone in Poland, but to some group of teachers. And, ladies and gentlemen... So far it doesn't sound like it, and if it does, maybe in those parts of the speech I haven't heard. Well, the card hours were introduced to the school in such a way that no matter what the intentions, because I no longer want to enter in intentions. They were taken as such a double injury, very hard to touch the sensitivity of every human being, in this case the teacher. Namely, on such, one can say, a lower level was introduced a certain injustice. But I say on the lower level. Just so we're clear. This injustice was based on the fact that, although there is no additional payment for it, there is no positive thing. There is no, you can say, balance between what we call duty, and what we call the law. It is these hours that are burdened with very many responsibilities. We understand. Although we understand it with a question mark, I will return to it in a moment that they are in the basic penny. But why still in these extra hours? It's kind of an injustice resulting from the legislator's inability to balance rights and obligations. This is a sense of injustice that I would see in those lower-level teaching statements. But there is a higher level of this phenomenon. This higher level, as I understood the teachers, is that once again the legislator signals that teachers cease to be masters. If something is written directly, as exactly as, I don't know, instructions regarding the place of rolls on shelves in MarcPol or in Biedronca They, I don't know, have to lie so and so, longitudinally, not across. It's... it's the division of our profession into such factors that it's actually easy to take away from us something that is obvious in our profession. We're champions. in the traditional sense of the word. The relationship between the teacher and the student is based on something deeper than the letter of the law: trust, knowledge that the teacher has, and consecration. If the teaching profession is a mission, if the teaching profession is passionate, then there is sacrifice in the teaching profession. And if so, why does the lawgiver lower us to the level of people who should be suspected of not understanding their profession in advance? It has to do with the obviousness of every school, at least those to which I was invited by these historians, I am and I'll probably still be... I see very clearly that teachers in Poland are and can be really sensational precisely because they kind of push aside this unfortunate tool, these card lessons that disturb them, because they have to write some bureaucratic records, because they have to be afraid of audits, which are supposed to make teachers feel disciplined. It's all so terribly anti-human to a reality where you're a passionate man who wants to help this growing young man who's trying to grow up. The teacher is associated with this young man, this disciple, this child's obvious arrangement of master and disciple. Hence, these card hours have rightly been abolished. However, I feel that this liquidation, if we agree that it is the result of a general teaching voice, begins and does not end the reflection of the Ministry of National Education on what is most important. And the most important thing is... I also say this as an academic teacher who sees that the same error is also at the level of higher education. This is the total bureaucracy of human relations, whereas human relations must dominate and not be subject to this bureaucratic arrangement of obligations, not rights and obligations, but obligations themselves. Human relations are that there is a very clear will and desire to be, to become better and better in your beloved profession. This bureaucracy, as we all know, has different views. Here, as I recall, I think Senator Augustine mentioned it, but I'm not sure that you mentioned it to Senator Florek. After all, it was supposed to be a complete computerization of Polish schools, and what is the difficulty of entering your website, clicking on the subject and various activities that are available to your teacher in this system, in any case the computerization of the school caused that there is no more paperwork. Of course, I don't know the statistical data, but somehow again, when I talk to teachers about it, a vast minority tells me that this IT system works so well that it can actually be considered as a ballast, but not so heavy that it gives a senseless sense of activity and, in addition, taking time that should be used... [[Professor, time.]] I'm almost done. ...to pursue the passion of teaching, training, raising a young man. In this connection, I would like to know, Minister, the answer to the question whether this computerization of Polish schools is so extensive that this has led to the minimization of bureaucracy, which minimizes bureaucracy can positively affect the teacher's mood and allows me to say: yes, I am in school, in class and my 45 minutes of contact with students is this free world in which I am obliged to educate, raise young people, and I do not have to worry that I will tire of this effort, just the effort of bureaucrat, who is to be brought to this level by the Ministry of National Education. So in the last sentence, I will say that it is very good that the card hours have been abolished. Maybe this is the beginning of the road to recuperating education in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u472	Thank you very much. Please address Professor Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I listened attentively to the doubts presented here. I do not hide that they mobilized me for this speech. Words about discrimination against students, about the fact that schools spit children out... what horrible words are those? So I would like to briefly raise a fundamental point, I do not know if I can put it properly, because it is extremely delicate, a little signaled by my previous speaker, Professor Żaryn. Just one more saying that bureaucracy isn't just paperwork. After all, bureaucratic responsibilities can also be implemented with modern IT methods, but this is still bureaucracy and it is still a lack of trust. This one aspect that I would like to raise, and which in some way responds to these horrible words about discrimination against students and spit out children, is once again to stress that the profession of teacher is an extremely important calling, not only passion, well, if it is also passion, but it is a great service, a great role, a great social mission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not had the opportunity to be a teacher, but for many years I have been an academic teacher and I have seen this flash in my eyes many times in these adults, which was the answer to the teaching commitment of academic teachers. I wish that to all the teachers. And it's certainly happened to them many times. 'Cause there's something great about how much energy you can get from these young people or, as is the case with students, the more mature ones. Well, that these phenomena, these threats, these fears that were mentioned here today, be alien to us or to be a small margin, it is extremely important to restore ethos and prestige of the profession, as well as wages, but also social recognition. We have many wonderful teachers, educators, also in NGOs. Senator Żaryn spoke about the relationship of the master of the student, and he spoke about other important matters. I would like to go further in this, take a step further, because this process of strengthening the social position and building trust... Instead of bureaucracy, trust. That is what we say in the case of higher education: less bureaucracy, more trust. We'd like to see that happen in public procurement as well. But this process begins with respect in society and in the country of values. That's where it starts. From protection of life, from respect and protection of family, our history, Christian values And for those to whom they are foreign, natural laws Not from promoting, also in this House, pathological behaviours such as gender change, gender, inequality towards the law... This list is long. [[Who changed sex?]] Don't disturb me, Senator. I've been raising young people for many years, mostly in Girl Scouts, and I have no doubt that such a restoration of normality It's normality that's very important and very necessary. It is also a fight for Poland's place in Europe and in the world, it is taking care of patriotism. We see the expectations of young people. After all, we have an explosion of interest in the latest history. An example is the Soldiers of the Cursed Although it is better to say: Relentless. It was the young people themselves who discovered it. And you could say they put it in front of us even harder than we did. We did. This is the direction by which teachers in even more numbers will carry out their vocation in an even greater percentage without bureaucracy, whether paper or IT. Of course, children are the most important. The future of Poland is young people. These are obvious things, but let's say that human capital is not just education. I have spoken many times from this speaker about numerous awards. The Nobel Prize in Economics for Human Capital is said there is also ethics, efficiency and entrepreneurship in addition to education. And that is what I wish for our nation and our country. But I would also like to remind here the Senate's resolution on upbringing, about building an educational atmosphere, which the senator called a meteorological resolution, in order to make a mockery of the fact that the educational atmosphere is important. I hope we've cleared this up and that it's a long time ago. Education and education are not separated from all social life. A holistic approach to upbringing, to school, is absolutely necessary for us, which is why I hope and believe that many initiatives of the government by Mrs Beata Szydło and Minister Zalewska will serve such changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u474	Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn will speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u475	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to emphasize something that I did not do here, because Polish school is a huge topic. If, in fact, one day I may not have been very polite about my efforts to improve the effects of school education, it is only because I am full of reserves for too great words about calling, about mission. They are of course important, but only then does it come true and it doesn't hurt so much to collide with reality when there are the right tools that the teacher can have. And that's what I wanted to talk about with children about special educational needs. This bill today, at least in this part, which concerns card hours, ladies and gentlemen, cards... Who do we see? Teachers with a calling who play cards instead of sacrificing themselves for children. Ladies and gentlemen, card hours is a term that offends teachers. [[They're playing bridge.]] That's why I insist that those who have a calling, who teach wonderfully, because our children achieve measurable success on the scale of Europe and the world... Polish school is a good school, but unfortunately not for everyone and unfortunately not always. There is a gap that I point to: children and young people with special educational needs. I'm not talking about disabled people, because it's regulated well, but it's about border people. And it's not like teachers don't hurt, and it's not like teachers don't know that. I asked if there were teachers who didn't know that. Everybody knows. Then why is it so? Somehow no one's denying it, because that's what it is. Because there aren't any tools. And now I'm concerned that trying to shift responsibility for these young people Which we should give more, I stress, because they got less, for different reasons On teachers, as the Platform did, proposing these additional hours, or on local governments, as they are now trying to do, in my opinion they will not result. You can't fool yourself. You have to look for solutions that will meet teachers who want to help these children, but it has to cost money and it has to be organized well. If there is time, as the Minister said, to think also of these aspects, even in the context of the allocation algorithm or other form of encouragement, it would be good to use it so that we can finally develop this area of shame. And then the picture we want to see, the teachers involved, the school that wants to help everyone and everyone equally, the more they need it, it's not gonna be darkened anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u476	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Joseph the Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u477	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It happened to me in my life that I worked in primary school for a year, a year in high school, the rest of my time at college, and I think it kind of entitles me to speak. I have to say something like that. For several years now, I have been very intrigued by the matter of formalization, which, not in the sense of building it, has happened right now. I've been very busy with this case. And the natural question of everyone: where are the sources? Of course, I found material sources and everyone can check it out, but there are other sources, these are mental sources. And even though we're shouting out that swords in hand or something else, that we're going east or west, we can't really boast that we're a brave nation. And this is due to the fact that for many, many years there has been an irresistible trend We'll go wherever we go. To minimize the risk, whatever we do, everyone wants to protect themselves. What do we most often do to protect ourselves with? Paper, bureaucracy, formalism, and in normal life, you have to take risks, taking responsibility for yourself. And it seems to me that this is the second source of creation or maybe even the original of what happened. Because it's not just primary and secondary schools that are suffocating from formalism, it's also in college. The request for a new direction years ago 10 counted, let's say, 60 pages, right, Minister? Approximately 80 pages. Now, ladies and gentlemen, as the conclusion has been shown to me, it was about that thick, it was such a stack that it would be complete... What does that tell you? And from the fact that someone making the decision wants to make sure that nothing, God forbid, was ever dumped anywhere. So what's he doing? It minimizes the risk. But those who do it, and very many people do it, should look at the publications of economics Nobel Prize winners. There are three Nobel Prizes for risk theory, where we know And that comes from a theory, for example. That if we want to achieve a result, we have to take the appropriate risk. These are accounting cases, and it's really worth knowing. Anyway, I guess everyone experiences in their lives that if they don't take risks, they don't achieve anything. I think here we have the best example in the person of Senator Rulewski. And now I'm going to refer to the main thing I wanted to tell you about. Well, in my search for written sources concerning this matter, just as far as school matters are concerned, I came to the conclusion that it is necessary to look at university libraries, or actually faculty libraries, and to look at the libraries of the faculty. I recommend it to everyone. They won't say no, I hope. In order to go to the university, where there is a pedagogical course with doctoral qualifications, he asked for doctoral work, even master's work. And there you will find a response to the habilitation work too. What is recommended by specialists: formalization, formalization, formalization, description, description, description... Well, what's not there... I have to say, a normal man is gonna shake it up, and he's gonna leave this library early. And these are the two sources. I am very glad that this idea came up to look at it, but in order to understand what is going on at the same time, I think it is important to remember that these two elements are the first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u478	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Stanisław Rooster. [[The teacher of the nation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Before me, the teachers spoke, and maybe I'll say as a parent, as a man who was in the parent's school board in primary school, in high school, a man who assumes inclusive kindergartens and integration classes. Gentlemen, I say this: I am proud that the government of Mrs Beata Szydło and Minister Zalewska have begun a major reform. I really liked her motto, which she said when she was in Nowy Sącz: that the child is to be an subject, not a thing. And, Mr and Mrs Dear, when she presented the program, the screams began immediately. And it's the screams of those who shouldn't scream. Dear Lords, maybe I'll talk about my school years when they taught me wonderful, wonderful, wonderful teachers who didn't pay for any extracurricular hours. I remember my wonderful Polish teacher, Mrs. Maria Babisz. As a child and an athlete, I wanted to play soccer, and she says: come with me, after hours, to Polish lessons, and then she told me about Katyn, she told me many other things. To this day I remember the instilled love for the Polish language, for the history you wanted to eliminate. And thank God you didn't make it, because the nations that lose their memories are losing their lives. And thanks to this love, thanks to her, who is dead today, rests in Rabka and I am going to her grave, I wrote a Polish prom paper about the Napoleonic legend in Popiełach Żeromski, I brought Kniaziewicz's books and wondered if I had done well, but, Dear Lords, this teacher has given me a great love for my homeland and history. Ladies and gentlemen, let's remember one thing. There are wonderful, wonderful teachers. Of course there are teachers in this group who want to swim... what kind of reform did you do? Because you're not talking about it today. You've divided schools, you've done administrative directors, and as far as vocational education is concerned, you've completely eliminated them. You've done like the former Soviet Union of Masters of Cow Belt, and electricians or shoemakers, tailors just don't exist at all. And it's a good thing to talk about these compensations today, and I'm going to say, "Glory be to Mrs. Beata Szydło's government wants to do this reform." I'm watching this... My grandson was taking the test now. He came and says, "Grandpa, why this exam, how easy were the questions?" I guess it's just to make us nervous for my mom to walk around the shops and dress me up in style. ♪ 'Cause the effect ♪ He says he's I don't think that's a thing. And therefore, Mr and Mrs Dear, you have to say mea culpa, because today really... Those teachers who taught us to love our country, Dear Lords... There are no slanders of the beloved country, there is no such thing that outside the homeland someone is giving to the beloved Republic. All those who say: do what you want, any authority can destroy, they don't like Prime Minister Szydło, they don't like Minister Zalewska, you don't like President Andrzej Duda, because everything they do is wrong... Praise them for putting the welfare of the Republic and its citizens first. And I can actually tell Professor Żaryn and Professor Wind that they've hit the spot. We want to make the country actually... scream those who shouldn't scream. They don't like anything. They really don't like anything. And for their ideology, they'll do anything to make up for the fact that they're actually right. Dear Lords, I say this: I observe teachers in integration classes, where if they are from three to five children... there is an auxiliary teacher. Now, go on, ladies and gentlemen, who say it's bad, and watch the teachers take care of the disabled's children. As they really teach, from kindergarten integration, true tolerance. Because there may be some lunatic, bin Laden, who can destroy wonderful buildings, but no one will ever take away this learned tolerance, love, how a functioning child helps a disabled child. And let's not say there are no great teachers. Teachers are wonderful. They're on duty. And smart guys go for money. Because even my teacher... My parents couldn't afford extracurriculars, tutoring. I'm very grateful to her. And really, let's stop working on ideology when it comes to teachers. The bad guys need to be eliminated, as the Minister said. Because there are bad teachers. But there are also great teachers. And really, let's just say that... It's a good thing we're having this discussion. But I was delighted to hear them applaud Minister Zalewska in Nowy Sącz for all the education reform. And there's gonna be a lot of discussion on other subjects. But, Mr and Mrs Dear, why was history to be eliminated? What, we wanted them to forget those heroes who... holy memory of President Kaczyński, so to speak, pulled out a museum dedicated to heroes who actually fought for free and independent Poland, the Soldiers of the Cursed. Is that why we wanted to eliminate the story so that we would never hear about the Link, where the partition hid heroes in German uniforms? Is that why we wanted to liquidate? I will say: the great Poles said that nations who lose their memory lose their lives. And history is really connected to our Commonwealth. There were presidents who said we'd forget about the past. If you look at their pedigree, it would only then come out who they were in Mr. Rakowski's government. They're sports ministers. I guess that's what they wanted to forget. Thank you and congratulations to the Minister for Brave Decisions. And congratulate the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u480	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of Józef Czapski. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Culture and Media and is included in print No 136 and that the report is published in print No 136 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present, as a substitute, a report by the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution on commemoration of Józef Czapski; print No 136 S. The initiative was initiated by the Committee on Culture and Communications in accordance with Article. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski was appointed to represent the committee, and I am presenting this report as a replacement. On 7 April 2016, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission on commemorating the memory of Józef Czapski in order to consider this project at first reading. The Commission today, on 13 April, at its first reading, examined the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and asked the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution annexed to it. This draft resolution, as regards the comparison with the original draft found in print No 136, was changed to a shorter text by the Senator, and there were several editorial amendments. I'll let myself read the text of the committee. today she accepted the amendments, including the self-correction. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the commemoration of Józef Czapski. 120 years ago, on April 3, 1896, Józef Czapski was born, a valiant soldier, a famous painter, an outstanding writer and publicist, one of the most outstanding Poles and witnesses of the history of the 20th century. In September 1939 he got into Soviet captivity, released in 1941 he joined the Anders Army and as her soldier he searched for missing Polish officers in Russia until April 1942. The experience of his stay in Soveta was described in shocking books: The Older Bielski Memories and the Inhuman Land. In his introduction to Inhuman soil he left a testimony of his emotions: As he wrote, he did not weaken in me, but the awareness of the tragic opposition of Poland and Russia, our concepts, our historical roads grew. The feeling of the death threat of Poland was growing. But he also wrote further: I believe that reliable and fraternal relations between Poland and Russia are not only possible, but in the future necessary, more that we are each other despite our tragic contradictions, extremely close. No one in Poland could bear witness to the cruelty of that time like Józef Czapski. Recognizing that a successful future can only be built on the truth, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to Józef Czapski, one of those who witnessed to the truth about man A prominent creator of the Polish culture of the 20th century. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Please, Mr Marshal, the High House for adoption of a resolution in the version which the committee has adopted and which I have presented. If it is necessary to ask for a third reading to be held at this meeting, of course, this is the proposal I make.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u482	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u483	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, what was the result of the vote and were there any controversy in the work on the resolution, on this final text? [[No...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u484	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u485	No, with regard to the committee's deliberations, the committee was very much in line with the text that was finally adopted. As for the self-correction that you submitted to Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to make it this short version, of course everyone agreed. The amendments which were later tabled by me and also by Senator Czerwiński were also accepted without any controversy. So that in great agreement the committee accepts this text and asks that the High Senate vote this resolution in this version as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u486	Thank you. There are no more questions. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'm in for a discussion. It is good that the Senate honors the memory of Józef Czapski. First of all, we know him as a writer. I believe that his book "On Inhuman Land" is the best testimony of a situation that many Poles, but not only Poles, have touched on this inhuman land. It's a very reliable book. Besides, I think her artistic level is very high. This is, in my opinion, the best book on Soviet Labs. Józef Czapski and a whole group of 2nd Corps officers founded the Literary Institute in Italy, then moved to Maisons-Laffitte. It was a group and a political group and a peer. The culture of Paris had a significant impact on the situation in Poland, on the formation of democratic opposition, and also on our attitude towards the nations subdued in the former Soviet Union. I remind you of Mieroszewski, Giedroyt, Hertz. In addition, Józef Czapski was a very good painter, an artist. He painted a lot of paintings. The permanent exhibition of his works will be whether he is already in Krakow. These paintings were transported to Poland, few remained there in Maisons-Laffite. In Maisons-Laffitte there is also a museum of the Parisian Culture, which also commemorates Giedroycia. You can see under which conditions this small but very significant group worked, under which conditions Czapski lived. When we see what these conditions looked like, we have to say that they are disproportionate to what they did, how they influenced Poland primarily intellectually, but also financially, because after all, Paris' culture supported independent movements in Poland, opposition in the 1970s, then solidarity in the martial state. In fact, she did not only bear witness until the end of her life, but also gave concrete material support. Therefore, I stress once again that it is a good thing that the Senate commemorates Józef Czapski with a resolution. I would also like to say that in commemorating Czapski, we also commemorate the Paris culture and the entire Maisons-Laffite team. Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. No legislative proposals have been submitted. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u487	The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Legislative Committee on the examination of the applications submitted at the 15th Senate meeting to the Act on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws, Senate printing No 124, will take place 20 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u488	Dismissed until 10:30 p.m. [[Thirty-six...]] Thirty-six? [[Mr. Marshal, what about after the break? Further order?]] Dismissed until 10:40 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. [[And then what?]] Then, after the vote, I will order a recess until Wednesday, April 20th. [[What about the drug bill?]] It's after the vote... [[Voice from the room: It hasn't been decided whether we're gonna make a second point or...]] As I said, after the vote there will be an adjournment until April 20th by 11:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 16 to 22 minutes 40]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 120 and the Commission's reports In prints No 120 A and 120 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u490	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Health Committee the position of the committee on the government bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. Government bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] A government bill on the introduction of free medicines refunded listed, gradually extended to recipients who have completed seventy-five years of age, is a very important step towards fulfilling the obligation enshrined in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that public authorities are obliged to provide special care to the elderly. After the age of 75, the legislator has already indicated in the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits, granting those persons the right to a care allowance without the need to indicate other conditions beyond age. According to the Ministry of Health's information, the highest use of medicines is in this age group. Elderly patients are a population that consumes the largest number of drug packs. In response to the expectations of seniors, this government bill addresses the phenomenon of the lack of effective access of older people to treatment, also for economic reasons. These problems are not marginal because according to the Central Statistical Office at the end of 2014 the senior population was estimated to be around 3 million people in Poland after seventy-five years of age. The proposed changes will actually relieve seniors' domestic budgets from part of drug spending. Thanks to these changes we have a real chance to increase the availability of medicines, which will improve the health and quality of life of Polish patients. Statistics show that about 17% of seniors do not buy prescribed medications, about 30% of seniors may take only half the dose recommended by their doctor, and 21% She's interrupting therapy. The project envisages granting recipients after the age of seventy-five the right to free medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices listed in the list published by the Minister responsible for Health by means of a notice. The list shall include medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices for which final administrative decisions to be covered by the refund or final amending decisions referred to in Article are issued. The 16th Refund Act. The basis for receiving the products in question will be a free prescription issued by a primary healthcare doctor, a primary healthcare nurse or a doctor who has the right to pursue the profession, who has ceased to perform and has issued a prescription for himself or for his spouse, initial and outgoing in a straight line and siblings. Authorisation of the recipient after the age of seventy-five to supply medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses free of charge and medical devices included in the list referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Refund Act is implemented only on the basis of age criterion. The draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws is expected to enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The first list referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act as amended by Art. The Minister responsible for Health shall announce no later than 1 September 2016. The draft law 75+ provides for a mechanism for funding from the State budget, from the part at the disposal of the Minister of Health, the difference between the limit and the retail price. This means that the costs of medicines, special purpose foodstuffs and medical devices necessary to improve and maintain health will be borne by the state budget. In 2016, this funding will amount to PLN 125 million, in 2017 PLN 564 million 300 thousand, in 2018 PLN 643 million 300 thousand and will increase until 2025, when it will amount to PLN 1 billion 203 million 200 thousand. This is very important because today patients 75+ pay for medicines reimbursed about PLN 860 million. Many questions at the Health Committee were about the criteria and what drugs would be included in the list, so-called. Lists of "S'. Well, there will be medicines on the list of medicines that are already on the list of medicines to be refunded, and they will be medicines used in elderly people. So not all medicines refunded. Another criterion will be the ratio of costs to obtaining health effects of the medicine, a food for particular nutritional uses and a medical device. Mr Marshal, High Senate, the economic impact can be described as positive because of the state's commitment to financing the purchase of products so far by patients not bought for economic reasons. The economic situation of the participants in the marketing of the refunded products will thus be improved. On the one hand, public spending will be increased, but on the other hand health and quality of life for older people will be improved and hospitalisation costs will be reduced due to the lack of prescribed medicines. Senators, today we have a chance to implement laws guaranteeing people 75+ free medicines and thus significantly improve the status of seniors in Poland. Project 75+ is a good and expected change for seniors. The Senate Health Commission recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u491	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Health Commission, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u492	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The minority proposals concern two issues. It is a matter of fact that only primary healthcare professionals are entitled to prescribe free medicines, while all doctors of the health insurance system are entitled to issue prescriptions. Moreover, several years ago a special specialization was created for care of elderly people called geriatrics, but doctors of this specialization are also discriminated against and excluded from the possibility of prescribing these free medicines. Therefore, the first request of a minority is to replace the words of the primary healthcare doctor with the words of the health insurance doctor. The second conclusion is further. According to the Constitution, special care should be given not only to older people but also to children, which is why we proposed that free medicines should also include children up to the age of eighteen. You will find these amendments in the documents submitted by the legislators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u493	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy from the meeting at which the committee considered a law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time since I had the pleasure of recommending to you the 500+ programme addressed to families of many children. We were already discussing that Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government is going to prepare And deliver on the electoral promises. The programme is also addressed to the elderly. And today I am pleased to recommend to you such a programme introduced by the amendment of this law. The discussion at the committee meeting mainly covered the issues of border years, the limit of seventy-five years of age. The senators wondered why the seventy-five year of age was the limit date. Minister Łanda pointed out that this is due to other legal acts which also build a system for the oldest. The question was also raised as to why only POZ doctors would be able to discharge these medicines. Here other medical specialties will unfortunately have to wait for the construction of the appropriate IT system, and when this system functions, the Ministry also provides for the inclusion of other medical specialties. For now, a POZ doctor will play a major role in this system. At the committee meeting, amendments were proposed to this law by the Senate legislators. The Commission considered that they were not so important for the whole issue that we had to introduce them. The committee therefore recommends that this law be adopted without amendment, in the wording in which it was passed to us. I would like to thank the government and the ministers present for preparing this very important programme, which opens up to senior Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u495	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u496	I am directing the question to the President of Kraska. Mr. Senator, you said seniors after seventy-five years of age use the most drugs. I admit that I am interested in this problem, and I have found a lot of evidence that seniors generally use more drugs, but I have not yet met such studies that indicate this date. With us, the minister defended this law, not relying on this kind of research, but on the law on the allowance and the welfare allowance. What studies show that seventy-five-year-olds consume more than e.g. Seventy-two or seventy-three?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u497	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u498	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course this is documented in some studies that show that patients with age And especially since that time limit, which has been adopted, or since the seventy-fiveth year of age. Unfortunately, they take more every year because there are far more diseases in them. The fact that we've accepted the age of 75... You should've started somewhere. It seems to me that this is exactly the age defined by the purely technical, which the government has adopted, but it is documented that seniors who are above this age, however, are taking more. They are not always purely refunded medicines, there are many medicines that seniors buy as if according to what they hear in different media, and these medicines are not always effective, but there are studies that these medicines are actually buying out much more than other age groups. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u499	Yes, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u500	So, at the committee meeting, did you analyze PolSenior's research in this respect, the widest, most substantively reliable, which shows that after seventy-seven years of age, the number of chronic diseases in Poles is decreasing, is not increasing? Because you say the number of diseases and the use of drugs is increasing, that's not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u501	This topic was not the subject of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u502	Senator Wojtyla. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u503	I would like to ask the rapporteur if there was a discussion at the committee on medicines for seniors that will be reimbursed? Are these medicines that are sold for 30% flat-rate payment and medicines that are prescribed on prescription? Because, as I understand it, it's gonna be all the drugs that are prescribed on prescription, which are sold, written on a prescription with 100% pay. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u504	According to what the Minister said at the committee meeting, it will only be medicines from the lists of medicines reimbursed and will, of course, only apply to this group of medicines intended for older age. So it's not gonna be all the drugs refunded.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u505	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u506	I have a question for a minority representative, Senator Grodzki. Mr. Senator, Mr. Representative of the minority proposal, how can we justify the need not only for constitutional supplies, such special assistance, including drug aid, for children, also for other groups, from a medical point of view? I'm not accidentally referring to you because you're a medical professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u507	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u508	Mr. Senator, I'm an adult medical professor, but children, I repeat, should be under special protection. As we know from the last meeting of the Health Committee, where we discussed difficult chronic neurological diseases, there is a population of children who suffer from very serious chronic diseases. Children have their peaks of disease when resistance at preschool age falls, then treatment also sometimes requires the use of expensive antibiotics. Generally, diseases, or at least most of them, are much more violent in children. What we hear about the cases of sepsis is that it was unrecognized that the child died on his way to the hospital or immediately in the hospital. Treatment whether pharmacological or other in children should take place immediately, as the child's body has much smaller homeostatic reserves and can break down in a short time. Therefore, there are many medical conditions for children to also include special medical protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u509	Senator Rulewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u510	This time the question to the representative of the majority. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Mr. Senator! Doctor! [[Superhero.]] You were on the committee representing the majority's position that rejected this argument and, in general, the need for any particular assistance for children, even though you previously believed, including on the occasion of the 500+ programme, that children would be involved in major flagship projects. [[We respect everyone.]] I do not accept what has been announced in advance in this reply that this is intended to solve the 500+ programme. The 500+ programme is directed at a completely different action and it is worth paying attention to the Minister, who was present, that the 500+ programme covers only the second child. [[What kind of question is that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u511	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u512	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the idea is very right and, of course, you would like to include children as well, but if I were malicious, I would ask what you have done for these children for eight years. I think we need to start somewhere. [[We've been waiting for you.]] The more that it's extra money, the money added to the system, because it's budget money. I think that this first step we're taking, in the form of introducing free medicines for seniors, is a step in the right direction, and I think it's time for free medicines for children as time goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u513	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question. [[Senators should be on medication...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u514	I'm addressing you, too. No doubt you have to react, because seniors... There are various studies, the results of some here you have recalled, the results of others may not be so dramatic, in my opinion the most reliable ones, PolSenior, are perhaps less dramatic, but also show that a few percent of people often give up buying drugs, and a dozen percent do so sometimes. We need to intervene. These are economic reasons. Please tell me if any data was presented at the committee meeting proving that seventy-five-year-olds, even though they receive a care allowance, a nursing allowance, are in a more difficult situation than younger pensioners, e.g. Agricultural.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u515	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u516	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator! I will answer you very simply because unlike you, I am a practicing doctor and I have contact with older people who go to the hospital every day just because they didn't take the medication because they didn't have anything to buy them for. So the fact that we're using some statistics and we're saying that this group may not be required, and this group requires... I think that if we can get these resources to a group of people who can buy these drugs, the cost of hospitalization will really be lower because these people aren't going to the hospital just because they didn't take the drugs. It happens many times that the patient was in the hospital just because he didn't have to buy his meds. I think that you, as a representative of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, should look at this problem in a different way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u517	Thank you. Mr. Senator Tight. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u518	I have a question for Senator Kraska, too. Senator, how was the committee's meeting justified by restricting the right to write prescriptions refunded only and exclusively to family doctors, excluding geriatrics, who are specialists in diseases of senior age? Has the committee even dealt with this topic?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u519	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u520	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Yes, Mr. Senator, this thread has been raised, and the argument of the ministry was quite simple: there is no IT system that could at the moment supervise the number of medicines prescribed for seniors free of charge. We think that's the way the ministry put it, and I think that's the right thing to do. The only system that will check and control the discharge of these medicines is the family doctor's system. If the IT system were to work, as it was assumed... It was supposed to run from January 1st, but unfortunately, as we know, money was wasted in my opinion by the previous team and this system is not working. So there's no other choice but to limit it to family doctors only. The Ministry's representatives said that if this system works within a year or two, then of course it can be extended to all doctors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u521	Thank you. Mr. Senator Pup. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u522	I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. If I may, I would ask the senator a question. Yes. Take it easy. [[What do you have to take to survive this night?]] Please... Senator, according to the public opinion, the proposal of medicines refunded to the elderly is as expected and appropriate as possible. And that expectation exists. I'm seeing it. People are waiting for this bill, waiting for it to come into force and enabling the elderly to be properly cared for. I would like to ask if there was a discussion in your club, in your community, perhaps at a committee meeting about why in the previous term, six months ago, no free drugs were introduced and no child care was extended? If you'd be kind enough to bring it up to me, I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u523	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u524	Senator, just so we're clear, I think this is a useful bill. There was a discussion at the Health Committee, but on details: what will be the distribution of these medicines; whether there will be speculative abuses, for example. The first seniors will buy medicine for a lot of money, and for others it is not enough; who will signal that the pot for this year has already run out; whether it is better to enter some electronic cards charged with money for each senior. And this is a small amount this year. She's about 45 zlotys per senior. Such discussions were held at the committee meeting. What was in the previous term? Allow me not to answer because I wasn't a senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u525	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u526	It's for the senator. Doctor, I would like to express my appreciation to you for the fact that you combine medical practice with social care. You have mentioned that many older people report to you that you are helping them and that you see the problem that not everyone can help. But did you meet in your practice with the fact that they came to you asking for medical help, because they could not buy drugs, pensioners, so people with the lowest benefits in Poland, or unemployed people? That's the first question. And second question. You're in good shape with the Minister of Health present here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The secret of this law, which has not yet been announced, but is of fundamental importance, is this basket of S. Could you at least remove the hack of mystery and tell us what's going to happen to pensioners in this basket? What drug groups? How much will they help in the process of support and economic, and health?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u527	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u528	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I answer the first question: yes, there have been people coming to my office who, for economic reasons, could not afford to buy drugs. They came in with prescriptions. It's just that these medications have happened. I bought them at the pharmacy. As far as the second question is concerned, of course this basket is currently in preparation. The main framework for what will be, what drugs will be found on the so-called. the list of medicines of the S... These will be medicines that are already refunded; medicines that are actually used only at an older age; and the third criterion, also very important, medicines that will work in a certain way, economically justified... simply the price of this medicine will, let's say, give the right health effect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u529	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u530	Doctor, you were already among us when your club called you in last term. I believe you did this to Senator Mammoths, the first such project, which confirms your constant desire to handle the issue of free medicines for seniors. And then we were presented with studies that showed that these groups of patients, who already have free access to drugs today, consume significantly more of these medicines. Have you considered mechanisms that should prevent drug abuse? How do you assess what is proposed in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u531	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u532	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I think one of the mechanisms that will reduce drug abuse is that these medicines will be prescribed by a primary healthcare doctor. It is sometimes the case that some older people, older patients, walk around in different doctors, specialist doctors. And sometimes prescribed drugs differ in names, but their chemical and health effects are similar. And I think this is the first link that's a POZ doctor who's gonna write prescriptions for these drugs right now, and it's like he's gonna control that these drugs aren't duplicated or consumed in excess by patients.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u533	Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, can I ask you a question?]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u534	Would that mean that, for example, in the case of veterans, this system does not work today, if there is such abuse of medicines?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u535	Mr. Senator, it's hard for me to tell if this system doesn't work, but really sealing this system at the level that would correspond to the level of computerization would only happen, and only, I believe, by the doctor of POZ. At the Health Committee's meeting it was also mentioned that at the moment prescriptions are being read in pharmacies and the NFZ has knowledge of what drugs have been prescribed. However, this is, unfortunately, knowledge after the fact, and we want this system to work as if before. And the pool of money that is intended for these drugs is indeed not without limits. If we had spent an unlimited amount of money on this, we could actually give all these drugs free of charge. As you can see, in the first year it is only 125 million, but in the following years it is far more.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u536	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u537	That's the last question. Please tell me, Mr President: and what will happen when this modest sum of funds Because this year statistically for a month it's actually going to be just over 6 zł, next year for luck more Will it run out during the year? How will this matter be regulated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u538	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u539	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I very much do not like such comparisons that this is a modest sum per month or per day... We can figure out how much it's gonna be for an hour, and it's gonna be a few pennies an hour. We all know that not all seniors are taking drugs. Right? Not everyone needs treatment. So what the ministry has declared... the drugs that will appear on this list will not be the cheapest ones, but the ones that seniors have to pay a lot of money to. And yes, this year this is PLN 125 million. But let's assume it's working, say, since September 1st. Next year it will be PLN 564 million 300 thousand. We know that Polish pensioners over the age of seventy-five spend 860 million on medicines, and this, I stress, on medicines reimbursed, so we basically cover 2/3 or even more of those expenses which are borne by pensioners and pensioners over the age of seventy-five. There was also a question, and this was the subject of debate at the committee meeting, which would be if the funds were not available. But the Minister said that every once in a while this list will be updated and drugs will be moved from this list... He's gonna be on this list, I think, of these drugs more, this list is gonna be like getting richer. [[Mr. Senator, you haven't answered the question of what happens when the money runs out during the year.]] [[Angels will bring it.]] We don't assume that the money will run out. [[Unlike the minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u540	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u541	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, Mr President, I must say that you are a better politician than a doctor. At least that's my assessment of your answers. [[Voice from the room: This could be...]] Maybe it's a more precise question. You're an intern because it confirms your age, and indeed your experience... [[As a politician.]] No, as a doctor. Politics is still young. Mr President, Professor Rocki pointed out... this law contains a sort of natural phenomenon of drug panic in connection with regulation and this is a basket, and this is available resources... I'm asking about another panic. Will not people, considering that there is limited funding, buy these free medicines for backup, especially the more expensive ones?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u542	Congratulations on your compliments, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u543	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is the system that's gonna be like a primary healthcare doctor going through... This doctor will know how many medications he's prescribed for the patient. If a patient needs two packs a month, no one's gonna prescribe two more packs, because they should use those packs first. [[This will go to the second voivodeship.]] No, he's got one primary care doctor. [[Please?]] He's got one primary care doctor, a family doctor is one... [[But there are a few primary care doctors in the clinic.]] But I don't... [[But it's written down to one thing...]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[No, because there's...]] [[You haven't been to the doctor yet...]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Senator, please respond to Senator Rulewski's question.]] Each of us has one family doctor who runs the treatment, it's written down there. There's no way we can have a couple of family doctors. [[Write Jasi to your clinic, he'll know the doctor...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u544	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We welcome our colleague today as Minister, Mr Konstanty Radziwiłł Hello, Minister. And the Undersecretary of State, Mr. Krzysztof Łanda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u545	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the opportunity to present, in my opinion, one of the most expected legislative proposals today. I would like to point out that the March CBOS study Not among the elderly, but in a representative group of Poles, 94 percent of the support for this project was shown, so if anyone were wondering if it was worth supporting it, I would recommend caution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a project which is, of course, the implementation of the solution planned in the Law and Justice programme, and was also announced in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to implement for the first 100 days of government action. In fact, during this period the project was prepared. It is, of course, also one of the priorities of the Minister of Health's activities in the context of the implementation of the country's drug policy, where citizens should be guaranteed adequate access, among others. to medicines that are safe and effective while reducing patients' participation in the cost of treatment. The solution we propose is also aimed at better implementation of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic, which in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 imposes on public authorities, among others. special obligation to provide health care to the elderly. Referring to the discussion, which in some ways has already been held here, and in general the discussion in this area, in which attention was paid to the ambiguity of these 75 years and older age, I would send back... Of course, you can argue about what the embodiment meant by the old age constitution. For the purposes of describing the older age, many words are used in Polish: the golden age, the old age, the older age, the older age. I think that if some of the people in the room were to assign age to them, even those who have already crossed certain boundaries, where they are talking about old age at all, you would probably move. Some of you probably would have moved, because this age has come to us. There are no sharp definitions here. With more advanced age than e.g. 65 years or 60 years, which in turn is considered to be the beginning of an age where you can talk about old age in various aspects. Right? [[Voice from the room: Oh, no!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, that's right. The reaction in the Chamber shows that choosing this age is not entirely pointless, although of course there is no such hard roots in the Constitution itself. It should be noted that this age limit is applied in some other provisions, which obviously does not need to be translated directly and automatically into this provision. And so on. In the Family Benefits Act, it is from the age of seventy-five that people are granted the right to a care allowance without the need to show other conditions. And that's very important. Also in the case of this law, no additional criteria are foreseen for granting the right to free medicines, which I very much stress. There was a discussion as to whether wealth should be explored, etc. We decided to do this because we didn't want to crush this project in the bud. It is simply that these people, especially the elderly at an increasingly advanced age, are not forced to prove their right to enjoy this privilege, e.g. by presenting various certificates, visiting various offices, etc., which would give them the opportunity to benefit from this privilege. There is also an additional argument which was put forward in the discussion, in favour of such persons being included in this provision. Studies show that people over the age of seventy-five are quite obvious, are more sick and are more likely to suffer from chronic diseases. Various assessments show that people over the age of seventy-five have a need for 40 packs of medicines per year, which obviously involves more financial effort than in other groups. Here I will immediately refer to the proposal to extend this privilege to other groups described in the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitutions, e.g. children. It must be said that special childcare is carried out in different ways. It seems that in more adequate than just covering the cost of medicines, which children in general consume less. With regard to e.g. to the arguments of Senator Grodzki, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the examples given by your senator are nothing to this project. Children suffering from sepsis, using antibiotic therapy, so to speak, are completely out of line with this project. We antibiotics also in the case of older people, who also use antibiotics in different situations, will certainly not be included on the list of So this is not an appropriate request at all. Children who are very ill with chronic diseases are generally subject to medicines free of charge, so this is not a group that needs to be given such a privilege in some special way. But it must also be said, as President Waldemar Kraska rightly pointed out, that this is the first step we are taking. I would like to point out that a very similar proposal has been considered, as has already been pointed out in this Chamber in 2014. The coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party concluded that the Polish State could not afford this solution, and rejected it. So the criticism that this is only partially and only the first step so far, and maybe not enough money etc., is quite incomprehensible in this situation. We also recognize the problem from the fact side. Various studies show a different degree of non-buyability by patients, but the most cautious estimate is 17%. prescriptions that are not implemented. What does that mean in practice? That it is almost 1/5 patients and certainly, there is no doubt about it, they are mainly older people. Although, Mr. Senator Rulewski, of course also others, e.g. Retirists, also unemployed people happen. But I would like to point out that these are often people who, statistically speaking, use the pharmacy in an incidental way, unlike older people, who have a large part of whom systematically have to use medicines that simply keep them alive. These are people who have chronic illness much more often than others. That is why, assuming that we do not apply criteria other than age criteria, this type of solution can only be used in this group. I stress very much... I do not want to tire you of the various arguments that have already been put forward by the committees, as well as by the presidents, so I would like to draw attention to one very important point in this brief presentation. It has happened in the past that by introducing various types of innovation or additional privileges or additional powers for citizens under the healthcare system, the government has benefited from a solution that I would call not entirely honest, i.e. he added the right, but he did not provide any, I stress: no additional funding, but entrusted the additional task to the National Health Fund. This can only mean one thing: reducing the possibility of financing other benefits, which is something you don't talk about anymore. Here we have applied a solution that may not knock you to your knees, especially as regards the first year of this law, because we are talking about PLN 125 million this year, but I emphasize very strongly this: this is the first step and this is the solution that adds this money to the Polish health system. It is a drop, but it certainly should be noted that this is a step Right this way. Please note that not further than last year, the previous government and the previous parliament voted on the solution for transferring the cost of vaccination to the burden of the National Health Fund from the budget, which is the opposite way. So, you could say, he de facto took the money because he charged the National Health Fund, and not giving him any extra money, he took the money. At the moment we are also planning to return with vaccinations in the right direction, i.e. So that it's the state budget, not the National Health Fund. And this solution, this year-to-year increase in the amount of funding for medicines for the elderly, will burden the state budget in its entirety, ultimately PLN 1 billion 200 million. As regards the co-financing mechanism It's very important. It's so planned that there's nothing that a lot of patients can't handle at the pharmacy, and it doesn't understand the solution, that you get a drug that says it's free on the desk, or that it's flat-rate on it. It costs 3 PLN and 20 gr, but in the pharmacy you have to pay a large sum, because this medicine does not fit in the limit. As far as the solution is concerned, which is enshrined in the provision, the situation here is quite different. In the first place, funding will take place through the fund, within the limits of public funding, as is the case under general rules, and then what, as if it were to be paid by the patient, is fully paid: it will be financed in its entirety if the drug is on the list. It will be so that the drug is actually and really, without any discussion, free for the patient, i.e. that there is no drug surcharge, which is only called free, as it often happens in pharmacies. Very controversial in the discussion turned out to be a provision which entrusts the possibility of issuing prescriptions for seniors, i.e. for medicines free of charge, only to primary health care doctors, primary care nurses and doctors who issue so-called prescription pro auctore or pro familiae, that is, for yourself or for your loved ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this solution is not accidental. On the one hand, of course, it is the task, as has been said here, of reducing the risk of abuse. Because, unfortunately, when we talk about public money, we also need to think about it. Surely a family doctor or a nurse working in primary healthcare are those who, seeing the patient constantly, will simply see how often this patient has used this type of prescription And, of course, we will list mainly medicines used in chronic diseases and how many drugs it consumes. Well, of course it can happen. I know it as a family doctor. That the prescription will be destroyed, that the drugs will be destroyed. However, if patient's expectations for prescriptions were to occur more frequently, then simply I'm telling you straight. The doctor writing these prescriptions would be an accomplice to such abuse. So I think ten times he'll wonder if it's worth it, especially since we see what the ordination of drugs looks like. But there is another argument, which may not be the first reason or the first expected result of this solution, but I am paying attention to it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in practical terms, in many health systems only family doctors issue prescriptions, and doctors in narrower medical fields are consultants for these doctors. The patient goes to a cardiologist, a diabetesologist, a rheumatologist, as well as a geriatric And I'm very keen on that, and I'm mentioning it here. also a geriatra as a consultant specialist It comes back with a letter in which the specialist proposes a type of treatment, which is finally verified by the family doctor. And he's the one who decides what medication to prescribe. By the way, I would like to point out that there are 351 geriatrics in Poland, so they will not be doctors for a very long time. And I dare say they'll never become them. Seeing patients systematically every 2 or 3 months, just as primary healthcare doctors do. Therefore, they cannot be considered to be those who will meet the condition for any such additional limitation of the possibility of abuse. We don't go that far to close the possibility for doctors other than family doctors to issue prescriptions. Of course, doctors specialists will still have such powers, but in some sense softly, through encouragement... Because the patient will be able to get a prescription on the existing rules from every doctor, which is as it is, but if he wants to benefit from this extraordinary relief, which is a free medicine, then he will simply have to And in some sense, we encourage him to do so. In particular, you will benefit from visits to your family doctor. What does it matter, ladies and gentlemen? This is very important for the whole system, because one of the reasons for the huge and almost increasing queues to specialist doctors in recent years is simply that many patients, especially older patients, with chronic diseases, systematically go to these doctors, often only to get another prescription. There are at least a few such diseases. I will mention in particular those that are the most common, such as uncomplicated hypertension, type II diabetes treated with oral medicines, various types of degenerative-rheumatological conditions, hypothyroidism, which are often treated with Hypertensive hypertension in hypertensjologists or cardiologists, type II diabetes in diabetics, rheumatology or degenerative diseases in rheumatologists, hypothyroidism in endocrinologists. And it just doesn't have any medical reason. In this way queues are clogged with these specialists and even soft, so to speak, a relatively small relief in these queues can be saved for those patients who really need to consult a specialist in the narrow field of medicine. Because it's just a chance that these specialists will be a little freed from patients who just visit them to get another prescription. I think if it worked out in a way, I'll say it again, soft... Because there's no ban or warrant, but there's an incentive: do you want free medication? Then go to the family doctor rather than to the specialist's doctor, and to the specialist only if the family doctor asks you to go there and consult him. So that it can become such a soft tool in this area. Finally, the issue of spending. It's kind of inconsistent here in this room, too. Also in the Seym Chamber there were sometimes such arguments of one environment, sometimes even from one mouth, that on the one hand why so little, why not children, why not pensioners, and on the other hand Whether we can afford it or the budget can stand it at all, etc. Well, these two things don't really fit together, but we're trying to be responsible to get in on a systematic basis. Firstly, we will actually spend PLN 125 million this year, in the next PLN 560 million, which represents more than 60% expenditure on subsidies for prescription medicines. There was also a lot of discussion about this, that it was a drop in the sea, that it was a symbolic action. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it can be so that if we count all the dietary supplements, vitamins and everything that is purchased in pharmacies And some people think it's drug spending, although it's not exactly true. This is indeed the amount of PLN 560 million next year, perhaps it is not so big yet. But if we look at spending on medicines of vital health importance, which are prescription medicines, for which annual expenditure in 2014 was at the level of PLN 860 million, then we will see that PLN 564 million is already something. And in the years to come, it's going to be 15%. more, more and more, up to PLN 1 billion, 200 thousand, which it has, seems very important. Perhaps, if the budget is able to afford it, other groups of patients may also be able to think about taking a similar solution or at all solving the financial barrier to accessing medicines in a more general way. But it's time for that. I think we're on the right track for this to work. To sum up, I ask you very much to support this law, which seems to really respond to expectations, perhaps not yet in a wholesome way, but nevertheless solves the problem of the availability of medicines in a group of people who, it seems, deserves to be aware of her needs in this area and which partly does not buy medicines. Definitely, answering the question of whether we're meeting with this... Well, as it happens, four months ago, I was an active family doctor, and the answer is, of course, yes, I am well aware. I've had multiple patients who either didn't buy drugs... You may indirectly have this information: if patients report less frequently than the amount of medicines that have been prescribed, they may be suspected that instead of taking the medicine as recommended, e.g. 2 times a day after 1 tablet, they took it once a day after 1 tablet. This allowed them to come less often and buy these prescriptions less often. These are facts, they're not just intuition. We have to do something about it, because it's just about the safety of our seniors. This law seems to meet these needs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your attention. I would like to ask you to answer specific questions, if any, from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Krzysztof Łanda. By the way, I would like to thank him and all those involved in the preparation of this project very warmly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u546	Thank you very much, Minister. Of course, it's your decision. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. First Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u547	Minister! Listening to you, I've seen more of Prime Minister Szydło with those promises that later broke up than the Minister. But that's the beauty of this government. As a matter of fact, your speech was closer to me in terms of stinginess, reminding me of the advertising of the Italian bikini, because the whole law, I stress, the whole law is burdened, but it has many limitations, which I signaled here in my questions earlier when I said that there could be problems from it. On parole after all... [[Question!]] ...I will support this bill, but before that, I would like to get confirmation that these actions are moving towards what the whole world is going to do. So let's ask you this first. Why have you skipped the limit you have been talking about here widely, the limit of old age, as our constitution says, or actually the age of an old man, defined by WHO, 65 years old, or Okay, let's compromise. The one our ugly government described as retirement age? [[Question...]] Why was the age of 75 accepted instead of the border designated by the World Health Organization? Isn't that the amount you've made... [[Mr. Senator, this is...]] [[Question...]] There was a question. Don't you understand or sleep? [[The question is a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u548	Mr. Senator... Stop! Stop! [[Why is he 75 years old and not 65 years old? This is...]] [[This is the practice of the Civic Platform.]] [[The question is a minute.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senator, I am in charge of the proceedings. [[It's true.]] [[What's the matter with you, Jack?]] Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me in the proceedings. Mr. Senator Rulewski, the problem isn't whether you're asking a question or not, it's that you have a minute to ask questions. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] You've got 1 minute, and it's been 4. [[Is it over? With your statement.]] Please ask questions according to the regulations. If you want to change the rules, we can go back to that, but now we are in the process of asking questions that last no more than 1 minute. You're welcome, Minister. [[Next question.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer that question, I think a few arguments for why this is the limit of 75 years have already been put forward, but I will remind them. In my opinion, the most important argument is that today in Poland there are more than 3 million people aged 75+. Demographic change is inevitable, and this number will grow. At the same time, we have accepted that this law is the first step to improve the fate of the elderly. On the other hand, we must take care of the budget, that is, spending, and putting such borders, not other borders, is a necessity. Besides, it seems that every piece of legislation extends or narrows down the group concerned. That's where you had to take the line. As I say, the elderly, aged 75+, are already 3 million, and there will be much more of them with the following demographic changes. It therefore appears that this limit is very appropriate, on the one hand, for targeted aid directed towards the most deprived persons, those who have such and not other health status, such as that and not other losses, and on the other hand it corresponds to the financial capacity of the State. I would like to stress that the constitution does not, however, talk about helping people who, say, have this, rather than another economic status. He talks about all the elderly, the elderly. They should be given a special status and take into account their specific needs. So I think this line is as appropriate as possible, although it's the first step to... It is not said that soon it will not be reduced to just the age of 65+, or perhaps another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u550	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u551	Minister, I thought I was gonna ask Minister Radziwill a question, so I need to modify it a little. I asked you at the committee meeting whether you were familiar with the research presented by your predecessor, Mr Radziewicz-Winnicki. It was research... The point was that groups that are exempt from payment for drugs consume far more. And then you said you weren't familiar with these tests. That was a while ago, maybe we've already been able to find them. Do you confirm what the Ministry of Health also indicated on the basis of the study, namely that the problem of seniors in Poland is not only the inability to buy medicines, but also their abuse, which is an equally strong problem? Are you familiar with these tests? That's my first question. If I may, Mr. Marshal... [[Of course. Please.]] Minister, I'm talking to Minister Radziwielł. Of course there are definitions of older people in government documents concerning seniors. There are assumptions of a long-term senior policy adopted by the government and there is a limit of 65 years for the elderly and 80 years for the elderly. There is no limit of 75 years in this document that is fundamental to senior policy, one third of which is dedicated to health. So, as I say, it is. I would like to ask you, Minister, do you know how low the rate of replacing salary with retirement in subsequent retirement years, which will reach retirement age, i.e., suppose, 61 and 66 years old. That's the way it is now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u552	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u553	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There is a great deal of research on drug consumption. The question is, what kind of research are we looking at, what kind of drugs? We mean, or, more broadly, what medicinal products are we talking about. Indeed, we had such a discussion at the meeting of the Senate Health Committee. I then replied to the senator that I did not know the research that the former Deputy Minister of Medicine presented. We've ordered two analyses of the drug refunded. I don't have the results yet, because it's not such a simple matter to collect the data, but, of course, we're going to present these results to the senator in particular. 3 independent sources: NFZ, and 2 other companies investigating this market. We mean what I stress, about medicines refunded, so those that are most important from the point of view of preserving the health of society, fighting for the health and life of the sick, those that meet all the criteria of the refund bill, and dozens of these criteria are. It is mainly about effectiveness, security, the ratio of effects to benefits, the impact on the payer's budget, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, we refund the most important medicines in Poland, and at the same time possible to finance and those where the cost/health effect ratio is the best. We'll have, ladies and gentlemen, a detailed analysis of the drug refunded, and then I'll let the senator present it to you. As far as drug abuse is concerned, the mechanism of setting up at the centre of primary healthcare And each one of us is assigned to one medical practice POZ gives us full control, and if not complete, then certainly much more control over the medical prescription in the case of the patient. Today a patient leaves the hospital with a prescription for a medicine called X commercial. Then he goes to a specialist doctor and gets Y from the same group, so these medicines act synergistically. Then he goes to another doctor, he gets Z, again from the same group, and the dose just gets... well, if not lethal, it's very harmful because there's an interaction. If we want to go in the direction where the world is going, where the primary healthcare doctor, often also the family doctor, is to coordinate the treatment of the patient, then this law is a move in the right direction, because it will cause the POZ doctor to coordinate the prescription of medicines made in many different places, in hospitals and by various specialists. Today, because we don't have an IT system, which was emphasized, one specialist doesn't know what the other specialist prescribed to the patient. And now that we've sent him to the primary health care doctor, this doctor will have an insight into what this patient is being treated for. So this is not only about drug abuse, but also about polypragma, drug interactions and, as I say, often also about poisoning the patient, because taking dozens of drugs is simply damaging the digestive tract. I'm afraid I'm not gonna answer that last question right now. I need expert expertise, so I'm really sorry. We're gonna answer that question in writing, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u554	Okay, I'll put it in writing, then. I'd like to ask Senator Mammoth's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u555	Thank you very much. I would like to remind my colleague, Senator Rulewski, because he clearly has a short memory that, in my previous term, I personally applied for free medicine for people over the age of sixty-five with the lowest pension, and your club was against it. [[Now there's a new club.]] Remember that and today don't pretend you don't know it because you're quitting... Your club was against it, you have to remember that. And I have a question for you... [[Question.]] Tell me what the situation is with free medicines in other European countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u556	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! The situation is very different in different countries. Indeed, there are countries where older people are specifically looked after and have free medicines with specific characteristics. In some countries there are so-called. the amount deductible, i.e. own share, i.e. the patient pays actually 100% for certain medicines up to a certain ceiling, and then, above this ceiling, all medicines are free and this applies to most of the population, and the elderly are exempt from aid, even to these grounds. In other cases it is that... It may be that patients get special programs, so even if there is a fee, let's say, a dispensary, or a fixed fee for the packaging of the drug, then there are actually either refunds for the dispensary fee, or just a waiver. For these vulnerable groups Older people are most likely to belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u557	Thank you. Senator Frost. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u558	Minister, one of the indications that only POZ doctors would be able to discharge drugs was that there were some shortcomings in the IT system. Tell me, Minister, at what stage is the creation of this system. How much money I'm going to say has pumped into this system the previous government and why this system doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u559	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u560	Ladies and gentlemen, the system is indeed in a sorry state. Indeed, hundreds of millions of zlotys were spent, and this system simply does not exist. I would remind you that the audit on this matter was not carried out by the current management of the Ministry and Minister Radziwiłł, only by Minister Zembala. It was the previous government that commissioned this audit, the results of which are simply devastating. At the moment, at the Ministry of Health, we are not so much focused on the introduction of an IT system as we are running a rescue operation, and we are trying to save as much money as possible so that we have to deliver as little money as possible to the European Union. I think that's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u561	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u562	Isn't that the amount of 125 million and then 500... Is it related to the fact that the NFZ doesn't spend that much money? So there won't be any more money coming, there won't be any more money. What is the position of the government, the minister of these two opinions, which are negative? What's the budget gonna pay? [[Not so fast!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...in the case of recipes ordained with 100% payment? Is it possible to believe that Minister Radziwiłł and the entire Ministry will make sure that we will not be on the refund of such a red lighthouse with Mexico, but we will catch up with Estonia at least? Doesn't the mitre, which is related to the fact that you have to go to the doctor of the POZ in order to get 3 zł savings, cause blockage or actually failure to function of this law? Do you not think that it is necessary to extend the possibility for a doctor to write POZ on the basis of a specialist's orders or to determine a specialist's doctor... The point is to make it more than 12 months. In other words, to allow the possibility to obtain a prescription for more than 12 months without having to see a doctor in POZ.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u563	You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Can I repeat the questions?]] [[One minute, right? Do I still have time, Mr. Marshal?]] I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u564	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that at the moment, the amount of the refund for medicines is assigned, I would say very strongly to the general expenditure on healthcare in Poland. It was the previous government that adopted the Refund Act this threshold 17% maximum expenditure on reimbursement of medicines. If the two Houses of Parliament and the government consider it necessary to increase and increase the fund for health care, then the fund for reimbursement of medicines will also increase and we will be able to reimburse from the resources available in the NFZ an adequate amount of money than is currently the case. As far as the Refund Act is concerned, it assumes the best possible management of the funds available, as evidenced by the criteria that I mentioned earlier, and most of all by the strongest criterion that has been in operation for several years, i.e. the cost-effectiveness criterion. The cost-to-effect ratio. Medicines that are today 100% free of charge, we cannot include in the group of medicines on the list of "S' because, please countries, these medicines have failed to meet the refund criteria. So these aren't the most important drugs to keep patients healthy and alive. If they were, they'd be on the reimbursement list. I guarantee the senator that since they didn't get on those letters, there must be a very serious reason why they're off the list of medicines refunded. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] [[And we're gonna get ahead of Estonia?]] Excuse me? [[Will we get ahead of Estonia and Mexico as regards the refund?]] And in what ways should we be ahead of each other? Perhaps we've already overtaken... [[Oh, no.]] The question arises as to what criterion it is. [[The scope of the refund, Minister.]] Scope of refund? [[Yes. We've got...]] I think a horse with a row of those who can compare it so easily. We have... The systems are different, we have different wallets, different medications. In our country, such a drug or such may be refunded, but it is not refunded e.g. Estonia or other countries. And vice versa: some drugs will be refunded in Estonia, but they will not be refunded in our country. This depends not only on government policy, but also on the proposals submitted by pharmaceutical companies. So do not make such a direct comparison. And a horse with a row of those who would do it very... That's just one criterion. What is the criterion? [[Amount of refunds in OECD countries.]] Let me put it this way, Mr. Senator... If the senator permits and asks in writing what criterion it is, we will answer it in writing. Thank you very much. [[Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u565	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have 3 people on the list of questions. These are Senators Grodzki, Rulewski, Wojtyla. [[I volunteered, too.]] If I don't hear any objection, I suggest we close... [[There's still a vote.]] I have a dilemma. We can either announce a break now or close the list and limit it to those three... well, four people. [[No, I'm quitting.]] Okay. [[I'm the one who's gonna quit for the sake of the case, too.]] There'll be a five-minute break, then a three-point vote and a break by next week, by Wednesday. I'd like to ask Senator Grodzki's question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u566	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In order to balance the statements of my esteemed colleague, Senator Mammothov, I will say that the new PO club has tabled an amendment to the budget for 600 million for free drugs and we have pointed out the sources of funding so that we are in a tie. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It was a digression. And seriously, Minister... We must realise that this law will enter into force only when the list of medicines is established free of charge. Just because we approve it, it won't mean anything, because it says in the bill that this list is to be prepared by September 1st at the latest. My question is concrete: is it possible for her to be prepared earlier? As regards increasing the financing of the health system, we fully agree with the Minister that every step in this direction is very good; there is no doubt. My doubts about this bill concern details. Several tens of thousands of people are discharged from hospitals every day, and if you take into account the clinics at the hospital, it's several hundred thousand. Most of them are older people. If a doctor from a hospital or hospital clinic prescribes at least 1 medicine from a free list, then most of these people I'm sure he'll go to the family doctor to get a prescription free of charge. [[Ask me a question.]] I am directing a question to the Minister as a prominent family doctor. Doesn't that, in quotes, block the family doctors' system? All the time, I insist on geriatrics with stubbornness, because there are so few of them that even if they abuse it a little, they won't break the system. And the specific question is: didn't the College of Family Doctors, family doctors' agreements and the General Medical Chamber raise objections about this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u567	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The deadline for 1 September due to the scope of analytical work is still very tight and difficult to maintain. In fact, any inclusion in the list of medicines for the senior requires a financial analysis of the type of budget impact, i.e. the impact on the payer's budget. Given that these configurations can be very much, this is a gigantic analytical work. According to this law, we have until 1 September at the latest to announce a list of medicines for the senior, but of course the draft of this notice must be made much earlier. I think that at least 3, 4 weeks before 1 September we should pass this project to the public for consultation. There are 3 and 4 for public consultation and for attention from all stakeholders. So we have to carry out very intensive analytical work during these few months. I'm afraid it's not possible to shorten that term. I think it's very short anyway. And will it be so, ladies and gentlemen, that the patients will travel to the family doctors? Yeah, I think a lot of patients are gonna step up, as the senator said, to family doctors. However, I think it is very good that they will go to them for the reasons I gave earlier. Please note that we include not only a POZ doctor here, but also a POZ nurse who may issue prescriptions for these medicines. It seems to me that this system will not block the family doctor, and the benefits of this system, which I mentioned earlier, outweigh any risks. We can't include geriatric doctors because we'd break out of this whole system. What were the reasons why it had to be a family doctor, I told you earlier, but I assure you that as soon as the IT system is ready, geriatric doctors will surely be one of the first groups of specialist doctors to receive the right to finance free medicines for seniors. Mr. Senator, of course, we will answer whether the General Medical Council and the College of Family Doctors have made comments to us. They reported, as I can see, that's where the principal says... I just want to say that the public consultation is extremely serious and many of the changes that have been made to us as comments have been included in the project. Hence, among others. We have these preliminary and preliminary ones for doctors who prescribe pro auctore medications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u569	And last question, Senator Wojtyła. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u570	Minister, I'm just asking you a brief question. As I understand it, the prescription of medicines by the family doctor and the IT system I believe that some kind of RUM, which was in force in the years 1993-1999, is designed to prevent the escalation of costs related to drug spending for seniors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u571	Like I said, a patient could get prescriptions from different doctors right now. The IT system does not combine this information when another doctor prescribes the prescription, so we would not have had any information that the patient had received a prescription for the same medicine from many, several or even a dozen doctors. The fact that a prescription is written by a doctor of primary health care, and we are assigned only to one practice of family doctors, so our documentation is in one place, guarantees that this system will be tight. And this is at the moment the only way to ensure the integrity of the system, at least in this respect. I've talked about others before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u572	Thank you very much. That concludes the question phase. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Augustyn and Senator Grodzki. I declare a five-minute recess, followed by a vote on points one, three and six. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 00 minutes 07 to 00 minutes 12]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u573	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, which is published in print No 124 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, President Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. Senator, report, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, we've already asked you to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Legislation. The committees adopted amendments 4, 15, 17, 19, 23, 34 and 38 when they discussed the amendments tabled at the meeting today. These amendments were supported by the committees. The other amendments were not accepted. Minority proposals have been made, but I will not quote these proposals, there are minority rapporteurs who, if they want, can do so. I ask the Senate to support these amendments, which the committees recommend.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u575	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We ask you to accept all those proposals that have not received the recognition of the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u577	Already? Yes? Good. Thank you very much. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Lydia Staron, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I'm gonna say a few words after all. The minority proposals I want to talk about are Amendments 1, 11 and 24. I'm gonna talk about them because they're relevant. The conclusions we've made with a group of senators, including the Senators of Law and Justice, are that you can't... I mean, we want to disable the properties that are listed in the monument register. These are real estate that really destroys and doesn't interest individual farmers. These are real estate... There's quite a lot of them in Warmia and Mazury. These are also properties that are in private hands. If today this bill is passed in this form, then the person who has, for example, Some little farm that's got a broken building... She bought it once, renovated it... We must realise that under the care of the monument conservator... Now this person will not be able to sell it individually to anyone else, only to an individual farmer, because it is on agricultural land. I'm not telling you to keep these buildings so that they don't destroy... We want to give you the opportunity... The point is to make these monuments possible, because these are all monuments, to be disposed of. This is the case for Amendment 1, which should be voted on together with Amendments 11 and 24. The second amendment is identical to the amendment by Senator Waldemar B Member State, who spoke quite a bit about it. This is an amendment that allows the acquisition of land, not necessarily in this form, up to 2 ha. And the last amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would very much like to draw attention to her. I just want you to listen for a moment, because she's important. These are bailiff executions, these are execution procedures. This bill makes people in the countryside, indebted farmers, who today have all kinds of commitments... This bill will lead to the Ministry of Justice working on the bill on bailiffs and executions. He's working to make sure there's some kind of oversight, so that the creditor and the debtor have some rights. And this bill will literally get sold out for the invaluable property of debtors. Neither the creditor will be satisfied nor the debtor will be able to dispose of his property at a market, normal price. Only the bailiffs will be able to use it. Why? Because... [[Voice from the room: Correction number?]] Amendment 32. And because in a situation like this, when there's an operation and an estimate, and when, of course, we're selling it in a enforcement process, in a court of law, who can we sell it to? Not market value, not normal bidding. We're just looking for an individual farmer to buy it. Yeah, a horse with a row ago. I know the bailiffs. Who will not benefit from such a situation? And then what's the situation? That for pennies, the real estate of these farmers will be sold. I'm just finishing up. In addition, we have the clause of the C.P.C., that today the decision to judge is also an executive title. So these people, if it's farm property built, they're gonna hit the pavement. You won't need anything else, you won't even need to apply for an eviction. That's the situation. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to these 3 amendments and I ask them very much to support the amendments No. 1, No. 11, No. 24, the same... And number 21, number 46 and number 32 on execution proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u579	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? In the course of the discussion, the conclusions were submitted by Mr Senator, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr Piotr Zientarski, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Lydia Staroń, Senator Margareta Budner, Senator Jan Żaryn, Zbigniew Cichoń, Robert Mątow, Józef Zając, Jan Dobrzyński, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Maciej Łuczak, Bogdan Klich, Kazimierz Kleina, Jan Filip Libicki, Jerzy Czerwiński, Waldemar Bonkowski, Grażyna Szark, Aleksander Bobko, Wiesław Dobkowski, Józef Łyczak, Jan Maria Jackowski, Łukasz Mikołaczyk, Andrzej Wojtyła, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Mieczysław Golba, Krystian Probierz, Andrzej Miedz Miedź Miedzy Miedrzej Miedzyk, Jagiek. In addition, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń was the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission. Would any of you like to take... You're welcome, Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I am not in this mode to recommend amendments, but this time I consider the situation to be exceptional, and therefore I ask the High House to support three amendments: Nos 7, 10 and 44. These amendments relate to situations where non-agricultural property is leased or sold which are within the limits of agricultural holdings and could be used for other purposes than agricultural, economic type, including possibly palaces. If we do not vote positive, these objects will simply be wasted, because they will not be able to find their host and will not be able to develop these objects. The second amendment deals with the possibility of selling or leasing agricultural property to persons who are not residents of that municipality in which the land is available for sale or lease. This is important, especially in those areas where there is hunger for the earth. In Kashubach, for example. I've already given this example. There are municipalities where farmers are good, willing and young, who would like to buy, acquire or lease land, but according to this law they will not be able to do so outside their own municipality, although for example in another district there is a surplus of state land. But they won't be able to use this land. [[Scandal, scandal.]] It's a shame. It's a shame. In fact, we are blocking the development of family farms in this way. I therefore ask that these amendments be treated with kindness. And if there is any error in these amendments, the Sejm can eventually reject these amendments... one of them. But I am now suggesting that the High House back them up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u581	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u582	Dear Senators, these amendments, which, of course, should pass But we realize that they won't pass... In connection with this only amendment... [[Voice from the room: You don't know that.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We vote.]] [[That's what we're voting for, without that we don't know...]] The only real solution is to reject this bill, which is a bad law... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...and which will create new problems.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-13-senat-15-1.u583	Thank you very much to the marshal for his words. Do any of the Senators mentioned above want to speak again? No? Thank you. I would remind you that Senator Leszek Piechota withdrew his request for point III.31 in print No. 124 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. Thank you very much. [[Voices from the hall: Too quiet, too quiet...]] You're not hearing me, are you? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Uh-huh. Okay, then I'll... I think I'm talking out loud, but okay, I'm gonna talk out loud right now... [[Joy in the Chamber]] But as I say quieter, you don't talk. If I speak louder, you speak. But okay, I'm gonna talk out loud. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed to the vote on the motion of the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Piotr Ziientarski to reject the bill. Oh, that's why the senator asked me to speak up now. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and of Senator Marek Martynowski to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted against. They were all against it. [[Voting No 2]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection of the law and of the proposal for adoption of the law without amendments, we shall proceed to vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 11 and 24 should be voted on together. They disable the property laws that are monuments from the strictest. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 37 were in favour, 49 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] Amendments 1, 11 and 24 were rejected. Amendment 2 increases the area of agricultural property up to 5 ha, which can be sold from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 Senators, 28 votes against, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendment 3 allows the sale of agricultural property for the enlargement of the family farm from the Treasury. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 4 eliminates the expression "or'linking the constituent sentences into a valid logical relationship and includes the possibility of selling parts of the property in the wording of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 deletes... [[Voice from the room: No. 6.]] Yeah, number six. Amendment 6 maintains the right of first acquisition of real estate for persons without real estate ownership in the Polish People's Republic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 excludes the condition of residence in the municipality in which the property is situated from the category authorising participation in the tender. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 55 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 7 was rejected. Amendment 8 makes it possible to sell agricultural property to farmers residing in the county where the property is located in the first place. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 9 and 28 should be voted on together. These amendments allow the acquisition of agricultural property to persons who have inherited agricultural property with a total area of at least 1 ha and still have land of such area. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 10]] Amendments 9 and 28 were rejected. Amendments 11 and 44 should be voted on together. These amendments introduce... [[Voice from the room: No. 10.]] Amendments 10 and 44 should be voted on together. These amendments introduce preferences in the trading of built-in and unusable properties for agricultural production. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendments 10 and 44 were rejected. Amendments 12 and 36 should be voted on together. These amendments delete the provision setting out the elements of the contract for the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendments 12 and 36 were rejected. Amendment 13 introduces the correct way of calculating the provisions in the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 13 was rejected. Amendment 14 includes partnerships in the wording of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome to apply... No, not yet... Now I'm asking you to give me the results. 88 senators voted, 8 against, 80 against. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 15 introduces restrictions on the acquisition of real estate for persons holding shares or shares in parent companies over a company that owns agricultural real estate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 84 were in favour, 4 against. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 15 was accepted. Amendment 16 complements the catalogue of entities which cannot participate in restricted tenders. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 6 were in favour, 81 against. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 16 was rejected. Amendments 17 and 34 will be followed by a joint vote. These amendments allow young farmers who have obtained aid from EU funds to be tendered, provided that they have completed their professional qualifications. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 17]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 18 introduces a condition for exemption from the obligation to conduct a farm on the grounds of the health of the obliged person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 18 was accepted... no... Amendment 19 correctly typifies the offence of making a false statement. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 84 were in favour, 1 was against, 1 held back. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 19 was accepted. Amendments 20 and 45 must be voted together. These amendments exclude from the rigour the law on the formation of the agricultural system agricultural parcels with an area of less than 2 ha. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 42 were in favour, 43 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 21 and 46 should be voted on together. These amendments exclude from the rigour the law on the formation of agricultural real estate with an area of less than 2 ha. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 36 were in favour, 52 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendments 21 and 46 were rejected. About the corrections... [[Voice from the room: Right away...]] Yeah, we're right through. Amendments 22 and 47 will be voted together. They exclude agricultural parcels of less than 1 ha from the rigour of the agricultural regime. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 40 were in favour, 48 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendments 22 and 47 were rejected. Amendment 23 excludes from the rigour the Act on the formation of agricultural real estate with an area of less than 0,3 ha. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 23 was accepted. Amendment 25 modifies the definition of a loved one by extending it to a conniving person. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 52 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 26 extends the definition of a loved one to those in real, common life. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 27 aligns the conditions for exclusion from the strict rules of the agricultural system law with the conditions of Article. 2 laws to suspend the sale of real estate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 29 eliminates preferences in the acquisition of land by churches and religious unions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 38 were in favour, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 30 limits the right for churches and religious unions to acquire real estate for donations or life sentences and for churches and religious associations registered until the end of 2015. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 54 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 31 is addictive... [[Voice out of the O.R.: Retreated.]] Now Amendment 32, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Amendment 32 excludes from the strict rules the law on the formation of the agricultural system of real estate acquired in enforcement proceedings. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 38 were in favour, 50 against. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 33 eliminates the obligation to demonstrate that there was no possibility to dispose of the property to farmers or other privileged entities from the terms of acceptance of the acquisition of agricultural property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 35 eliminates the obligation to reside in the municipality in which the property is situated from the terms of consent for the acquisition of agricultural property for a period of 5 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 37, 39, 40 and 41 are voted on together. They extend the scope of the provisions to companies that are partners in a commercial company that owns agricultural real estate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 3 were in favour, 83 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 32]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 38 makes it impossible to apply the provisions on the right of pre-emption, even in the event of the transfer of shares to a loved one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 85 were against, 2 against. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 42 amends the definition of an individual farmer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 30 for, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 43 deletes the provision allowing the agency to acquire property in court in the event of failure to fulfil its obligations by the purchaser of the property. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 48 amends the conditions for excluding agricultural land not exceeding 0,5 ha from the Act on the formation of agricultural land. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 for, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 49 increases to 1 ha the area of land built on the date of entry into force of the Act, which will be traded on the existing rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 for, 58 against. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 50 exempts from rigors the amendment of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system of farmers who have received aid for young farmers under European measures. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 29 for, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 51 exempts from rigors the amendment of the Act on the formation of the agricultural system of real estate located within the administrative boundaries of cities, with an area of up to 0.5 ha, which will be devoted on the date of the entry into force of the Act in the study of the conditions and directions of spatial development of the municipality for purposes other than agricultural purposes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 52 introduces the principle of direct action of the new provisions in proceedings under amended laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 40]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 53 introduces the principle of direct action of the new provisions into legal acts relating to the exercise of the right of pre-emption. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 for, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 54 extends the existing rules of residence to 10 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 42]] The amendment was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 29 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 43]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the suspension of the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws. We would like to return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments of Senate prints Nos 117 A and 117 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 26 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 44]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemoration of Józef Czapski. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 136 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the memory of Józef Czapski. Thank you very much. I declare my break until April 20th until 11:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at 00 minutes 46]]
