ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Marcin Duszek, Mr Krzysztof Kubow and Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Arkadiusz Carrot. I consider the minutes of the 18th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. At the 18th meeting of the Sejm, he did not vote on the motion to reject at first reading the draft law amending the law on days off from work and certain other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including this vote. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016, - amending the Customs Law Act and certain other laws, - the rules governing the remuneration of persons managing certain companies. The designs are 515, 513 and 514 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Research Institutes, - on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and the Law on the establishment and payment of welfare benefits, - about investments in wind power plants. The reports shall be in prints 483, 499 and 365, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Higher Education; - amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law on amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in Nos 503 and 504 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring, - the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, - about energy efficiency. The reports shall be printed 502, 500 and 455 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The National Defence Commission has submitted a report on the government draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission submitted a report on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The committee's report is in print No 505. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on: - information of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber on the results of the anti-market checks on invoices documenting fictitious activities, - a report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2015 of the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention adopted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the effects of the government infertility treatment programme by means of in vitro fertilisation, changes in the oncology package concerning, among others. abolish in the provisions of the act financing oncology without a limit and drastically reduce the valuation of cardiological benefits, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. At the moment, Ms Agnieszka Kołcz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club, made a formal request. There you go. [[Wheel, not Wheel.]] [[It's a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On yesterday's Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requested that the agenda be supplemented with information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the explanation of the circumstances accompanying the arrest of Igor S. by police officers on the Wrocław market and his later death at the police station at ul. Three men's in Wroclaw. Mr. Marshal! We are aware that there was a request for this information to be presented during the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, that is the decision of your marshal, and that, Mr Marshal, there has been a human tragedy. [[And when you guys were smacking and shooting, was that okay?]] For a few days in Wrocław, crowds of people have been gathering, people who object to what has happened, and we therefore believe that such a serious matter should not be addressed to the committee's meeting, but should be dealt with in plenary of the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! From here, but also at the committee's substantive meetings, we have repeatedly pointed out a lot of concern, many irregularities in the Ministry led by Mr Mariusz Błaszczak... [[In the last eight years.]] ...and asked for an explanation of total chaos... [[For eight years!]] ...mastered both at the headquarters and at the voivodship headquarters. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Unfortunately, the events of the last few days only increase our anxiety and concern... [[So is ours.]] ...for the safety of every single citizen, Madam Member. [[Shoot the miners and explain.]] And the words of Minister Błaszczak, who says that Poles can still feel safe and that Minister Mariusz Błaszczak gives a guarantee that he will not put Poland and Poles in danger, unfortunately they are only empty slogans and empty words at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Sit down.]] Therefore, Mr. Marshal, we are again asking your marshal to complete the agenda with information about the tragic events that took place last Sunday at one of the police stations in Wrocław. I'm talking about the tragic death of a 25-year-old man in custody. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's not nice that you make a mess of it.]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u3	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that this was mentioned at the meeting of the Seniors Convention. I've made a decision to pass this on to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs... [[That's the way it's supposed to ……]] ...recognizing that the Forum of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs is more appropriate at this stage to discuss the situation that took place in Wrocław, the situation that the club's letter is talking about and about. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 12.30, - Legal notice - hour. 12.30, - Health-- hour. 12.30, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 14, - Economy and Development - h.m. 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Social and Family Policy together with the Committee on Education, Science and Youth - hours 16, - Extraordinary for changes in codification - hour. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16.45, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Energy - hour 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u5	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring (prints No 215 and 502). I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to submit a report to the committee. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I took part in the honour and responsibility of presenting a report to the finance committee on the work on the Government's draft act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring. It's a very important project and a very important bill. I would like to say that this report, which I submit on behalf of the High House committee in the form of a 502 printing, is the result of a great deal of work, a long, hard work for all who have participated in this. In particular, I would like to thank the special subcommittee which, under the direction of the present Janusz Szewczak, has done a great deal of work. I would like to remind you that on 10 February the finance committee established a special subcommittee that took care of this project. How extensive is this project? Enough to say: 387 articles. The mere justification of this law in the original project covered almost 300 pages. It's a very professional job. It is the response, the response of the Polish parliament, the Polish government to the requirements of the EU directives, and these in turn have been established as a necessity resulting from the conclusions of the crisis, which has taken place throughout the world, including Europe. It's about the security of banking systems. How powerful are banks and banking systems? Suffice it to say that in the European Union all assets of cooperative banks are 320% GDP. Thus, the thesis, which was created for the benefit of many important, influential environments, that banks could not fail, caused light-handed events, which resulted in the need to force, to be bluntly, to pump more than EUR 2 trillion from state resources into the banking system. And that is why, first, the European Union... and today, here in Parliament, we have a bill before us, which may not be wonderful and does not give absolute certainty, but - and here is probably the full consent of the opposition and all of us - these solutions will increase, improve the security of the Polish banking system. In the form of a report on the work of the committee, which, as I have already said, followed the report submitted by the subcommittee, I will say that the subcommittee worked through seven meetings and, as a result of a long Benedictine work, presented us with a report in a very comprehensive form, with various proposals and proposals, very often variants. This has been worked out and we have a print project 502, which we propose the High House to accept. Of all the amendments that have been proposed and rejected by the committee, the applicants believe that eight deserve consideration and the verdict of the High House, and that is why they are presented and proposed in the form of minority proposals in the report. They are all signed by three Members: Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Mrs Bożena Szydłowska and Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. Mrs. Szydłowska is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You have also signed up to President Skowronska. Well, you're above all else. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I understand. I'm honored, and I'm sorry I didn't mention it. I'm telling you how signed it is in the print itself, but here the dispute, I think, will not. As rapporteur, I will still say to the High House that the most acute discussion has taken place in a number of points. One area was - a little more traditionally - the issue of SKOKs and the location of the SKOK system in the whole project. It was emotional, but not so cardinal. I think the final findings will be some kind of compromise. There is also an amendment which was tabled at the meeting of the finance committee and which concerned - and so is the report - the gradual reduction in the contribution of cooperative banks to the protection fund... [[Guaranteed assets.]] ...the guaranteed measures. The EU directives exempt the imposition of measures, in other words, from freezing measures that should work, which is why cooperative banks have accepted this without enthusiasm or, in fact, very critically. On the other hand, the arguments put forward by the government are that as we strengthen the bank's financial guarantee fund and gradually spread over the years of the investigation to such a strength that this system is safe, parallelly gradually, I stress, gradually, flexibly reduce the burden on cooperative banks. This is a compromise solution, two parallel paths must meet each other. That is why this solution, according to the finance committee, deserves support. There was another thread that goes beyond the matter of this law. It's about the future of the BS. Some banks in Poland would like to get together and opt here, proposed a reduction in capital limits for the creation of association banks. But this is a separate discussion, and for the record, as rapporteur, I mention this here, because it did not concern this matter. To conclude, I would like to ask the High House to accept the project. Thank you again for your enormous work. I think that this project - which I did not say and what is very important - is not an amendment, because the scale of change and novelty was so huge that at the beginning of the work the amendment was abandoned, and the model was adopted - and today we have this fruit - to create a whole new law. It was the work that is behind us, but the most important thing ahead of us is the adoption of the project by the High House, which I humbly ask on behalf of the finance committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u7	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Sasin, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe two sentences on the origins of this bill, because it's important. As we all know, the financial crisis that started in 2007 has shown that there are no effective instruments at both EU and national level to deal with bankrupt or failing financial institutions. The need to have an appropriate legal framework for the compulsory restructuring of financial institutions to enable the rapid restructuring of the insolvency-threatening entity, regardless of its size and market links, led to work in the European forum which resulted in the adoption by the European Parliament of 12 June 2014 of a Directive published in the Official Journal of the European Union as Directive 2014/59/EU. This Directive requires Member States to implement in their national legal systems the powers to conduct compulsory restructuring proceedings by means of instruments: primarily the acquisition of a company, then bridge institutions, the separation of assets or finally the redemption or conversion of debts. This directive must, of course, be implemented in the legal systems of the Member States. As a result, work was also undertaken in Poland to prepare an appropriate bill. This work continued during the previous parliamentary term. They were run by the previous government. It lasted for quite a long time, took about two years. Finally, it turned out that, despite a long period of preparation, a project that had gone to Parliament requires quite profound changes. The project was large, extensive, containing three hundred and dozen articles of very complex matter. Nevertheless, the Committee on Public Finance and the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions led by Mr Szewczak in a very short period of time worked this project despite, as I say, the need to make far-reaching changes to this project. This need resulted in more than 200 amendments to this project. Of course, one might ask why this project was so underdeveloped despite such a long period of preparation. However, this is already a question which I hope will be answered by the representatives of the party that previously ruled, the Civic Platform. As a result of this work, we have today a project which has been submitted to the High House as a report by the Committee on Public Finance. I will no longer discuss the details of this project, because Mr Cymanski did this to me. I would like to ask the High House to accept this proposal despite some discussions that have not yet been closed. I think that they will continue, also in the Senate forum, which, following the Seym, will examine this law. I think that there may still be a need for some detail, there will still be some changes in this project, which we see at this point in time, at this stage. However, we are required sometimes, because we are also threatened with financial consequences in the form of penalties by the European Commission if we continue this project. As I say, we did not have this temporary comfort in the Committee on Public Finance to examine this law in the way it certainly deserves, and to address all aspects that involve the proposed provisions, but as far as we could, in fact, in a relatively short time we leaned on this law. At this stage, the Law and Justice Club would like to make one more amendment to this project at the second reading stage. This amendment concerns the modification of the regulation whereby the mandates of the members of the Banking Authority of the Guarantee Fund operating under the current Bank Guarantee Fund Act expire. I'm handing this amendment over to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u10	Please accept this amendment and then also accept the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mrs Izabel Leszczyn will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding print number 215. The Law and Justice Government, continuing the work of the Civic Platform government to implement the BRR and DGSD directives, had a chance to behave decently. You've had a chance to break up with the long-standing sloppy tradition of applying a discount tariff for the SKOKs. Then you could at least at least redeem yourselves a little against the defrauded depositors of the SKOKs and taxpayers who have been suffering losses for several years from the failure of the SKOKs. Unfortunately, the PiS government did not take this opportunity. Mr Sasin, the amendments would have been much less if it had not been for the amendments of the JCCs. Moreover, the changes to the law introduced at the level of the Sejm, often with the permission of the government party, and sometimes without this consent, are changes introduced under the dictation of representatives of the SKOKs. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance were more SKOK protectors than the security guards of the financial sector. I'm saying this with great regret, actually with scandal. The introduction by the PiS of numerous breaches for the SKOKs in the process of forced restructuring is the creation of gaps in the financial system. Taxpayers and bank clients will pay for these gaps, but the law and justice will be responsible. The advantage of SKOKs, especially for cooperative banks, does not find any economic or social justification, because cooperative banks they are also small local institutions that do not have a chance to compete with commercial banks. We therefore call on the government's representatives to ensure that the rules on guaranteeing deposits and compulsory restructuring are the same for cooperative banking and cash registers. If the aim is to protect Polish capital rather than SKOKs, why does the government forget about cooperative banks? The amount of the compulsory restructuring fund for the SKOKs is ten times lower than that for the banks. And after all, it was the SKOKs who sucked 5 billion PLN out of the Bank Guarantee Fund. Mr Cymanski, a Polish taxpayer would not add a zloty to the banking sector, which was healthy in Poland. It had to be added because the mismanaged SKOKs fell. [[We'll see about that.]] Banks, including cooperative banks, have fallen into this fund to rescue SKOKs, which on a daily basis support non-profit loans from farmers and loans from small family businesses. The history of relations between SKOKs and PiS is unfortunately a sad story The victims of ordinary people who trusted in advertising entrusted the SKOKs with their lives' savings. Unfortunately, this story began in 2006 when the V Sejm voted by the coalitions of PiS, Self-Defense and LPR, but excluded SKOK-i from this supervision. Today, I see you're doing a little bit of the same thing because you want to recall the members of the Financial Supervision Committee and probably appoint the PiS activists to this committee; they'll take care of the interests of the SKOKs. Congratulations. But how can you not be ashamed to do that? It is also worth remembering that people have regained their wasted, embezzled savings in SKOKs up to 100,000. The euro is only due to changes in the law introduced by the Civic Platform in 2012. We saved people's private money, but we saved them from the anger of the prominent PiS activists who are still sitting in parliament today. Trouble with the SKOKs, I'm afraid. They're not over. The resistance of the PiS, which caused a long delay in the introduction of supervision of the cash registers, led to a number of irregularities. Instead of protecting the security of the SKOK system, the National Cash register managed a robbery financial economy and brought PLN 83 million to Luxembourg in 2013, instead of supporting the condition of the Polish cash registers. The extraordinary subcommittee on SKOKs in the last term, on the basis of the data of the Financial Supervision Committee, presented a devastating and irrefutable report. The next step in this term should be the committee of inquiry. And the behaviour of the parliamentary majority will be a litmus paper and an answer to the question of whether the PiS has something to hide about the SKOKs. [[We'll see about that.]] Mr. Marshal... [[Sure it does.]] Marshal, I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I submit five amendments - amendments aimed at, among others, elimination of unequal treatment of entities from the Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] and although partially deviating from the privileged position of the SKOKs. We depend on the adoption of these amendments on the decision to support or not to do so - in our assumptions and in essence - a very important and necessary law which the Law and Justice have unfortunately significantly destroyed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u13	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I wanted to speak on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee system and the forced restructuring, prints No 215 and 502. First of all, there would not be this debate if there was no financial crisis in 2007, because the crisis in 2007 showed, not only in Europe, but around the world, that moral gambling and raising risks in the financial markets for state money are very good. And as long as we don't eliminate the reasons, which is that we're not really going to debate whether banks are responsible for what they're doing, because they're taking excessive investment risks, without taking account of the consequences, because you're always going to be saving their situation, and you're always going to be pulling out sick banks with taxpayers' money for ears until we verify it, there's always going to be crises, which are going to happen for about 10 to 15 years, bank crises, financial crises, and increasingly banks are going to go after taxpayers' money, driving you into a spiral of public debt that you can't deal with. The European Union too, unfortunately. The European Commission has decided that the interests of the banking community should be protected more, to a greater extent, than those of citizens and taxpayers. And that's why we have what we have. We need to adopt this resolution, in accordance with the BRR and DGSD directives, because we are being threatened with penalties and sanctions for not adopting solutions pushed in the European Union on time. It was hard work, and I saw these three hundred and dozen laws myself. And here I personally would like to congratulate Mr Szewczak on his hard work in the subcommittee. And there wasn't much time. And I think there are still dozens of amendments in... I think the Senate is going to file a few dozen amendments in legal terms and send us a few dozen amendments. On the other hand, the discussion that has developed in the course of the work on this law is somewhat outside of this law. Because, in fact, as you have just heard from Members, both Mr Cymanski and Mrs Leszczyna, the discussion has developed on whether the SKOKs in the public finance system are being treated in an overprivileged manner, or whether the SKOKs are to be treated as well as the banks and cooperative banks, or whether they are to be treated in a completely different way. Secondly, whether the cause of the collapse of the SKOKs is a political, business cause, or even related to the activities of the services and other elements which have contributed significantly to what was happening in the SKOKs market and in the financial market. I think this discussion should be excluded from this case. I know it can't be done, because the corrections... [[How?]] ...and certain elements of the system solutions concern something like this, but it seems to me that we are disturbing the real discussion, which is whether taxpayers should cover the moral gambling of banks. We are disrupting this discussion and focus mainly on the discussion: SKOK-i versus the banking system. Because both the SKOKs are not blameless and the banking system, first of all the banking system is not blameless because it has, in my opinion, too privileged - not monopolistic - but some cartel position and margins that generate the banking system, not due to competitiveness, but to some extra pension that should not be in this system. This may give us a stable system, but we also have an exceptionally expensive system when compared to systems in European Union countries in terms of credit margins and other elements or commissions. Recently, an article has been published which shows that commercial banks apply loan margins up to 35% on an annual basis. Where's the country where the banks allow themselves this kind of position? If they weren't in a cartel position, if they weren't an oligopole, actually operating, they would never have allowed themselves to be in a competitive market. [[Applause]] [[Well done, sir.]] But - I still have 15 seconds - like I said, the SKOKs aren't blameless either... [[We ask for examples.]] ...and their position should also be sanctioned somehow, but not necessarily during the debate on this bill. Kukiz Poselski Club15 [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be He supported the adoption of this law, but we will still wonder, because we do not know what amendments you have adopted to the end. We haven't seen them yet. We will be thinking about these amendments, especially those that concern the SKOKs, and we will start to consider them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I recommend the subcommittee report, Mr, and the KNF report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The aim of this law was indeed to bring Polish legislation into line with European Union legislation, since it implements two EU directives to the Polish legal system. The first changes the rules for guaranteeing the solvency of deposits in Poland by the Bank's Guarantee Fund and aims to increase the safety of savings customers, while the second sets out the framework and principles for BFG's remedial and forced restructuring activities in financial institutions in Poland. Unfortunately, as already mentioned here, during the work on this law, the care of the PiS about the interests of the near Law and Justice environment of the SKOKs significantly distorted the original purpose of this law, especially as regards the privileged position of the SKOKs. During the committee's work, the most discussions really focused on whether the new law on BFG should include cooperative savings and credit banks or not. One of the options very strongly pushed with the participation of the Head of the sub-committee of Mr Szewczak over the years associated with the SKOKs assumed a significant weakening of the control of the Financial Supervision Commission over this group of institutions. Why is this topic so important? Let us remind you that three years ago, deposits in SKOKs were not covered by the KNF control and the payment of guaranteed deposits. During this time, in the event of the collapse of one of the cashiers, customers would simply remain penniless - and that must be said explicitly. Fortunately, in 2013, when the Parliamentary Club was opposed, SKOK Law and Justice were included in the supervision of KNF and customer deposits were covered by guarantees. Politicians and those defending the SKOKs at that time probably did not want their inconsistencies and the spectrum of insolvency to be publicly discovered. When KNF took charge of SKOK's supervision, he threw out most of the cashier managers, accusing them of incompetence and errors in the functioning of these institutions. In 2013 alone, 40 out of 55 banks introduced resolution programmes and two commission boards. Two SKOK-i collapsed in 2014 - the Community and Volomin have proved completely insolvent. Customers received their deposits back only and only because in 2013 SKOK-i were covered by the Bank Guarantee Fund, i.e. if Parliament listened to the Law and Justice statements, customers, as in the Amber Gold event, would simply be without money. [[There were only six times as many here.]] The liquidation and acquisitions by banks were held by SKOK-i, in which the money - PLN 5.5 billion - held close to 450 thousand. Members. According to the financial report of the National Bank of Poland, the situation of the SKOK sector remains difficult and requires the strengthening of repair and restructuring processes, and Law and Justice again opposes it. At the end of April this year, 43 SKOKs were active, including two with the participation of the commissary board. 36 cashiers are subject to the obligation to develop and implement corrective programmes. So far, KNF has accepted corrective programmes in only 10 of them. To make matters worse, only five of the programmes are implemented in line with the assumptions made. KNF continues to conduct administrative proceedings for the establishment of a commission board in as many as 17 cash registers, including the National Cashier. As we read in the opinion of the KNF presented on the occasion of this law, due to the practical exhaustion of the stabilisation fund's resources to carry out remedial actions in the SKOK sector, the KNF examines the possibility of further remedial actions involving banks. In this situation, the amendments tabled by the representative of the National Casa, which I will remind you, were to exclude the SKOKs from this law and put them in a privileged position, we regard them as impudence and arrogance. And we call on the representatives of Law and Justice to take account of the tragic situation in the sector at a later stage in the work on the law. Let us remember that, in fact, the funds raised in the guarantee fund are the money that all bank and financial institutions customers are throwing themselves into. The costs of inability and irresponsibleness of some of these financial institutions are simply borne by Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is also necessary to reconsider the possibility that BFG's contributions constitute a cost for financial institutions to obtain revenue. The exclusion of these charges from costs will make Poles simply pay more.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u17	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u18	Support for this law depends on what goes on in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is my pleasure to say that the President of the Chamber of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Mladen Bosić, together with the delegation, is listening to our deliberations today. We cordially welcome our esteemed guests. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. Now in the mode of correcting Mr Jan Szewczak. You're welcome. [[The voice from the hall: But Mr. Szewczak did not speak.]] [[What corrigendum? Get your resume straightened out. There's no name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u20	It's dead. You've even been in the O.R. and you haven't heard it? [[I can quote the statement in which the name came up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u21	You're welcome, take it easy. [[Speaking from the room: He did not speak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u22	But you mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u23	Name name... Ladies and gentlemen, it would have been corrected by now. Okay, you're welcome, quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u24	Ladies and gentlemen! A very short request. Well, this bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u25	But I want your statement straightened out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u26	This law is so complex, so large and so important that there were fundamental doubts as to whether it should include certain entities at all. The EU law and directive speak about financial institutions which are systemicly important. Since it was considered that the Civic Platform and the previous coalition considered that SKOK-i are systemicly important, because it is 0.7% the financial market, it is these entities that must have the same rights in this Directive and in this law as all others. This is the only reason why such changes have been made and such amendments have been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. High Izbo! It is my pleasure to inform you that Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is currently listening to our deliberations. The parliamentary and ethics immunity from the Hungarian National Assembly, the chairman of the delegation, and Mr György Rubovszky, President of the Committee on Justice. We welcome our next guests very warmly. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Now I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to give her position to the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the government print project No 215. Report from the committee - print No 502. At the beginning of my speech, I will say a few words about the main objectives and principles of the Banking Guarantee Fund, because it is an important project for financial security reasons. The project is the implementation of two EU Directives: the BRRD on Recovery and Resolution for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies and the DGSD on Deposit Guarantee Schemes. The tasks arising from these directives will be carried out in the Polish system through the Bank Guarantee Fund. It is the BFG that will take action to promote the stability of the national financial system, in particular by ensuring the functioning of the mandatory deposit guarantee scheme and the conduct of compulsory restructuring proceedings. The project was the subject of an analysis of the sub-committee on financial institutions, as well as the Committee on Public Finance. The project itself is a very comprehensive document, extended both in its original form and in its submission to the committee. Many of the amendments resulting from the evaluation of the Legislative Office as well as comments submitted by financial institutions: the National Bank of Poland, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Association of Polish Banks were considered during the project. A very large group of amendments was initiated by the SKOK National Cashier. They were included in the draft already at the stage of the subcommittee's work with the approval of some of the members of the subcommittee and the approval of the government, and some of these amendments, as a variant of the draft, were included in the support of the parliamentarians of Law and Justice at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, today's project is a much worse version than the government's submission. The fact of diversity, for example, raises huge concerns. the amount of contributions paid by banks and SKOKs in the draft version submitted by the committee. In the course of the work of the subcommittee, far-reaching preferences were applied to the cash registers, i.e. the SKOKs. And so: the target level of the deposit guarantee scheme in the original government version of the project was 2,8% the amounts guaranteed in cash registers, at the same value in banks and was reduced to up to 1% in cash registers and not much, because up to 2.6% at the banks. Similarly, and even more disparately, there is a situation as regards contributions to compulsory restructuring. For banks, the target for funding compulsory restructuring is 1.2% of the guaranteed amount, at a rate of 1.4%. proposed in the government submission, while the cash register reduced the minimum level of funding for compulsory restructuring from 1% to 0,1% , and the target level of 1.4% up to 0.14%. Such drastic differentiation of contributions between e.g. cooperative banks and cash registers are simply unacceptable. In fact, it is not banks, and the SKOKs require greater security of funds due to the high risk of their existing activities. Only last year, over PLN 4 billion of the guarantee fund was paid out of the funds - collected by the banks - due to the poor management of public funds in the SKOKs. Unfortunately, the comments made by the Financial Supervision Commission should also be raised. Its supervision is severely restricted, especially with regard to the National Money. Similar reservations are expressed by the National Bank of Poland. He claims that there has been interference with the Act on the National Bank of Poland, that the tasks of the Central Bank have been changed and that the proposed amendments have not been the subject of consultation with the European Central Bank. The only argument in the motivation of this state of affairs, the preference for cash registers, allegedly follows that EU directives do not require credit unions to be covered by deposit guarantees and resolution schemes provided for in those Directives. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not support the draft law as it stands. The numerous preferences applied to SKOKs, the enigmatic justification that this is the result of the EU directive - all of this is inconclusive, and in fact aims to continue to shift the cost of guaranteeing deposits and the cost of forced restructuring of banks into the banking sector, including cooperative banks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u29	Thank you very much, Member. Nine Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to join us? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club. [[Time? How many minutes?]] Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we are debating financial security in this Chamber in the context of the SKOKs, we should look back and ask questions addressed to the Minister of Finance. Following the disclosure by the Financial Supervision Commission of irregularities in the SKOK system, did the National Cashier's disclosure of 83 million to the company in Luxembourg explain the circumstances of these frauds as Chairman of the Financial Stability Committee? Can the Minister answer me, preferably in writing, who is personally responsible for these irregularities and who was the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank in 2013? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Contrary to what Mr Wójcikowski said from the Kukiz club15, the SKOK case, Mr Wójcikowski, is not next to this law. Because what is this bill? This law regulates, as in the cheapest way, the fastest, non-burdening taxpayer to ensure security in the financial system, i.e. in the banking system and in the SKOK system. Since we know that the SKOK system is much more at risk of bankruptcy, and we have evidence of it, because this has happened before, the Polish taxpayer has already paid 5 billion, please do not say that the SKOKs are next to this law. They're absolutely in the middle of this bill. Minister! Answer me this question: What were you doing when you agreed to have a compulsory restructuring fund for the SKOKs 10 times smaller than for the banks, since, as Deputy Minister of Finance, you must already have information that the SKOK system is extremely dangerous, threatened with bankruptcy, and that the Bank Guarantee Fund will first add money to this system? Just don't tell me what you already mentioned to the subcommittee president, and what you also said was that the directive doesn't foresee that SKOKs must be subject to resolution. They don't have to be, but we can't - you, by God, must understand - treat the deposit guarantee fund separately and the compulsory restructuring fund separately. First, we apply fast, cheaply forced restructuring so that we don't have to pay out guaranteed deposits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If there is no sensible and responsible forced restructuring for the SKOKs, then this is it. It's just a legal thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u33	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u34	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! It is worth giving at least three information if questions are asked about today's draft legislation. First of all, what does the financial sector look like? We have banks, cooperative credit and savings banks and the entire loan market. As far as security is concerned, by 2008, the banking sector pays taxes, and by 2008 cooperative savings and credit banks do not pay tax. We understand that banks pay for the Banking Guarantee Fund all the time. We introduce a single deposit guarantee system in SKOKs and banks - up to 100,000. Euros. Banks deposit money all the time, SKOKs start. In this respect, in the event of the bankruptcy of the SKOK, deposits shall be paid to those who have their savings, in the case of banks, if the bank falls, all banks in the sector consist of and contribute to the fund. Today we are before the ruling and these questions are important to the Minister. Should all operators in this sector, regardless of their market share, be treated in the same way when they have identical privileges under this law? That's one thing. Secondly, will there be an agreement with the European Central Bank on a new solution, which appears in this law, which is related inter alia. with the granting of assistance by the National Bank of Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] for cooperative banks through short-term loans without collateral? And the last thing we would all like to clarify is the margins and commissions on the market of financial institutions, both cooperative banks and banks, which Mr Wójcikowski has raised, but this, I think, is a separate topic. So all of us are equally...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u35	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u36	...to the client and all equally responsible. Is the minister okay with this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u37	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you what the Ministry really thinks is the desire to favour the SKOKs with regard to, among other things. cooperative banks, since cooperative banks and SKOKs often operate at a very comparable level, on a comparable scale, dedicated in fact to the same individuals. Are you sure, especially in the Ministry - the law, as the Member has said, is large, introduces many hard regulations - that the SKOKs are irrelevant from the point of view of the whole system, as I understand, because they are a small part of it? Only the problem, looking at the Payout System of the Banking Guarantee Fund, concerns primarily this segment. [[I'll see you later.]] 5 billion, more than 5 billion deposits covered by the payment account for the vast majority of what the Bank Guarantee Fund paid out. It is above all in this segment that we have a problem to solve, the more that all the data we have shows that the problem will still be compounded. If we are talking about the fact that an administrative procedure is being carried out in the case of 17 consecutive cashiers to introduce a commission board, it is clear that the amount of 5 billion has not solved this problem. Which direction does the Ministry want to go? Is it really the protection of the interests of Poles who have funds collected in Polish financial institutions, or in order to protect the environment of the law and justice sector of financial institutions in the form of SKOKs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u39	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Łukasz Schreiber, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to this debate today, it seems that, first of all, we are talking about the draft Act on the SKOKs, not about the Bank Guarantee Fund, and secondly, we need to ask a few questions. Amendments were tabled by the Civic Platform club. Besides, the Platform and the Modern are basically talking. It's about the SKOKs, but the committee's meeting lasted 10 hours, if I'm not mistaken. Then you didn't make any amendments. I have a question for the rapporteur here, whether it was not so. There was also a subcommittee meeting, even longer because it was several times. There are also no amendments to this issue. No amendments related to the JCCs have been tabled by Members of Law and Justice. If my memory is correct, the only amendment that was tabled by the Law and Justice was the amendment by Janusz Szewczak, but it concerned the Polish Bank Association and thus a completely different subject. [[But there were adjustments.]] And now I'm really sorry to ask you this, what's the deal with the skoks? Isn't it that you are bothered by Polish capital in these SKOKs or something else? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It is not Polish, it is rather in Luxembourg more often, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Then the question, now a brief explanation. According to what I'm observing, this bill, the discussion about SKOKs is really a discussion about whether banking oligopoly is to be maintained further, or whether alternative institutions are to be created to break this oligopoly. From the point of view of the bank client, the citizen is better off if the oligopoly is broken. From the security point of view of the oligopole system is better, it has to be admitted, only much more expensive. And now... [[SKOK-I are the worst for depositors, Mr. President.]] I'm sorry. Unfortunately, it is always that greater security costs more, but whether we can afford to pay for little more security with huge commissions and huge margins. In the long term, banking oligopolies do not serve economic development and do not serve cheap credit. And that's the discussion. I understand that some are behind the SKOKs, because they want to break up the banking oligopolies, and those who favour the banking industry want to put in such solutions to keep this oligopoly. [[That is not true what you are saying, sir.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: What nonsense.]] Now, about my question. I expect the government in the near future to present some kind of housing support programme. [[JCCs, support the JCCs.]] Therefore, it is highly likely that financial institutions - construction banks, housing funds, such institutions - will appear and will collect deposits from citizens. These deposits should also be protected to some extent. There are no such entities so far, but if they do, they may prove to be quite important, as for example. in the German market. My question is: What solutions do we anticipate for them? Or will we treat them - in quotes - evenly and put all the elements related to the deposit of money into the Banking Guarantee Fund etc., or will we treat them in a special way so that housing can develop in Poland and the associated savings of citizens? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Blaze Parda from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will also refer to this article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the The target for financing the restructuring of banks is 1.2%. The target level of measures should be collected by the end of 2030. As far as SKOK-i is concerned, this level is 0.14%. 9 times less, and the time to reach the target level is 4 years longer. So the question is why the SKOKs are privileged above all this 9 times less required resources, and why we extend their time. Are they not able to reach this appropriate level at this time? That's one thing. [[They can't do anything.]] There's another question. Here, too, the Member said that the SKOKs should have the same rights. I think so, I agree. Right, they should have the same rights... [[And responsibilities.]] ...and the same responsibilities, of course. You didn't say that. I don't know why. I have another concern, because it may be the perfect way to fall the SKOKs, and it is because the SKOKs, knowing that they are protected, will take much more risky actions, knowing just that they have this shield, and at a very small cost; there may be some dissonance and hence my concern. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! SKOK-and most often attract customers to deposit higher interest... [[High margins.]] ...from the tenants. Where they deposit up to 100,000. zł, customers are guaranteed to obtain a refund of this amount plus interest. I think it would be good for the whole market for banking institutions not to take into account interest on institutions that offer more, but to mediate it to offset competition on the market. It cannot be that people will be aware of higher wages and risks at the same time, entering into such dangerous instruments that other citizens will pay for. That's one thing. Secondly, are you considering the possibility that contributions to the BFG constitute a cost for financial institutions to obtain income? After all, you are aware that excluding these charges from the costs will make this contribution, which will be paid by bank and SKOK customers, and already today the media report that it will actually lead to restructuring of employment in banks - someone has to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u47	Thank you very much, Member. I'm closing the list of speakers. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mostly a series of questions concerned charges, I think - unfair, more reduced treatment of the SKOK sector than banks. I'll get right on it. As for the question of Mr Cimoszewicz, which is missing and asked for an answer in writing, we will prepare this answer for him. As far as these responses to the State are concerned, the SKOK sector due to its low level, as was mentioned, is 0.7% balance sheet for the whole financial market sector, financial institutions... Regulation should be adapted to the opportunities and conditions of this sector. The same applies to cooperative banks, but it is regrettable that cooperative banks are covered by these directives and there is no room for manoeuvre here. It may be considered whether, in 2013, 2014 when they were negotiated, ongoing work on both directives at European Union level could not be negotiated. It seems to me that it was worth raising the volume and saying that the directive is not fully adapted to small institutions, such as those. Like cooperative banks and SKOKs. That's one thing. With regard to the levels of funding for DGS and the resolution fund, the target level for banks is 2.6. We have reduced this from 2.8 to 2.6 and extended the adjustment process, the adjustment period from 2024 to 2030, relieving banks, while it is said that the SKOKs are being reduced as they have a 1% target. Ladies and gentlemen, the current level of DGS in banks is 1.6. We increase it by 1%, we increase the SKOKs by 1%, so the load level is really the same. When it comes to resolution, the restructuring fund... [[2% isn't as much as 1%.]] As far as the restructuring fund is concerned, the SKOKs do not need to be covered by this law at all. We, for the purity and security of the system, cover this... [[2.6 isn't at 1.]] ...in turn, please note that we would be willing to reduce the target level for cooperative banks because these are smaller institutions than commercial banks, but we cannot do this because this was negotiated at the level of... [[You can. When it comes to what's in the BFG, you can.]] ... The European Union, so that's what it looks like. [[That's the bill you've drawn up.]] As far as the building development program is concerned, if there are any institutions, then of course... The lack of knowledge of the Member who asked the question, I apologize. ...if necessary and these institutions will be systemicly important, of course the bill will be amended, but it is now difficult to speak about institutions that are not yet available. I think that's it. As for Mrs Skowronska's question as to whether we will be talking, we negotiated with the European Central Bank on the fact that the SKOKs will be able to go to the national bank after a financial loan, this law does not contain such an option. This amendment was rejected and there is no such amendment in the Act, so I do not understand the question. Mrs Stępień referred to whether it was possible to change such a way as to pay deposits without interest. Unfortunately, it regulates the Directive, here too, you can have, so to speak, a charge against those who negotiated it in 2013, 2014. Until then, until then, the bankruptcy of the institution must be paid interest. The directive leaves us no room for manoeuvre on this issue. It's all on my side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's too bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u49	Thank you very much. In Ms Krystyna Skowronska's correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u50	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Minister, you didn't understand my question, then my statement. [[And he doesn't know the directive.]] On the Directive on the possibility of applying other fees to the Bank Guarantee Fund to cooperative banks, but that is the possibility for those banks that are in IPS. Thus, in this case, it would be worth discussing, to review, since the State has shown this possibility in relation to cooperative savings and credit banks. And the other thing. The Minister didn't understand my question either, because he paid 2.6% of the assets by the banks, a 1% increase. to today's situation, and by SKOK-i increase by 1%, it is however 2.6% And 1%. This, however, is a significant difference in the amount of the deposit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u51	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u52	I think there's a very small area for me to discuss. I think that during the debate itself, very interesting, in the finance committee, these issues, which are now echoing back, were discussed in quite detail. I don't want to get involved in any of these political disputes about the whole sector at all. It's not a simple matter. It seems to me that we will have the opportunity to support Polish capital, companies and smaller institutions many times. It's obvious that loading the same stakes of a colossus is something other than a load... This can be seen very well on the example of companies operating in the Polish business. Let's not hide, we want to help these little, weak people as a parliament so that they can grow up to show up. This case... [[You didn't lower the contributions to the cooperative banks, did you?]] Yeah, yeah. [[And you could have lowered it.]] And as far as cooperative banks are concerned, I think the Minister listened very carefully, because here there was a difference in whether the directive really is stone or not... [[It's not.]] ...or a segment... Because I understand, Madam President, that's what she said, that nobody closes to this discussion. I'm the last one to... I used to be a co-operative bank illustrator, so I think it's fantastic that we have very modest, but we have and we should protect and blow it, and we should sniff... [[Okay.]] I'm here for you, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, who says, yes, we need the Western capital of those banks that are so nice to us... It's hard here, Mr. Rafał Wójcikowski said how we're being erased. However, margins are high and cost-effective in the Polish sector after all these burdens and are much higher than in the whole of Europe. So let's not pretend it's so horrible and so terrible. Here, from this bleacher, we need to be clear about this. These are very expensive, however... We have a high cost for the client. [[Earnings of money.]] Yes. And we, especially in the finance committee, must remember this and speak about it clearly even in the course of the discussion. Thank you for the discussion. It's a pity that sometimes we miss the facts, because when we talk about these SKOKs, these SKOKs, these SKOKs, I'm gonna say one thing. It's a professional mirror deformity. We say surveillance explains everything. The old saying says, darkest under the lantern. When, at what time, did the loans lost in Volomin grow rapidly? When that bank was already under surveillance. [[Yes, sir.]] I know there were other elements - the legal system, the inability, all of this is extensive. But let's not talk so beautifully here that the BFG is a prescription for everything, the minister is a prescription. The world is more complex. And the smart guys weren't missing, and they're not gonna be missing. [[Applause]] [[Honesty is a recipe for everything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes (prints No 292 and 483). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law on amending the Law on Research Institutes. This report is contained in print No 483, and the draft law to which it relates is published in print No 292. High Izbo! These regulations concern state research institutes. There are about 115 research institutes in Poland. On the other hand, the state is 17. They play a special role. These are institutes that must carry out activities commissioned by the Minister. Therefore, the relationship and cooperation between these institutes and the supervising minister must, by nature, be very coherent. The current provisions of the Act prevent effective supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over them. This is particularly dangerous for institutes performing tasks which are particularly important for the planning and implementation of state policy. This draft law concerns the amendment of selected provisions of the Law on Research Institutes in order to strengthen the supervision of the Minister of Supervision, in particular as regards: the appointment of a Director from among candidates selected through a competition, matters relating to the day-to-day management of the Research Institute in the event of a failure to appoint a Director as a result of a competition, the possibility of repealing resolutions of the Scientific Council which are not in conformity with the laws and statutes and the extension of the grounds for appeal of the Director of the Research Institute. The draft law assumes that the Supervisory Minister appoints one person from among the candidates submitted by the competition committee to the Director of the Research Institute which meets the formal requirements. At the same time, it was foreseen that the Supervisory Minister may not appoint a Director where none of the candidates submitted by the competition committee guarantees the proper performance of the Institute's tasks. Such a solution gives the Minister greater opportunities to make the right choice of person for the most important position in the institution. In addition, the draft provides that, in the absence of appointment to the Director, any of the candidates submitted by the Competition Committee may be appointed by the Supervisory Minister to perform the duties of the Director not only of the former Deputy Director. It is appropriate to confer on the Minister supervising the power to appoint and dismiss the Deputy Director of the State Research Institute, since in the event of the cancellation of the Director of the Institute it is often so that the reasons for his dismissal by the Minister of Supervision also refer to his Deputy Director. Then the appointment of a Deputy Director to perform his duties could also affect the principles of the rule of law, integrity and economy that must undoubtedly be respected in all institutes, including in the activities of the State Institute. It should be borne in mind that at present the competent minister cannot revoke the Deputy Director of the Institute, only the Director of the Institute, the Director or the Head of the Institute. In practice, please, it may happen that in the event that the supervising minister cancels the Director of the Institute or does not appoint a candidate designated by the competition committee, the former Deputy Director will refuse to accept or perform the duties of Director. In such a case, the activities of the research institute may be de facto paralyzed. This is to prevent this kind of undesirable paralysis of the Institute's activities. It should be stressed that the deputy will have to meet the same strict requirements as the Institute's Director. In this way, the draft law aims to improve the quality of the management of the research institute during the transitional period of the absence of its director. The project also provides an additional possibility to dismiss the Director because the Institute has failed to perform the tasks specified in the Statute. This proposal is intended to improve the Minister's supervision of the State Research Institute. It is also foreseen that in the event of reorganisation of the Institute consisting of a change in the subject matter or scope of its operation, the Supervisory Minister may revoke the former Director and appoint a person to carry out his duties. It is also proposed that two representatives of the Minister of Supervision should be included in the selection committee for the appointment of candidates for director, not one so far. Consequently, the number of representatives of the Scientific Council is decreasing from two to one. In order to strengthen the Minister's supervision, the composition of the Scientific Council should be amended in such a way that the Institute's scientific and research and technical staff represent 50% of the board's composition and those who are not members of the Institute's staff - including 50%, while the Chairman of the Scientific Council of the State Research Institute could be chosen only from among the members of the Scientific Council appointed by the Supervisory Minister. There are also new regulations concerning the examination of the legality and statute of the Institute of resolutions of the Scientific Council. The proposed regulation is intended to ensure that the Supervisory Minister is able to effectively supervise the activities of the Institute. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish scientists and students are huge potential. It will not be fully exploited if the State - and in this case the Ministry - does not have sufficient supervision over it. The other changes proposed in the draft are of a clear and precise nature to the existing provisions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of an attached draft resolution... of a bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u55	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No 292. The aim of the amendment is to strengthen the supervision of the research institute by the competent minister. It should be noted that the proposed regulations concern state research institutes. The provisions currently in force prevent effective supervision of research institutes where the Director does not perform his duties properly. This constitutes a danger for institutes performing tasks which are particularly important for the planning and implementation of state policies, such as state research institutes. The proposed law provides greater opportunities for the proper choice of the most important people at the Institute, allowing the Minister of Supervision not only to appoint and dismiss the Director of the Institute, but also its deputies. It should be noted that, under the current rules, the competent minister cannot revoke the Deputy Director of the Institute, only the Director of the Institute, the Director or the Head of the Institute may do so. The proposed solution therefore guarantees the highest quality of management. The project also provides for the addition of a catalogue of grounds for appealing the Director of the grounds for incorrect performance by the Institute of its tasks recorded in the statutes. This amendment is intended to improve the Minister's supervision of the operation of state research institutes. The solutions contained in the draft law are intended to prevent unwanted paralysis of the activities of state research institutes. The project also adds new regulations concerning the examination of legality and the statute of the Institute of resolutions of the Scientific Council. These regulations are intended to ensure that the Minister oversees the activities of the institutes. The draft also contains changes that are of a clear and precise nature to the existing provisions. Mrs. Marshal! At the same time, I would like to point out that the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice wishes to bring to the bill an amendment which I am submitting to your marshal. Please accept this amendment. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice also asks for the entire bill to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u57	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u58	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 483. The project, which was presented by the applicants, aims to strengthen the supervision of the Minister of Supervision and in practice completely subordinates the research institutes of the Minister. Originally, the project concerned all research institutes, and now the scope of the changes has been narrowed down to state research institutes. Of course, it is better that this is the case, but these bad solutions, which were intended to refer to all institutes, now refer to state research institutes. What are the current solutions for the bodies of institutes? The director is appointed by the minister, but the candidate for the director is presented by the competition committee. There is therefore a combination of the influence of the Institute and the decisive voice of the Minister. Deputy Director now appoints and dismisses the Director, and it is natural for the Director to choose the co-workers he will work with. Today, the Scientific Council is composed of employees of the Institute representing at least 50% the composition and the persons outside the institute represent 30% of the composition. The Scientific Council shall elect from among its members by secret ballot the Chairperson and his alternates. The project looks like this. According to the provisions of the project, the Minister appoints the Director, with a large, almost full freedom of choice - if all the provisions relating to it are put together - and the role of the competition committee is minimal, actually symbolic. The Minister shall also conclude a contract with the Director and may also revoke it. The Minister shall also appoint and conclude contracts with the Deputy Director. Up to 50% of the scientific council of the state research institute is to be constituted by persons who are not employees of the institute. According to the rules of the project, the Scientific Council elects its chairman and its alternates from among its members, so it looks beautiful, but in the case of the State Research Institute, only a member of the Council appointed by the Minister can be president. As you can see, the provisions of the project, by changing the rules, are in fact fully subject to the activities of the supervisory minister's institute. This state of affairs deserves a negative assessment for at least three reasons. Firstly, it seems that it is not possible to effectively manage research institutes at the Ministry level, secondly, scientific research, however, requires a certain degree of freedom of action for its effectiveness, the possibility of making decisions, and this is missing, and thirdly, under such conditions, the state research institute may find it difficult to organise its tasks. Against this background you can ask the question - because I presented the current regulation and proposed this regulation - whether there were precedents with us regarding similar solutions. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth noting that legal solutions of a similar nature - not details, but similar nature - were included in the Act of 8 January 1951 on the creation of research institutes for the purposes of the national economy and, later, in the Law on research institutes of 17 February 1961. I think that the similarity of the proposed solutions to those laws today does not bring great glory to the authors of these solutions. Let us not appeal to such patterns. The Civic Platform Club has a negative assessment [[♪ The bell ♪]] the proposed amendments and calls for these changes to be abandoned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u60	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendments to the provisions of the Law on Research Institutes aim primarily at increasing the supervisory capacity of the Minister supervising a specific state research institute. According to the project, ministers will be given a wide range of opportunities to fill management positions in state research institutes. This concerns the possibility of free choice of director, i.e. selection from among several submitted candidates, or the right of appeal on the basis of non-precise, general wording, e.g. Not providing a guarantee for the proper performance of tasks, although as we know, the candidate has the required qualifications and meets the substantive criteria. It is worth mentioning that the original project concerned all institutes, after the work of the committee it now concerns only institutes with the status of a state research institute. In addition, the Scientific Council of State Research Institutes will consist of 50% employee representatives and 50% non-employees. At present, non-Institute members account for 30% of the board members. The position of the Scientific Council of State Institutes will also be weakened because it is deprived of its ability to request the appointment of a Director. She'll only be able to apply for an appeal. Unfortunately, a staff member of an institute other than a deputy appointed to act as a director will still not have to have knowledge of foreign languages. The rapporteur said that the current rules prevent the Minister from having proper control. However, according to the NIK audit carried out in recent years, the supervisory powers so far have not been properly used. The Supreme Audit Chamber states that: The supervision of ministers over research institutes focused primarily on financial and organisational issues, to a lesser extent taking into account the effects of their scientific and implementation activities. During the audit of research institutes, ministers did not use the assessments formulated by the Committee for the Evaluation of Scientific Units. Ministers failed to carry out the obligation to control institutes, which prevented a comprehensive assessment of their activities. The under-exploiting of the research potential of institutes could have had an impact on: indeterminate directions for the development of their activities, involvement in service activities, insufficient development of young researchers resulting in a generation gap and incorrect periodic evaluations of employees. The question therefore arises as to whether an additional extension of the oversight of ministers will change anything in this regard and whether it will really improve the functioning of state research institutes. Research institutes employ as many as 42,000 full-time employees in Poland. people and their activities still do not translate into obtaining important foreign patents in numbers even similar to those in Western countries. Today's practical application to the economy is only 20% That's still a small amount of patent work. The additional problems of the current system are the lack of structural reforms, the lack of proper involvement and acquisition of young researchers, the lack of cooperation with the economy and the lack of economic impact. The exchange of staff is the only change that the proposed law introduces, and it is unlikely that it will contribute to a real improvement in the situation in this area and, above all, its impact on the real improvement in the quality of work of institutes is questionable. The Kukiz Club15 calls for a deep restructuring of research institutes, even reducing them or consolidating them, not making them even more dependent on the state authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u61	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill amending the Law on Research Institutes, the main objective is to strengthen the supervision exercised by the competent ministers of research institutes. The authors of the project assumed that the competence of the competent minister was insufficient and needed to be extended. It is right to discuss changes to the functioning of research institutes, but the proposed changes are unfavourable. The project indicates a lack of trust in the scientific community of these institutes. The project gives great authority to the Minister and allows for the rapid exchange of directors of selected institutes. The proposed amendments will enable each institution to quickly exchange the Director and Vice-Directors for persons designated by the Minister, strengthen his representatives in the competition committee and create the possibility to appoint an unelected person as interim director even if he does not have the qualifications required in the competition. The draft law is part of the overall human policy pursued by the Law and Justice. It is based on the belief that greater public and official control will result in a better functioning of the individual. The possible implementation of the proposed amendments will lead to a reduction in the creative and creative activities of institutes which will follow the instructions of non-specialised officials. It should be noted that, on the basis of the provisions of the Law cited above, the supervisory minister is now entitled to audit in research institutes and that, in the event of failure to comply with the audit recommendations, he has the right to dismiss the director of the Institute. However, it has no competence to repeal the resolutions of the Scientific Council of the Institute. The introduction of this possibility is contrary to the principle of freedom of research. The Modern Club wants to place an amendment on the hands of the Marshal to this bill. We believe that a number of things need to be changed, although we are in general opposed to this law as a whole. The amendments are only in case, however, this law is to apply. First of all, we want to repeal the provision allowing the Director to be dismissed in the event of a change in the scope of the Institute's activities. We want to delete the paragraph that the Minister does not appoint a Director if the competition has been conducted in violation of the law or the candidate does not meet the formal requirements. Points referring to non-compliance with the competition criteria by the candidates presented by the competition committee will be removed. The adoption of the changes proposed by the State would lead to the Minister freely deciding who will be the director, without taking into account any recommendations from the competition committee. In addition, we think that e.g. the proposed amendment to Article. 27 that the Supervisory Minister appoints and dismisses the Deputy Director is too far-reaching because this power actually takes away the director's freedom to choose the closest associates. There have been no such provisions in other such laws so far. Then there is no reason for the Chairman of the Scientific Council to be elected only from among the candidates appointed by the Minister of Supervision. There's no reason to defend this record. This is another restriction on scientific freedom and powers arising from the functioning of the institute as a research body. We are equally opposed to the Minister being able to repeal resolutions by means of an administrative decision. In conclusion, the modern club opposes official interference proposed by the PiS in the field of scientific activity. We will always defend the freedom to pursue our profession, because that is the basis for fundamental trust in our fellow countrymen. It is from their integrity, entrepreneurship, creativity, diligence and, at the same time, a certain scientific freedom that we expect results in the form of good functioning of institutes, not from the strong control powers of the Ministry. The Ministry should make greater use of these powers, which it already has, instead of introducing rules which are difficult to resist - the only objective is to manually control the capacity of staff of research institutes. Therefore, first of all, I am making amendments, second, essentially Modern is against the Law on Research Institutes at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. And you will be the last to speak by Mr Krystian Jarubas, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u64	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on research institutes, prints No 292 and 483. Ladies and gentlemen! The ruling majority today shows their true face. After the earthquake in the offices where the PiS bombed civilian service, now it's time for state research institutes? I ask because the change proposed by the PiS regarding research institutes raises a lot of doubts Not politicians, not academics I've had the chance to talk to lately. And it's not even about the rolling centralization that we see as a proponent, it's definitely the PiS. This is primarily about the question, in colloquially speaking, of the minister to whom the research institute is subject. After all, according to the project of PiS the director of the research institute would be chosen by the minister supervising this institute from among the candidates submitted by the competition committee. This means, in fact, that the Minister would not have to choose the person who was best placed to be the director of the Institute in the competition for this position. During the committee's work, there was still a tone of records. Nevertheless, scientists believe that there are still a number of gaps in the project that could lead to abuse in choosing, for example. Director of the research centre and even his deputies. Someone might say it's just blowing away, that it's just irresistible as fear and dissipation. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at this as so-called. A good change is progressing in the matter of filling posts, and we see that these concerns take on a completely different meaning. I look around the room and I don't see Mr Jaworski. Ah, I forgot, didn't I, he gave up his ticket and jumped to the Board of PZU? Say hi to your friend. [[Voice from the room: Poor actor.]] The PSL Club will be opposed to the changes made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? You're welcome. I'm closing the list of people. If anyone wants to sign up, do it again, and I'll close the list in a minute. And right now, Mr. Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first question. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Research institutes are important from the point of view of science in addition to universities and institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Their contribution to the achievement of Polish science is estimated at about 1/3. National research institutes, i.e. so-called, play a particular role among research institutes. PIBs. In addition to the tasks of all institutes relating primarily to research and development, the PIBs carry out tasks which are particularly important for the planning and implementation of state policy, hence the changes that this law requires are so important. These institutions from the state's point of view must simply be well managed, because it is in the interests of the state. One of the proposed changes concerns the composition of the Scientific Council. Finally, the change in the proportion of representatives of PIB and outsiders appointed by the Minister of Supervision is not significant, compared to the current situation it will be 50% up to 50%. My question is related to the doubts they expressed in their discussions with me as a representative of the Institutes' representatives: Will it be possible to ensure a high attendance and participation of these external representatives in the work of the Council? This is very important because the board makes a number of decisions, often personal, related to doctoral cables, habilitation cables, and the presence on this board is very important. If there was a problem with absenteeism, does the Ministry have any ideas on how to mobilise the elected members of the Council to be active, non-abandoning representatives? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u68	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The PiS country's tentacles are going very far. [[Ooh...]] It began by making PiS MEPs judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, then presidents of state companies. Well, of course there was also an episode, cousins of Jarosław Kaczyński were also filled in high positions of state. And this good change must go back to research institutes. Even the Polish Academy of Sciences calls for moderation. Don't you have the right people and that's why you have to change your laws? The provisions concerning the absence of appointment of the Director allow a great deal of freedom for the Minister. The messages are formulated in a very general way and are of a judgmental nature. It is the minister who decides whether or not someone raises reasonable doubt as to impartiality. Looking at the PiS activities so far, it is hard to resist the impression that if the proposed director has a different opinion than the President, he will simply be dismissed. Nor is there any provision for an appeal with regard to the decisions of the Minister or the possibility of controlling his decisions. So that the thesis from the very beginning: the tentacles of the PiS state reach really very, very far. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u69	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We are discussing a bill whose main idea is to strengthen the supervision of the competent minister over the functioning of state research institutes. The opposition raises the volume, but this, my dear country, in the state of government, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, raised a lot of doubts about this supervision. This is confirmed by the 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber's report on the effectiveness of Institutes' work, which states that they did not fully exploit their research potential. Yes, Members of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, a good change must reach all areas of the state's functioning, because in this state you left our country after your governments. I have a question for the Minister. Will the procedure proposed in the amendment of the law for the appointment of a director of a state research institute contribute to the quality of this supervision carried out by the Ministry Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u71	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u72	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that research institutes play a very important role in the scientific community. I am also aware that the ministry that puts money on these institutes would like to influence what is happening in these institutions. I have a question for the Minister. Will the proposed amendments to the Law on Research Institutes improve the quality of work of state institutes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u73	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the amendment of the law, as justified, is intended to strengthen the supervision of ministers over research institutes, I do not understand why it is a parliamentary project, not a government project. Such a legislative path becomes the standard of government of the PiS, because it is simply possible to avoid any consultation, in this case It's a consultation of the scientific community. Are you afraid of that? We know you're doing this against the scientific community. Why ask them for opinions and make a good law when it comes to something completely different? This is indeed a billing project, as the rapporteur pointed out. You want to quickly dump the directors and bring your people out of the party key, sort things out your way. It's a few dozen jobs. A change in the proportion of scientific councils and competition committees leads to the Minister of Personnel being able to do what he likes in research institutes. I have a question. Why is it not a government project, and why does the government want to limit the freedom of research? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u75	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here we have heard many negative words from our opposition club colleagues regarding the bill presented by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. Ladies and gentlemen, we know very well what the state of Polish science is. This science is also perfected, and should be, in research institutes. Yes, we received a lot of money from the European Union, we built walls, we bought equipment, but young scientists, and Poland has excellent young scientists, they cannot break through these elites of some scientists, [[Applause]] which sit in research institutes. It's time to change that... [[On your own, right?]] ...and it is very good that the Minister of Science and Higher Education will supervise who is to be the director of this institute. As we have said so far, if it turns out that someone elected by this committee, then by the Minister does not meet the conditions and expectations, there will be an immediate change. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish science must develop. I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry. How will it ensure the proper performance of the tasks of the State Institute to designate the Director by the competent minister from among the candidates submitted by the Competition Commission? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u77	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Marzena Machalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In fact, one thing came from discussions and from club speeches - mostly, even from those criticizing the submitted project - that much should be changed, that state research institutes or research institutes do not function as they should. Changing and talking today about greater state supervision of research institutes is not a means of self-supervising - they are designed to give a new impetus to the state's influence on what is happening in research institutes, and to ensure that state policy is implemented in research institutes: a policy of better functioning of science, greater innovation and the implementation of this innovation, and in these areas we are in Europe at the gray end. So applauding what's going on right now and pretending everything's okay is just not right, Professor. Today we have to change that. The parliamentary project is an infinite, incomplete project. We are looking forward to a ministerial presentation which will probably resolve the research institutes more extensively so that they actually meet the needs of the state and have a good impact on the development of science and innovation. One of the important, important issues is, of course, personal matters. It is important who directs and what atmosphere it builds when it comes to the operation of research institutes. Research institutes cannot be a country in the country and cannot be headed by an unrevocable head. I therefore ask: What effect will the Minister responsible for the Director of the State Research Institute have under the new law, and in what case will the Director be able to cancel? And I join the question both to the applicant and to the minister: What impact will this new law have on these changes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to improve the functioning of state research institutes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u79	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all expect a high level of Polish science. Research institutes are an important part of it and, like my previous speakers, I agree that there is really much to do here. We all know that research institutes are different: some are good, but unfortunately there are much weaker. Often they basically implement visions of their boss who have nothing to do with state policy. We have the right to expect a high level of research institutes and I hope that these changes will lead to this. A question for the Minister. The way the institute's gonna be run... Minister, how will the change in the composition of the competition committee translate into the selection of a director of an institute that will ensure the rule of law, integrity and economy of state research institutes? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u81	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act is another good change, i.e. the politicization of Polish science this time. Law and Justice include offices, government agencies, foreign services, studs - and we know what came out of it - and now research institutes. In line with the proposed amendment, ministers will have the greatest impact on who will manage these institutes. The Minister who oversees a specific institute will be able to call off his director and appoint his man as interim head of the unit for a six-month period. The removal of existing directors through the new rules is to be much easier. It will be possible, for example. in the event of incorrect performance of statutory tasks as defined by the Scientific Council. Its composition will also change dramatically - in such a way that it is the minister who will have a decisive influence on it. The new directors will be selected, by means of a competition, by a committee dependent on the politicians of the PiS. As you can see, in the whole system, we're back to the 80s of the last century. I have a question: Why is the Minister of Science deaf to a critical voice about this particular good change coming from the Council of the Central Research Institutes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u83	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u84	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard a statement about the wrong state of Polish science... [[Not the best.]] Fine. ...not the best state of Polish science and the way out of this situation: it is the submission of the Ministry of Research Institutes. Well, I would like to say that the issue of the state of Polish science is a very broad subject. Very many factors affect this condition, but I will allow myself to indicate only one. I'm pleading for an article by Professor Woznicki, head of the main council, about a year and a half ago. Well, he gives data according to which Polish science in Europe is in place 6, so it may not satisfy us, but in terms of funding - at 20. Well, maybe it's not that bad. Let's increase the funding of this science. [[Eight years, eight years.]] [[The voice from the hall: You could have done it, you had eight years to do it.]] Now it's next. At a recent meeting with Prime Minister Gowin, we also talked about research institutes and in the course of the discussion we received information that work has been undertaken on new regulations which take into account different categories of institutes, different situation of institutes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Prime Minister expressed his willingness to consult, so it is completely different from this project related to the environment. My question is how advanced these works are. This was also mentioned by your Deputy Minister of Development at the meeting of this extraordinary committee. How advanced are these works? When can we expect the first results of this work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u85	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I come from a beautiful city where five institutes operate, three of which are based there, two of which are state institutes. I must say that Polish science and the Polish economy, in general Poland, are perfectly entitled to the development of Polish science and the Polish economy. Given the change mentioned here, which follows the amendment of the Civil Service Act, the prosecutor's office, on changes in personal storage in the companies of the State Treasury, I understand that it all has its reasons, because - as the classic of political thought and practice of the turn of the 19th and 20th century - staff decide everything. On the other hand, I have listened to the questions of the Members of the Law and Justice Club who ask the Minister how this change will contribute to the effective functioning of these institutes, and I will give the Minister a heads-up. I'm gonna say these changes are gonna be good for you. The Minister will say this: they will certainly contribute to this. This is like those areas that I have discussed before in terms of economy or civil service. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister, finally the Minister of Science and Higher Education: Why is the position of the authorities which are... Because I understand the political debate. Here we are doomed and chosen to pursue a political dispute with such an accident for the benefit of citizens, but you ignore the scientific community, the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Main Council of Science and Higher Education, which very briefly states that the project cannot be positively assessed due to a lack of consistent vision of system solutions, and the project is limited mainly to changing the way the basic bodies of institutes are selected, in particular the Scientific Council and management. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the basic question is, is this some way, such a stigmatization of your actions in all areas? You don't listen to the economic environment, you don't listen to the scientific community. Why, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland there are more than a hundred public research institutes, of which the law will cover 17. These 17 units will have the statute of a state research institute with a targeted grant. Of course, he's gonna go to the directors, split up the grants, buy more real estate, cancel the rents, maybe buy some new car. Or two, fuel is being refueled, and in general, all of these activities will cause more money to be thrown out, so to speak, into space. My question relates to the key problem here: What about the announcements of commercialising institutes, more simply speaking, transforming them into companies? Will these announcements be realized at all? And is it just a matter of filling posts on the basis of: just until the next election? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law offers great decision-making opportunities for the Minister to appoint directors of research institutes. Yes, this gives further surveillance opportunities, but it also raises concerns that these opportunities will be abused. Are there plans to verify and control the Minister's decision? If so, by whom? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u91	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to say that the Law and Justice are characterized by one of the most important features that is needed in politics: courage - courage to take responsibility. In my opinion, I feel like I'm tired of blurring my responsibilities. This responsibility has been blurred in particular over the last eight years. It was said: and, it was the competition that elected the president, the director, which is why I, the Minister, the Deputy Minister, cannot take responsibility for this. It's not me, it's someone else. That is why I believe that the current regulations change this sick state of affairs. The rules currently prevent effective supervision of research institutes where the Director does not perform his duties properly. This condition is dangerous and we need to change it. Thank you very much for these changes. I therefore have a question: Will the appointment of a Deputy Director by the Minister supervising the State Research Institute have an impact on improving the quality of the Institute's work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u93	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr.Aleksander Bobka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of different wordings came here, and if you listen to it so on the side, you might get the impression that here in this discussion and this law - adopting or not this law - the High Chamber decides the state of Polish science or the direction of development of Polish science. This is a bit of a misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, because, first of all, as you know, it is a parliamentary project. You are asking, reasonablely otherwise, why Members of Parliament rather than Government. Well, the government, the Ministry is currently working on, I would say, a package of laws and a package of solutions that they have - we hope - in order for some very predictable future of Polish science. There are work on the new Law on Higher Education - that is the main thing, but in the Law on Higher Education there are also elements concerning science and this is related to the Law on the Financing of Science. One of the important elements of this package of issues that order Polish science is also research institutes or the law on research institutes. On this point, I would say, in the area of research institutes, the case is particularly complicated, because research institutes were created at different times, have different tasks, are today institutes with different... I don't want to go into the details here too much, but there are different institutes - there are excellent institutes and there are institutes that actually don't really run or run the science or research anymore. So all of this needs to be addressed in a systematic way, beyond political divisions. As we have been able to discuss the planned changes, on the Law on Higher Education, I would appeal so much to the High House not to politicise the discussion on the law governing Polish science and higher education. It's really unnecessary, and it doesn't serve anyone. I would very much appeal for that. These voices, that here, I don't know, the government has some wicked intentions and wants to introduce Commissioners into scientific institutions, are so far from our intentions, from plans that, in understanding even the speech of a sympathetic Member, I ask you not to even think in this way. [[Who's in charge? Members or government?]] It is possible to ask Mr Nykiel, with whom we have had many discussions just about... with him, in committees, the truth, with colleagues in the Senate, on the Senate Scientific Committee. I mean really intentions and plans of the Ministry of Science are such as to protect the freedom of Polish science to provide better financial opportunities, and such politicising allegations or suspicions against the Ministry, well, I leave without comment. This law, on the other hand, is a parliamentary initiative which, on the one hand, introduces certain cosmetic changes, i.e. ad hoc. It is as if an ad hoc action, which I understand - in the intention of the initiators of this law as to prevent or give certain tools, so that during this transitional period the minister has more opportunity to intervene in situations, whether I know it, I do not want to say: pathological, but in such situations, when a change of director or more impact on the operation of the institute would be advisable precisely because the institute in its assessment of the minister fails to fulfil its statutory tasks. And I'd say that's it, that's it. In this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, forgive me, but I think we are overestimating, I think you are overestimating the impact of legislation on real life or on the functioning of institutions, especially scientific institutions, which are acting in a more autonomous way than others. Of course, research institutes are not universities. While the autonomy of universities is very far gone and our great concern is that this autonomy of universities, universities should be ensured by law and protected, while research institutes should also have a certain degree of autonomy, but different, smaller than universities, because this is a different environment, right, smaller. So here's the speech... And in this discussion, as if many of you do not distinguish that the environment of scientific institutes should be enjoyed... It's something like universities that have their own internal regulations, they choose the authorities in elections, and so on. Institutes are other institutions. They often carry out certain tasks commissioned, so in this sense the one who has commissioned these tasks must also have instruments of clearing and influencing the way in which these tasks are carried out, and it really has nothing to do with any attempt on the freedom of Polish science. It's just some kind of interpretation completely unreal, unintentional interpretation. There's been a lot of specific questions here. How will these changes affect the quality of institutes? Ladies and gentlemen, honestly, these are not simple causal relations. These mechanisms to increase the oversight of ministers allow for more effective intervention in situations where something is wrong when something is wrong at the institute. So in this sense, we have a greater opportunity to stop some wrong processes and put research institutes on a better path, in a new, better direction. I mean, in that sense it can be said that somehow it will affect better quality in science, but of course there is nothing to overestimate. This is a change. It's kind of short-term, cosmetic, actually, and that's it. At least that's how I understand it. On the other hand, on the responsibility of the Minister, it is the Minister who has political responsibility, any other responsibility, makes dozens of decisions a day, makes dozens of personal decisions, and simply bears a normal responsibility like the Minister. And here responsibility for the appointment of the Institute's directors is similar to that of a number of other decisions made by the Minister. Main Board's opinion. The main board's opinion is reasonable. In fact, this project is selective, it's pointy, and that's the state of things, and there's nothing to hide. On the other hand, work is underway on system solutions. And here we're counting, just like it's been for a few months. it is already a place, for good cooperation with the main council and for the fact that the main council will be one of those places where we will seek consensus over divisions, we will look for solutions that will serve Polish science. One element of these changes may also be the commercialisation of certain institutes. Because, as I mentioned, some institutes today are doing only scientific or research tasks, and there is probably some space for possible commercialization of some institutes. But here I don't feel competent, in the ministry someone else, one of my colleagues is doing it. So that a deeper discussion about the situation and overall systemic changes in research institutes is ahead of us. And I'm gonna end it with what I started with again. Please do not politicise this discussion beyond the necessary need, which, of course, always exists in the Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u95	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Lidia Burzyńska, will now speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all Members very warmly for these votes, and for their votes in favour, and for their criticisms, because during this discussion about the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on Research Institutes, we actually had the opportunity to really answer one thing. As for this country, we all agree that state institutes are implementing state policy. Therefore, for this reason, you have said this, you have written the Minister, the Minister is responsible for the actions of state institutes. To a number of questions and observations which you have addressed to the Minister, the Minister has answered. On the other hand, I wanted to address one thing, ladies and gentlemen. Namely, there were allegations here that there was no consultation with scientific communities at all. I would like to stress that consultations with scientific communities took place in the subcommittee which had its meeting on 12 April, and that was the meeting of the subcommittee which was attended by all scientific communities and they were then able to... express their views... [[They were very critical.]] ...your opinion. Madam President, you say that there has been a critical voice in the environment, and that is why the draft legislative amendment is narrowed down to state research institutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But the basic rules haven't been changed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I'm announcing a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 19 hours 14 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education (Prints No. 429 and 503). I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u98	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, print Nos 429 and 503. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 255 of the Law of 27 July 2005. The Law on Higher Education states that by 30 June 2016, the names of universities should be adapted to the requirements laid down in Article. 3 laws. This article sets out the criteria which the university would be entitled to use in the university's name the word. university with adjectives, e.g. The University of Natural Sciences, Medical or Technical University, or such names as Polytechnic, Academia. This is related to the university's and its organisational units' powers to grant a doctor's degree. Thus, if the university has, it has the authority to give a doctor's degree in at least 10 disciplines, including at least two qualifications in each of the three fields of science - the first field is humanistic, legal, economic, theological, the second group is mathematical, physical, earth or technical sciences, the third is biological, medical, chemical, pharmaceutical, agricultural, veterinary sciences - then the word "university" can be used in the name of this university. We take into account the fact that the deadline for fulfilling the obligation arising from the abovementioned regulations and laws is approaching, and that some universities have failed to meet these requirements despite the high quality of education, a wide offer of teaching and unique research projects and a key role in the development of the region and their elite role. Therefore, considering that it is in their own interest and in the general interest of Polish science to deprive them of their opportunity to do this work, the committee requests that the proposed amendments be adopted, i.e. that the deadline within which the university's names may be changed, i.e. extension by 30 June 2020 of the deadline for adapting university names to the requirements set out in Article. 3 laws. I would also like to point out that the proposed bill will not have any financial implications for the budget of the state and budgets of local government units, nor is it the subject of European Union law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u99	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present to the High House the position of our club with regard to the proposed amendment to the Law on Higher Education, in print No. 429 and 503. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 255 of the Law of 27 July 2005. The Law on Higher Education, as amended, stipulates that by 30 June 2016, the names of universities should be adapted to the requirements laid down in Article. 3 laws. The rapporteur has just presented these criteria. In view of the above, I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the proposals presented in the original version of the Act in 2005 were taken together, i.e. they refer to and relate to the need for multidisciplinaryness, but they did not include, inter alia, the proposals for obtaining criteria. the characteristics of some academic centres whose specialty, brand was built on a distinctive element, e.g. with regard to the experience of the Catholic University of Lublin or the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University or the University of Szczecin, which held, by analogy, 19 to 13 doctoral rights obtained, but did not meet the criterion of differentiation in three fields of science. This, of course, is a certain imperfection of this original legislative proposal, that life has revealed enough. In addition, we are at a time when the Ministry of Science is preparing new systemic solutions for the university system, so it seems reasonable to expect a complete change, and the solution we are discussing today can be considered a legitimate vacatio legis for the upcoming changes. We know that the deadline for fulfilling the obligation under the regulations and regulations mentioned above is approaching, but some universities have failed to comply with these requirements. In general, this applies to only a few universities on the national scale, yet, while appreciating and recognising the high quality of education and the high level of teaching and research, which finds its expression, among other things. In the assessments of the National Accreditation Commission, and given their important importance, which was also mentioned by the rapporteur, for the development of the region, their elite role, we consider it appropriate to take into account both objective endogenous and exogenous factors affecting this state and to support the draft law amending the deadline for enforcing the requirement referred to in Article. 3 of the Higher Education Act, from 30 June 2020 We also take into account the fact that depriving them of their chance to do this job, which is in the interest of both these institutions and the general interest of Polish science, would certainly be an irreparable loss, if we were to reduce the chances of these universities and this would certainly cause secondary problems, problems related to the more difficult competitive situation in the higher education market. This could also affect the lives of graduates of these schools in the labour market. In view of the above, we therefore support the proposal to postpone the deadline within which the name of the university may be changed, i.e. the extension by 30 June 2020 of the deadline for adapting the names of universities to the requirements set out in Article. 3 laws. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law discussed today actually amends one article, art. 255, Law on Higher Education, i.e. refers to the extension of the time limit for the adaptation of the university to the requirements relating to the designation of the university. The university may use a specific name if it meets the strict conditions set out in the Act. These strictly specified conditions guarantee the quality of the university's work. These are the conditions that not only affect the attractiveness of this university to students, but also give graduates of this university a guarantee of employment in the labour market, guaranteeing that their studies will be respected, will be appreciated by employers. It seems that this is only a technical change and, of course, at this moment this change is to be introduced, while this bill concerns a deeper problem, the problem of the quality of the university's work, the problem of determining what the state requires of the university and how the state will also enforce these requirements from universities. We all want our universities to be seen well to provide quality education. We know and are well aware that not all of them can be called universities. There is also a need for these universities, which do not have this highest grade, they are also needed in these smaller towns, but the State should ensure that the criteria met by the universities guarantee the quality of the work of these universities and that they are also a business card and a symbol of this quality of work. We can't keep taking a step backwards and pulling back from these requirements with regard to the university. It is therefore extremely important what plans the Ministry of Science and Higher Education has and what will be the determination of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to enforce these plans. You lifted the Minister's secret at the meeting of the Education Committee, saying that the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is preparing to examine these conditions and to redefine them. However, I would very much ask that these conditions, which you may be proposing in the nearest future, not apply to individual universities, but guarantee the quality of work, on the one hand, that they guarantee that a student studying at a university called already because of its name, is guaranteed a high quality of education and is guaranteed appreciation on the labour market, not only Polish but also international, and on the other hand that universities would also want and be able to adapt to these conditions. As I am saying, this law is a technical act, which postpones the deadline, so we are not making any comments here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u103	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u104	Dear Marshal! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15, therefore the actual technical print project No 429, which would extend the deadline from 2016 to 2020, i.e. really giving universities the chance to adapt their names to the statutory terms. How, then, can we determine what is happening now? The fact is that for 7 years, universities did not adapt to these conditions, and they had rights, but in order to make it funnier, there were universities that had fulfilled the conditions, and they were not called e.g. universities. And that is the problem, because, in fact, I agree with the Supreme Court's opinion, which has been provided to the State, that, of course, the extension of such a deadline is at least harmful and debatable. Of course, there is also the problem of students here, because we do not take into account that students coming to such a university will think that it is a university in the full sense of the word. I am a freeman and I am not in favour of so many laws when it comes to higher education, because nothing, as usual, comes out of this. Polish universities are the weakest, they are in the fourth hundredth Shanghai list, the Philadelphia list, Polish science is not that good. Of course, there are pearls, such as pearls. Polish neurosurgery. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to focus here on a few other cases, because this can, of course, perpetuate a pathology. Literally every few months some scientist, some desperate man tells the truth about Polish science. For example, Paweł Dobrowolski, a Harvard graduate, in such a famous article, says that Harvard in Poland would be illegal, that we should, here, quote: reduce the power that professors have over universities and allow universities to turn into their private farm. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. The faculty lobby completely owned the universities because the state lets them. Finally, it is important to move away from strict state control of how universities are organised. And it would seem that it was only Paweł Dobrowolski said so. The team carrying out the "Watchdog" programme carried out in 2015 a study on "Open and fair competitions for academic positions" - is this a rule or an exception? Ladies and gentlemen, 55 units have been examined, 499 competition proceedings. So? What are the results of the watchdog program? It shows that universities only hold competitions to win their own. Raise the inbreeding of Polish science. It's not only weak, it's inbreeding, nepotism, pathology. It would seem that these two examples are an exception. No, Mr.Małgorzata Wanke-Jakubowska and Maria Wanke put up a comprehensive and excellent thesis: Polish science - the need for shock therapy. Growing bureaucracy, denying academic culture. 5 years ago Dr. Dybczyński, University of Wroclaw, wrote such an article.I am a baron, I do not want to live in the Middle Ages anymore. He wrote, "My dean is my count, my prince is... etc., and my emperor is the Rector, ladies and gentlemen. And now I conclude. Fiction complete. The Kukiz movement once again stands at the position of freedom and will vote for the extension, will recommend an extension by 2020, but this condition is that you think about it, because there are universities, I am talking specifically about the Academy of them. Jan Długosz in Częstochowa, who have long met these conditions and do not have a university in their name, and there are universities to which it is given the right and extends for the following years - up to four. To make it even more fun, there is a private university in Częstochowa, which has no rights and uses the word "Academia." Let the Minister of Science take care of the so-called. The Polish Academy, which abuses that word in its name, because it has no right to do so. Get the market in order now that you want to centrally manage what I am a great adversary of. Just do it right. Of course, we are counting on the elimination of habilitation, but the Kukiza movement is looking forward to the act prepared by Deputy Prime Minister Gowin. If Deputy Prime Minister Gowin does this, I hope the environment, including students, young scientists, because here we have very good thesis that young scientists are not able to break through, because this feudal system is just... Please pay attention to this famous lady, the perovist scientist, who actually functions phenomenally in Spain, but cannot break through in Poland. Why? Because he's a threat to all these nepots. And if you're [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to blame me, I've worked at college for six years, and I've seen it with my own eyes. Now the Częstochowa University of Technology is the best example of this. I hope that changes. Positive recommendation, with the condition I mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u105	Thank you very much. The Modern Club has tabled an amendment to the bill. Mr Krystian Jarubas, PSL, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u106	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Higher Education, print Nos 429 and 503. Ladies and gentlemen! As we understand, the change proposed by the applicant is about the possibility of using in the name of the university words such as the university, the technical university, the university so-called. adjective, e.g. The University of Natural Sciences, the University of Technology or the Academy of Sciences, by various universities that have so far been able to do so. The possibility of using each of these names involves the need for university units to have a specific number of powers to confer a doctoral degree. Given that there are currently five universities that have not met their statutory requirements, the amendment envisages a delay in the deadline for adapting university names by 2020. This will allow universities like you. The Catholic University of Lublin retain the right to use the name of the university. Importantly, the novel is related to the work on the new Higher Education Act, which clarifies the criteria for using the university name. In particular, it would be a matter of e.g. universities with a humanistic profile, in order to be entitled to use the name of the university, did not need, in addition to being entitled to a doctor's degree in humanities, to have an equivalent right, e.g. in technical areas. Ladies and gentlemen! The solution proposed above seems reasonable because it does not temporarily deprive the possibility of using the name "university'. At the same time, it is worth noting that this does not affect the level of student education in any way. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the proposed changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u107	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item... I'm sorry. Nine Members have asked questions. Would any of you like to come in again? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I invite Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club. There isn't. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In view of the fact that the law under discussion had already had an earlier novel in 2005 and 2010, I would like to ask the following question: Would the proposed extension of the deadline for making the relevant amendments by 30 June 2020 prove in practice sufficient to meet the new criteria by the universities concerned and will there not be a need for a further extension of that period? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u109	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We all agree that this is basically a technical law, but yet we have to learn lessons from today's event. The information provided by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education shows that work is underway on major changes in the institution's system, and that is what the Minister was already gracious to say today. I would like to know if this current experience will affect the concrete solutions that will make it unnecessary in the future, there will be no need for such technical legislation, that it will simply be envisaged in some way, so to speak. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u111	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Konrad Głębocki, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Using the word "university" in the name of the university has undoubtedly great value, it is about prestige, and it is also used by universities in their promotion, it translates it later, among others. for the size of the call. Minister, I have a question, I ask you to answer specifically: How many universities today have a problem with meeting the criteria, universities that already use the word "university" in their name, because it doesn't really apply to a large group? I would also like to appeal from this point of view that universities, which work very hard to meet these requirements, such as: The academy. Jan Długosz in Częstochowa, support so that they can use this honorable title in the future, the name of the university, because Jan Długosz Academy today cannot add this word in its name yet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Law on Higher Education is dictated by the possibility of bringing into conformity the nomenclature adopted in the Act by those universities which have not yet fulfilled the conditions laid down in the article. 3 laws. That limit date is 30 June of this year. The novel gives these universities another 4 years to comply with statutory requirements. My question, Minister, concerns the number of universities that have not yet met the statutory requirements of a group of universities, academy and polytechnics. Has the Ministry carried out such in-depth analyses? - And a friend of mine asked me that before. Is it very likely that these universities in this new period, this extension by 4 years, will actually meet these statutory requirements, or should they not be subject to verification of these thresholds? Maybe these thresholds are so limited that some universities with their intellectual potential will not meet these conditions? I don't think it's a good method to extend, move further deadlines, you need to reach for this in-depth analysis and find out where the obstacles are. Aren't those requirements of two doctoral qualifications in one area a limit for some universities that specialize in another area? I'm asking the Minister for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that this project is justified, that this solution is justified, especially since, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, a number of universities have made significant progress in this area. But there is a problem, because here we have to say that there are a number of universities that do not meet the statutory conditions and do not formally deserve the status and the name of the law. In this state of affairs I have a question: Would it not be appropriate - as I say, I am in favour of this law - for the Ministry to monitor this situation and to formalise this monitoring in such a way that the High Chamber in 2 years' time, i.e. in the middle of this period, would listen to the state in which these universities are aiming to achieve statutory standards? So wouldn't it be appropriate for us to listen here to the information on this subject, I repeat, e.g. in the middle of this period, i.e. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two years from now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u117	Thank you very much, sir. Today we have many guests in the Seym. I wanted to welcome the students from elementary school no. 6 in Knurov, who are listening to this debate. We'd like to welcome you all. [[Applause]] Especially since your teacher at this school once, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, is in the O.R. So that we welcome you very warmly. Watch the work in the Seym. And now I give the floor to Mrs Annie April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 3th Higher Education Act is extremely restrictive with regard to the requirements that determine the name of the university, and this in turn positions universities in the field of education. The changes introduced give universities a chance to have huge scientific achievements, but so far, universities that have not met these expectations. It can be a certain specificity of a given university or a certain specificity not only, but sort of specializing in certain areas. Catholic University of Lublin, for example. It's a college of great accomplishments. She didn't meet those conditions, and we couldn't say it wasn't a university. It is a university, as I said, about a huge scientific achievement. It is our duty, the Sejm, to give these universities an opportunity to meet these criteria so that they can meet these criteria by 2020 during the period we are talking about here. Although in my mind... I am very pleased to hear that you will be working on changing the entire bill. I share here the sentence that has already been drafted by one of the Members, that it is important to think deeply - what I am talking about - whether it is too restrictive or whether it does not cause excessive costs. Because just because other universities meet these requirements today doesn't mean it's not, I'm sorry I'm gonna use this colloquialism, [[♪ The bell ♪]] certain pumping of the subject. And I'm gonna ask that question real quick. Any law may give rise to expenditure for the State budget. Does this change determine any costs? If so, who will cover them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u119	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u120	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Over the last few decades, the creation of higher education institutions and the designation of their names in Poland have evolved, including several times in opposite directions. For example, I personally started my studies at the Główna Szkoła Gospodarstwa Wiejskiego, and without changing the university, I graduated 5 years later from the Agricultural Academy, and in the following years the SGGW was restored, here in the capital city of Warsaw. That's the first problem. Second problem. In Poland, when I studied, there were three forest departments: in Warsaw, in Poznań and in Cracow, and that was enough. Today there are many, many more forest departments at different universities. In addition, many people study in environmental departments. Minister, shouldn't the number of places in universities be adapted to the needs of particular areas of economic life? Should it not be possible to preserve the historical names of universities whose traditions last more than half a century? Minister, could you answer: How many forest departments and environmental departments are at present, and where are they? How many graduates in these fields do they end up in? How many people, according to these areas, with this subject, with what has ended, find suitable, consistent work according to their education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u121	Thank you very much, sir. The list of speakers... Excuse me, Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, Kukiz Club15. I am so sorry, miss.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u122	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very short question, because we are dealing de facto with a situation where universities are somehow deceiving students, attracting them with their prestigious name, even though they have no right, should not have the right to use such a name. In this context, it seems that the use of the university name is a political decision rather than a substantive one. I wanted to ask the authors of the project whether they provided any mechanisms for informing students about this. Students as the most important students at the university have the right to know whether they are studying at the university, whether it is just a substitute for the university or at least a university that actually provides a high level of teaching but does not meet criteria that should be clear and transparent. Besides, criteria are created so that they are respected, not that the law gives the possibility to circumvent the criteria sideways. So that I would very much ask for the creation of mechanisms for informing students about this and for not prolonging this state of affairs, because in total it will be 11 years - now 7 plus another 4 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u123	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u124	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not long ago, the Sejm adopted by majority the law establishing a university in Gorzów Wielkopolski and giving it the name of the academy to grow up, as confirmed by the applicants themselves, because this university did not have and does not have any powers to award a doctor's title and to fulfil this requirement it received from the Sejm in the loan of 3 years. Now we are discussing again not how to force universities to join in strong scientific centres competing with similar ones in Europe and the world, i.e. de facto how to reduce the number of universities in Poland. Instead, we extend the act to the existence of small and weak universities, extending the deadline for them to comply with the law which entitles them to the name of university or academy. The statement that these are universities with broad recognition at home and abroad, which are constantly developing, which are important academic centres in the region, cannot be true because truly recognised academic centres have no problem adapting to such basic requirements as the relevant recognised scientific staff or awarding scientific titles. They defend themselves with their quality, and thus with prestige in Poland and abroad. Unfortunately, the best Polish university is only at the end of the fourth hundred international rankings, such as Shanghai rankings. Hence my question: Does the government have a different plan to increase the potential of Polish universities than to move only during the inevitable verification of weak Polish scientific centres bearing the name university or academy of this amendment of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u125	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Alexander Bobko, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to address a number of important questions that have been raised here in the discussion. Please state that the criteria that allow the use of university names, adjective university, polytechnics and academy under the law are defined in the 2005 Act, when there was a certain state of fact, i.e. there was a certain number of universities that used these names and the criteria defined at that time did not meet. Some of them, it turns out, despite the passing of years, do not fulfill them also today. As for the essence of these criteria, in order to have as if the deepest awareness of exactly what we are talking about, these criteria are in some sense contractual in nature, this is a convention. There is a thought, there was the thought of a university should have a large number of doctoral rights, but it is not only about the quantity, but also about the distribution of these doctoral powers in different areas of knowledge. And that's where the number came from -- right now it's 10 doctoral privileges in three different areas of knowledge. This is somehow a rational criterion. It was, it was worth noting, formulated at a time when it lasted very intensely - and today she, perhaps less intensely, is also debating the issue of habilitating powers. At that time it seemed that perhaps we would give up on the rights of habilitating, so this criterion referred to the rights of doctoralization. Previously not written properly, not fully written formula defined the rank of the university and related more to the rights of habilitation than the rights of doctoralism. Perhaps it's worth coming back to that for reasons I'm about to talk about. And, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that these defined, otherwise unexcessive criteria may be, however, for several universities... here were just specific questions, what this quantitatively looks like. As far as universities are concerned, at the moment we have 19 schools in Poland that use the name of the university, plus the Pontifical University of John Paul II, which is a small school. This name is used by the university as if from the Roman edict, you can say, hence it is recognized, it also works according to Polish law, but it is a separate law, so the Papal University as if this discussion did not apply. However, we have 19 universities and 5 of these 19 still have a problem. Maybe I won't exchange them, but I'll say this: one of these universities has 19 doctoral rights, but it doesn't meet the criterion because it lacks one authority, probably in technical science. So it shows that... Because many universities were founded on the basis of humanities schools, one name I can mention, because here came the Catholic University of Lublin, a university with exceptional weight and position in Polish culture, but a humanities university which does not meet these requirements. In fact, we need to ask her if there's any point in her fulfilling it. KUL has just started expanding departments, one technical department from this point of view, but it's not really the point of KUL developing technical departments to meet this criterion. [[It's fake.]] So after years, it is probably worth thinking about some modification of this criterion, so that it is high, because in my opinion the bar should be suspended high. Perhaps the number of habilitating rights would be such a criterion today, I do not know, e.g. Five, six habilitating rights, not what is. But this is for discussion, ladies and gentlemen. We hope that this is precisely the issue of the division of schools, a certain category of schools to be reorganized, in accordance with today's conditions, in the new law. The question here, however, is whether nothing will happen, whether these universities will meet these requirements if we extend. It seems, I mean. That's what it seemed like four years ago. It's a little bit like that, that kind of proceding doesn't give you any reason to be satisfied. Ladies and gentlemen, I have accurate data on universities. All these universities are really very close, i.e. There's one university that has nine doctoral rights, and all the others are well over 10, 12 to 19. There is only a problem, most often there is a problem with technical sciences just in the case of universities, which were created on the basis of pedagogical schools or humanities schools. This is not a problem comparable to universities, but one that was created by combining the WSP with some engineering school in the region. That's when they sort of get it done. The problem doesn't apply to polytechnics. There's no polytechnic that doesn't meet the requirement. We have five academys that don't meet that requirement. The name is important here, it is organizing, but in this it is a prestigious and symbolic issue, which shows very well the example of the Mining and Steel Academy, which is one of the biggest and best Polish technical universities, while for historical reasons it still uses the name of the Mining and Hutnicza Academy. As far as I know, there's no project to change that name. On the other hand, when it comes to the Częstochowa Academy, there is a question here, according to my knowledge, it has five rights to doctorate at the moment. So in order to become an adjective university, you need at least six of these powers, and that's also differentiated. Because there are seven more so-called. adjective universities, which also have, say, an adequate number of doctoral rights, but do not meet precisely this quality requirement in specific fields that are associated with the name, even the Pedagogical University in Krakow. It's also a very good pedagogical school, which has a lot of rights to doctorism, but the name "pedagogical" is a historical name, because pedagogy is discipline. It's hard to have more doctoral rights in pedagogy, it just doesn't make sense, it's impossible. I don't know how many forest departments there are. I don't have any information here. I can check it out. If you are interested, we will put this in writing. On the other hand, one more statement has been made in your statement, whether the question, actually very important, is that you have raised here that there are too many schools at the moment, too many students, so you should limit it. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a reduction in college space in the previous system. At that time, the number of students was very limited. If we are honest about pro-quality criteria, state limitation is, of course, a very strong pro-quality criterion. If we allow study, I don't know every tenth of a young man, it'll be natural competition, they'll get the best. Then, by nature, we will have a chance at a much higher quality of teaching and quality of study than when everyone can study. So it's a certain civilization or cultural decision, which way to go. For 26 years, since 1989 or 1990, however, we have been pursuing a policy of availability to study, perhaps too wide. Here in these discussions on the new law, this thread may also appear, but I do not think, because in Europe, however, the trend is that higher education is widely available. Poland also entered this system. I don't think there are any ideas, I don't know any ideas for you to go back to reducing the number of places in college. Today, these are autonomous decisions of universities, which, if they meet formal requirements for conducting studies, can simply open them, and the Ministry is in this situation more a notary who notes and issues decisions on the right to conduct courses. Actually, there's not much of an instrument for intervening or saying that there's no point in going to college. Perhaps the Ministry's powers should be increased here, but again, in order for you not to read the fact that the government wants to impose some of its draconian rights on free and autonomous universities. That's what I said, that's what I said actually, but there was a lot here, maybe not a lot, but in one speech there were a lot of bitter words at the address, about the state of Polish science, about the negative role of professorship. Ladies and gentlemen, there are pathologies in every space. Polish science is probably not free from these various pathologies either. Professors are also human and it is very easy to give precedents or some examples of inappropriate behavior, to say the most delicately. But, ladies and gentlemen, the hierarchical system or hierarchical structure of the academic space is to some extent a natural structure. It's at least 1,000 years old, and maybe longer, tradition. There is, of course, a problem not even as much as allowing young people to be involved in this structure. But the idea of the university from the very beginning is this: this openness, that the master shares his knowledge and invites him to share this knowledge to inoculate, encourage young people, young students to act for science. This is, of course, a beautiful idea, at least 1,000 years old, in fact having over 2,000 years of tradition. Today, however, in a modern world, in which there is a large element of commercialization in which universities are often forced to act more like corporations whether business companies than such temples of knowledge, the realization of this ideal is perhaps more difficult. However, here I would say that we should not fire a child with a bath so that we do not say that the problem of Polish science is a profession and that, I don't know, remove the profession, then the space will open up and the young will dominate it. I don't think that was the intention of the Member either. I share this concern: the issue of scientific promotion, the issue of creating conditions for young people today and encouraging them to devote themselves to this exciting life activity of learning - that is what we need to create mechanisms that encourage the most capable people to do so - that is a great task. This is not very good, but it is probably not as bad as the Member in his speech, you know, short and such a password, he was kind to say. On the other hand, we hope that work over political divisions will soon be able to re-create the records - shorter ones. Today the bill counts, has over 200 articles. We hope that this will be a shorter bill, that it will be clearer and that on the one hand it will provide autonomy to universities, and on the other hand it will create conditions that will make Polish science grow in the near future. And that's what I'd like you to have. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u127	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Iwona Michalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to thank you very much for all the votes we heard here today from you. I'm very, very happy for you. Although it's only technical, as we all said, changes, but actually we speak with one voice, we're all in favour. I would like to see all changes in higher education always enjoy such general support from everyone - and from the left, and from the right, and sitting at the centre - in this Seym. I just wanted to reply to the Member of the Kukiz club15 - I'm sorry, I don't remember the name - that it is the state accreditation committee that defines the status of the university by categorising it, and this categorization is public information, and really every future student can just get acquainted with it. That's how it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u129	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Act amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws (prints Nos 433 and 504). I ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the work on the Parliamentary draft amendment to the Law on the revision of the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print No 433. The project entered the Sejm on 5 April 2016 and was addressed to the first reading in the committee on 20 April 2016. The first reading of the draft law took place on 12 May this year. The committee's report is contained in print No 504. During the examination of the draft law, changes have been made which do not change its substance, but only in a more correct legislative manner create the Single Anti-Plagiarism System. The draft amendment concerns the creation of a Single Anti-Plagiarity System and the introduction of an obligation for universities to check written diploma work using this system and to extend the deadline for the implementation of the obligation for university rectors to transfer the data on diploma work to a nationwide repository, whose defence took place after 30 September 2009. The obligation to check written diploma work for the detection of plagiarism has been imposed on universities in Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 Law on Higher Education, added by law amending, according to which the university is required to check written diploma work before the diploma exam using anti-plagiarism programmes cooperating with the nationwide repository of written diploma work. The purpose of this provision was to reduce the lack of integrity in the preparation of the diploma work. With regard to the implementation of this obligation, there have been difficulties with the need to purchase the appropriate software necessary to carry out the obligation to check the diploma work. These difficulties are mainly due to the generation of significant costs on the part of universities related to the purchase and administration of an appropriate anti-plagiarism system. The current state of law has thus created a double obligation on the university side: checking the work of the anti-plagiarism system, first, while at the same time paying for their significant costs of purchasing and operating the relevant software, second. Therefore, it is highly justified to develop a Single Anti-Plagiarism System which is made available free of charge to all universities in the country, which will provide comprehensive anti-Plagiarisation services for the whole higher education system and will also preserve the principle of equal access for smaller universities, for example. in competition proceedings they did not have equal opportunities with large universities or consortia of higher education institutions. By doing so, universities will be provided with a tool from the State to fulfil the obligation imposed by the law on them. The project foresees that the creation of the Single Anti-Plagic System will be the responsibility of the Minister responsible for higher education, who will be able to commission both its development and its administration to the research institute, providing funding for this purpose. In addition, the draft law provides for the withdrawal at the time of the commencement of the obligation to check prior to the examination of written diploma work using anti-plagiarism programmes. It is assumed that the examination of diploma work using the Single Anti-Plagiarism System will be carried out, starting from the academic year 2018/2019. The delay in applying this provision is due to the need to provide sufficient time for the development and implementation of the Single Anti-Plagic System. The Law on Higher Education requires university rectors to introduce their diploma work into the National Diploma Repository as soon as they pass their diploma exam. It also provides for the obligation for university rectors to submit data on their diploma work to the National Diploma Repository by 31 December 2016. The inclusion of diploma works in the National Diploma Repository was intended to extend the possibilities of comparison both by the promoter and by the Polish Accreditation Board. However, the deadline for fulfilling this obligation was too short in practice due to the wide variety of forms and formats in which the diploma work was submitted. In view of the numerous signals from the academic community, the project proposes to extend the implementation of this obligation until 31 December 2018. The draft provides for the entry into force of the new provisions on the day following the date of publication. It is desirable to introduce both the provisions for the development of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System as soon as possible and the provision for the extension of the deadline for the transfer to the repository of diplomatic works whose defence was successful after 30 September 2009. The project has financial implications and provides for public expenditure. The programme, which will cost up to PLN 14 million, will be financed from public funds, including mainly from the European Union's funds under the Operational Programme - Knowledge, education and development. Following the first reading and a positive examination of the proposed changes, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u131	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The draft amends the Law of 27 July 2005 and the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws, hereinafter referred to as the Amending Act. The proposed amendments aim to create a Single Anti-Plagiarity System and introduce an obligation for universities to check written diploma work using this system. The project mainly responds to the need to harmonise the anti-Plagiarism system as a tool to address the problem of lack of integrity in the preparation of diploma work. The existing legal status has created an obligation on the part of the university and has thus imposed considerable costs on it to purchase and operate the relevant software. The proposed project addresses the difficulties of universities so far resulting from the creation and administration of significant costs associated with the purchase and administration of an appropriate anti-plagiarism system. Its aim is to increase university access to the system. The proposed amendment goes hand in hand with the principle of equal access to a solution for all universities regardless of their size or status. The introduction of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System, which will be made available free of charge to all universities, will provide comprehensive anti-Plagiarism services in the higher education system. By doing so, universities will be provided with a tool from the State to fulfil their obligation under the Law on Higher Education. The project foresees that the creation of the Single Anti-Plagic System will be the responsibility of the Minister responsible for higher education, who will be able to commission both its development and the administration of the research institute, while providing financial resources for this purpose. The solution proposed in the draft amendment of the law also extends the deadline for the implementation of the obligation for university rectors to provide written data on diploma work to the national repository, whose defence was successfully completed after 30 September 2009, from 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2017. In addition, the bill provides for the withdrawal at the time of the start of the obligation to check the diploma work using the anti-plagiarism system. The implementation of this obligation to use the single system will start from the academic year 2018/2019. The draft also provides for the entry into force of the new provisions 14 days after the date of publication. It is desirable to introduce both the provisions for the development of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System as soon as possible and the provision for the extension of the deadline for the transfer to the repository of diplomatic works whose defence was successful after 30 September 2009. The position of the Law and Justice Club is to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u133	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project proposes the creation by the Minister of Science and Higher Education and the financing by the Minister of Science and Higher Education of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System. This sounds attractive to universities because it removes the obligation to prepare such a program from universities. Colleges will also not have to finance this programme. Therefore, the environmental opinion on the idea of this project is as if it is positive, while the environment does not fully agree with all the provisions proposed by the group of Members, but, with very much acceptance, I understand, the Minister for Science and Higher Education, expressed at the committee meeting. I think that the Minister will not speak, as in the previous points, that it is not him that it is Members. The minister is a minister, he's in the ruling coalition, so he makes decisions, too, and he's responsible for those decisions. The Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland draws attention to a provision which we also think is bad, because it unnecessarily limits the circle of entities to which the Minister may order the creation and maintenance of such a system if we agree on this idea. I'm going to talk about this idea. In the project you limit this circle of actors to research institutes only, and in fact this definition is already so precise that you can guess which research institute it is about. Here the academic community proposes, however, to expand this circle of actors. In this respect, We propose an amendment, I will put this amendment in your hands, Marshal. After all, not only research institutes, but universities can also apply to create such a system or maintain it. As for the idea itself, as I said, the transfer of funding from university to Minister of Science and Higher Education from the point of view of universities is attractive. The question, however, is whether it is attractive from the point of view of the state budget, because it could be done in such a way that what the Minister will give to the universities simply, provided that the money in the state budget will be. We have a lot of doubts here, because the Commission's work has also raised the issue of the cost of creating this single system. There were discrepancies, the Minister of Science and Higher Education spoke about 14 million, and the Polish Chamber of Computer Science and Telecommunications speaks about other costs. It's really hard to find. here information on how much it will cost, and after all how much it will cost, to prepare such a central system, to protect this system from external interference, to maintain this system in the future, to ensure the quality of the system, to keep it up to date and to upgrade it will cost a lot, and we have experience in building such central systems and it is not easy at all. One more remark. The anti-Plagiarism system cannot be the only tool to fight plagiarism. First of all, people's integrity must be at the top of the line here. We cannot be held responsible for the situation that is at the moment, to burden only students and to say that they are downloading, copying, etc., because they live in some reality and very much depends on their teachers, whether we teach this honesty from the very beginning. So there is a great responsibility on the side of the university, on the side of the promoter, on the side of teachers - such integrity on everyone [[♪ The bell ♪]] stage. And you have to remember that when you talk about all kinds of technical safeguards, you have to remember first and foremost that you have to raise them to honesty. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Oh, right, right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u135	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u136	Dear Marshal! Minister! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Law on Higher Education and the Law on amending the Law on Higher Education and certain laws. This is print number 433. So many formalities, and now it's concrete. Of course, it is very positive that the fight against plagiarism will continue. I'm not convinced that this fight against plagiarism existed until then. This kind of decentralisation also caused that universities were perhaps not interested in a full fight, and they did so in a very selective way. The Act introduces a uniform anti-plagiarism system - that is the proposal - and there is a proposal to create a repository free of charge. It's all positive. I'm about to speak, unfortunately, of unfavorable qualities. It introduces the administration and development of this system by one unit. This is no longer so positive and this is what the environment is paying attention to. Of course, we have here a schedule, i.e. the rectors are obliged by 31 December 2018 to transfer all the works that were defended after 30 September 2009 to this repository free of charge. What are the weaknesses of this system? Firstly, we have picked up, as Minister Shumilas has shown, that in fact only a research institute - in fact one or two - will be able to prepare this system. However, we believe that such a system should be opened within the framework of competitiveness and that not only universities but also private actors should start here. We're a little scared of the cost because we're talking about 14 million zlotys here. The question is, couldn't it be cheaper? Of course, it is better than in the case of the famous ePUAP, which was mentioned by Minister Streżyńska, or other portals, unemployment services for PLN 50 million. But I hope it's not that expensive. A negative feature is also the lack of separation - a study in counter-administration. It doesn't have to be one subject at all. The weakness that Professor Zembala pointed out, and I absolutely agree with it - he raised this in the committee and great respect for Professor Zembala for the fact that he said it - is that in principle this plagiarism system is selective, because it concerns only students and not scientists. And Professor Zembala, I'm going to repeat that sentence, he said, "Why turn off scientists?" Let's verify the scientists, of course. Here I would suggest that all scientists after 1989 have verified PhDs, habilitations and their scientific work, including so-called. - here the problem has already been solved - Slovak habilitations. We have 300 people with Slovak habilitations. We would also like to see, Minister, the quality of these habilitations, although, thank you for this, this problem has been solved. The Kukiz movement would have made another offer. It would be wonderful if the Ministry designed e.g. technical conditions, that is to say, what the CMS system, engine, security, algorithms, etc. is supposed to look like. This system, however, so that universities themselves in tenders can somehow solve what the company will do. Therefore, this competitiveness is very important for us here. I would ask what would happen when the plagiarism was identified in this system. Because I understand that there's an algorithm, there's a procedure, which means that we're picking up someone like that or there's an automatic investigation of someone like that, and they're taking away a title or a degree. But, of course, it is positive that we are starting to fight the plagiarisms, the plague of copy-paste, the plagiarisms that are common at the university. You shouldn't think about it. Perhaps this money is worth eliminating frauds because that's what you should call people who plagiarize work and get some authority on it. But perhaps even more should be done. Please note that there is a great market for school certificates, a market for university degrees, and this may also make it easier to fight counterfeiting at all. And a big plus, of course. The Kukiz Club will support this proposal with great pleasure, pointing the Ministry to the sea of opportunities - but also allowing private operators to tender, build at least this system or build and administer it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u137	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! The very idea of creating a single anti-plague system that would be open source accessible to all actors, both public and non-public schools, is not a bad idea, although, of course, this solution has some drawbacks. The first fundamental drawback is that it is already interfering with the existing market in which private operators operate. So, to some extent, we're taking the chance of operating when they've already invested some of their resources in creating these programs. Secondly, it is undoubtedly the provision in the law itself concerning the fact that it would be research institutes, is not a good solution and on behalf of Modernity I have tabled an amendment to this provision which says that the Ministry should place an order with some external entity, which could be both a research institute as another university and another entity capable of carrying out such a system. There is also a question of adapting university regulations, as well as a rather important question of the fact that perhaps such an anti-plagiarism system should be covered not only by diploma work, but also by a wider range of various kinds of scientific work that we are dealing with at universities. Note that not only diploma, but also doctoral or scientific work are often part of the plagiarism. This is true even for large books. Therefore, in order for the university to be able to be responsible for its employees and to avoid plagiarism, it should be able to use such a system and even require that it benefit to a much wider extent than only in relation to its diploma work. On the other hand, the essential point is that we believe that limiting this order to research institutes alone is not justified. The amendment was tabled at the moment. As a matter of principle, it would be possible to consider, because the justification for this is a little lacking, we know what the costs of this new project will be, but a little short of the aggregate costs, how much it costs to operate anti-plagiar systems in all universities in the country at the moment, i.e. to compare current costs to future costs. We know that this would cost around 14 million, we know that there is a question of European Union funding, but we do not know the current costs and we cannot compare these two figures in any way. And, as I say, there is a market in which operators already operate, and this law actually deprives them of the opportunity to operate on the existing rules. So, to be honest, with a number of doubts, and taking into account the amendment, we need to decide what we are doing with this bill. Thank you. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u140	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Way of Youth gathered at the Gallery! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and the Act amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print Nos 433 and 504. Ladies and gentlemen! By proceeding with the above draft law, it would be appropriate to start with the definition of the word "plagiarism." Not every violation of the right to authorship is equivalent to a plagiarism, i.e. consciously, intentionally imputing the authorship to someone else's intellectual good. It may be due to acts that are innocent or committed by involuntary means. The diversity of situations can therefore affect criminal, civil and administrative liability, as well as ethical assessments of proceedings. At the same time, today we are dealing with many types of anti-Plagiarism systems. Some of them use simple methods of analysis of texts. It is most commonly used to compare texts using a one-to-one method, where a computer program scans works in search of identical fragments. But, ladies and gentlemen, just change the order of words in a sentence or insert microspaces or white sign - e.g. we combine two words with the symbol of the keyboard, written in white font - and the plagiarism will remain undetected. Therefore, the proposed amendments are so important. The amendments concern the creation of a Single Anti-Plagiarity System and the introduction of an obligation for universities to check written diploma work using this system and to extend the deadline for the performance of the obligation for university rectors to transfer to a nationwide repository of written diploma work, data on the diploma work which the defence took place after 30 September 2009. The existing state of law creates an obligation on the part of the university, at the same time imposing significant costs on the purchase and operation of the relevant software. It is therefore justified to develop a Single Anti-Plagic System, which is made available free of charge to all universities in the country. As a result, higher education institutions will be provided with a tool from the State to fulfil their obligation under the Law on Higher Education. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u141	Thank you very much. The questions were asked by 14 ladies and gentlemen. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As an academic teacher, I came across students applying copy-paste methods during the preparation of the work. Particularly worrying was the case of pasting fragments from the speech at the international conference at the National Bank of Poland. Students did not see the wrongness of their actions, they did not associate them with theft of intellectual property. My question is: Will this legislative change improve the plagiarism prevention system and will the restrictive measures emerging plagiarism also apply to other groups of the academic community? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u143	Now the question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u144	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The introduction of the Single Anti-Plagic System will be a bad decision. Firstly, this is a supposed rationalization of expenditure. In Poland, anti-Plagiarism systems operate on more than half of the university. This costs less than 2 million universities a year, and the new system will be built for 14 million, plus the costs of continuous improvement, updating and maintenance. There's no reason to think the system's gonna work better. Secondly, this is questionable quality. Today, universities themselves choose anti-Plagiarism systems. This competitive market will be destroyed by a system of very dubious quality. Such a standard operates in Slovakia, which is not famous for the best quality of higher education. Let us take an example from other countries that are doing better, e.g. from Great Britain, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which has a competitive anti-Plagiarism system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u146	The socio-economic consequences of your bill will be negative...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u147	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u148	...costs will rise and quality will fall. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u149	... Joanna Borowiak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u150	Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u151	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The proposal to create a Single Anti-Plagic System made available to all Polish universities free of charge is a very good solution. Polish universities are waiting for them, they will enjoy it and will certainly use it. To date, Polish universities have been forced to implement the statutory obligation, bearing the high costs of purchasing the appropriate anti-plagiarism program and the costs of administering it. The proposed solution is desirable, frees universities from costs, facilitates access to the system. Will it also improve the quality of higher education in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u153	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna Cicholska, the club... Oh, no, I'm sorry, Mrs. Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. [[She was just a minute ago.]] Oh, she was asking, I'm sorry. Anna Cicholska, of course, I told you right, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u154	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, which concerns the creation of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System and the introduction of an obligation for universities to check written diploma work using this system, is a good change. The universities are obliged to provide the Polish Diploma Repository with data on their diploma work, the defence of which was successfully completed after 30 September 2009. Therefore, I have a question for your applicant: will the creation of a central anti-plagiarism system guarantee all, even the smallest universities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] verification of the quality of the diploma work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u155	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We should all count the money well, we don't have much money. Public money must be spent sparingly and intentionally. Minister, I therefore have a question: Will the proposed solution be more expensive or cheaper than the current model? I also have a question: Do you not have concerns about the institutions indicated for this task, the competences of these institutions, experience and timeliness in carrying out this task? I would like to ask again, because, like Mr Swallow here, I would like to know what will happen when the plagiarism is detected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u157	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Anti-Plagiarism systems have been operating in universities for many years. I am aware that each university has its own anti-Plagiarism system, and each of them arouses huge emotions. I am pleased that the Ministry has looked closer at this problem and sees the shortcomings of these systems - not all of them properly detect plagiarisms, but for the Government of Law and Justice the quality of our science and the integrity of students and researchers is very important. The creation of a Single Anti-Plagiarity System should improve the quality of this service and increase the possibility for everyone to access this system. Will the Single Anti-Plagic System operate only in Poland? Are similar systems already in place in other countries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u159	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Free Anti-Plagiarism System is to be established within 2 years at the Information Processing Centre and is estimated to cost 14 million PLN. By creating its system, the center is to be based on an algorithm that will be selected by means of a competition. There are already voices that such a way of constructing the system may not be the best for simple reasons - the winner of the competition is to make available the anti-plagiarism algorithm to the Information Processing Center to construct the system. We're talking intellectual property. I have one brief question: Why is there no invitation to tender for anti-plagiarism services? Please justify the solution imposing an obligation on the Information Processing Centre to prepare this system [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the basis of other people's intellectual property. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u161	Thank you very much, Member. Now you are asking Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a humble product of academic misery, which is forced through anti-Plagiarism solutions to join the network, I have an enormous problem with this. I'm a humanist, cyberspace isn't my natural niche, but it's hard, sometimes. Nevertheless, I would like to ask whether the Single Anti-Plagiarism System will help me and the university at work and whether it will work better than before. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u163	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u164	Since a few questions have already been asked in this Chamber about the content of the questions that I wanted to ask, and of course I am wholehearted that this Single Anti-Plagiarism System should be created in our country and that it should actually be in the hands of the Polish State, I have such a question for the representatives of the Ministry: How will our Polish system, which we want to introduce, refer to the best systems that are in force in the world? Will we really be equal to the best? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u165	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Konrad Głębocki, club Law and Justice. There isn't? You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u166	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Before I ask a question, I would like to express my satisfaction that it is proposed to introduce a Single Anti-Plagic System. It's a much better solution than dropping the obligation to have such a system of checking work for the exclusion of plagiarism at universities. I have a question for the Minister: Will this uniform system give us a cost-scale effect? How does the Minister assess the cost of introducing and operating this single system in relation to the costs that universities would bear and would bear in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u167	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Centre for Research and Development in 2015 announced competitions in the program of Knowledge, Education, Development with a total of PLN 100 million for development and purchase of licenses to support existing systems of registration of diploma works. First question: Why is such a state catalogue of diploma work so late? Is it true that a competition is planned for the creation of an engine of the Single Anti-Plagic System for which another 14 million PLN is to be allocated? Next question: Who to the so-called. Is the repository supposed to have access in practice? Teaching does not always have a collection of paperwork in electronic form, as I read in the explanatory memorandum, allowing for simple introduction to the repository. How much is this scan going to cost, and which research institute is going to develop this new system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u169	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Should I introduce a Single Anti-Plagiarism System? It is important to answer clearly yes, because widespread, even pathological violations of copyright or simply trade in diploma work on the one hand are really a way of reducing the ethos and dignity of academics, and on the other hand adversely affect the social assessment of higher education. So, do you want to bring it in? We immediately say yes. My question, on the other hand, is: In Poland we have major, small, public, non-public universities. So, Minister, will the introduction of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System keep the principle of equal access also for small universities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u171	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Marzena Machalek, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The parliamentary project that we are discussing today, which we are discussing today, was created in cooperation with the Ministry, which is why my question will be to the Minister. In general, the speeches show that we all agree that the plague of plagiarism at universities must be fought effectively, not only in relation to the plagiarism among students, but also in relation to the plagiarism at other levels of gaining scientific degrees. My question is: Why would a coherent Single Anti-Plagiarism System - I would like to make it clear - will it be more effective to fight plagiarism than, let's say, autonomously, separately in universities? Why create this coherent, unified anti-plagia system [[♪ The bell ♪]] will it have a greater impact on the fight against the plague of plagiarism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u173	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u174	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions that arise from the opinion of the RASP concerning this draft law. First of all, aren't you worried that universities won't be able to get the work into the system in time? Because there is a deadline that obliges universities to complete and enter works that were probably created after 30 September 2009. There are signals from the university that this term is too short. And the second point: Is it necessary to amend the rules of study as regards compulsory checking of written work of diploma anti-plagiarism programmes? These universities may amend their regulations by 30 April. Today is May 18th, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the bill will certainly not come into force before April 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u175	Thank you very much. Now you ask Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The introduction of a unified anti-plagia system is a very good solution. This will save universities the costs of detecting plagiarism. A unified system will also ensure a level playing field for each work. However, so far many IT systems have proved to be a failure, such as an IT system that supports the payment of subsidies by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Is it certain that everything will be ready in time this time? Why will the system cost as much as 14 million PLN? What will be the cost of administration of this system? We remember Emp@tia, a portal for the homeless for PLN 50 million, hence fears for further multi-million projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Dardziński will now speak at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased with this debate on the Single Anti-Plagiarism System. Thank you very much for all the votes and I am pleased that there is actually a high level of compatibility that we should fight plagiarism, even if it is not the agreement that we should use advanced online, electronic or IT instruments to do this. We even agree that it would be best if there was a Single Anti-Plagiarism System. The question of who has a Single Anti-Plagic System to do and who to pay for it remains to be discussed. The situation is this way. Allow me not to address all the questions one at a time, but I will try to accumulate it a bit, because the threads are repeating, so I will answer the next threads that appeared in the questions. The first point is that the Single Anti-Plagic System will be financed mostly from European funds and not from national funds. He asked why it would cost as much as 14 million PLN. In fact, the Member gave himself an answer right away. The program or Emp@tia system was supposed to cost 50 million, so 14 at 50 million is less. Basically, it's about spending less money on this system. One of your fellow Members pointed to a competition organized by the National Centre for Research and Development, where we were to spend PLN 100 million on the operation of the current anti-Plagiarism system, of which the list of beneficiaries consisted of 50 entities which were supposed to receive PLN 36 million. Thus, the cost proposed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is radically lower than the costs that are necessary to bear in the current system of anti-plagiarism programmes. The Member of the Civic Platform spoke about the fact that this system costs only PLN 2 million today. This system costs only that today because it is used by only half of the university, and they only check these works optionally, so only a small radius of work is checked. At the same time, she pointed out, a little maliciously comparing us to Slovakia... However, we should respect our neighbors, perhaps even learn from them. Since they have a problem with the quality of science, they use the best ways to improve this quality of science, and in this respect the Single Anti-Plagic System is one of the most innovative solutions. As far as other countries are concerned, this is indeed a European trend. So far this market has been distracted, but countries see the problem. What is it? I will refer again to what she said, pointing to Great Britain. In the UK, yes, there was a competitive anti-Plagiarism market. What's the end of it? The fact that after a few years the cost of handling anti-Plagiarism has increased by 40% and today the British are considering building something closer to the Single Anti-Plagic System, not responding to requirements, attention, not to the market, but to the intermediary, because we are dealing with a very specific situation in the case of the Single Anti-Plagic System. Namely, on one side we have an ORPD, i.e. the National Diploma Repository, which is managed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the repository is in its jurisdiction, although it is directly managed by the Information Processing Centre. On the other hand, we have universities, which are also mostly public entities, which are supported by state subsidies, or we have private universities where students pay for their studies. The free market proposal is: let's put private entrepreneurs between these two public institutions, who will charge a fee for mediation in the exchange of data. It's not economically rational, it's not technologically rational, it's not rational under any circumstances. This is merely the introduction of a mandatory toll, which someone will collect, between two elements of the public higher education system, because private schools, even if they are private entities, are nevertheless part of the public system. The Polish State should make every effort to ensure that the higher education system, in general the education system, has as little financial burden as possible on both the state and private students who pay for their university studies. Thus, it will never happen that a system which is exclusively financed and maintained by the State is more expensive than a system in which there is an intermediary, because that means that this intermediary would have to add to its business. And no commercial entity has any interest in adding to the maintenance of the anti-plagiarism system. So what do the estimates look like - because there was also a question of how much it would cost - if you left this state as it is now? It is estimated that by multiplying the average number of diploma work that is defended at Polish universities, by the current offer, which was made by anti-Plagiarist companies present on the market, we can say that the annual cost of handling such a system is about 12 We are building, spending 14 million at once, but we will have a system which will cost approximately 2 million, which is going to cost us 10 million every year in the following years, so after a year the whole system will return to us, and in the following years it will be only profit. And this is not a good situation in which we will only go to the market. We are free marketers, we are in favour of private entities, but we are in favour of business where free entrepreneurs They're looking for private clients. There must be no free entrepreneurs who seek only public customers and want to operate under the public system. This is not a positive phenomenon for the economy. This system is therefore cheaper and more profitable financially for both private and public universities. Attention, it provides the same quality product to everyone, regardless of wealth, i.e. large universities, large universities from big cities, as well as very small universities, which are in smaller towns with less financial potential. So we have - here was the question of equality between these universities - ensured equality of all actors. This system is cheaper and this system is also more efficient in operation. I will refer here to the comments that were related to the question about the institute, why one institute. It was actually a difficult time. Since we have the nature of free marketers, at first we thought that we should make a maximum open invitation to tender, in which all the players present on the market who already have anti-plagiarism solutions or are working on anti-plagiar solutions, or would just like to come up with anti-plagiarism solutions. It's just that there's a risk. First of all, you know exactly what an IT tender means. He usually costs twice as much as originally planned, and most often ends in failure. Secondly, tenders tend to last for a long time, and in the end, tenders do not usually end in success. Why aren't they successful? It is because they do not clearly identify an entity with competence and are most often guided, as if for the safety of officials, only by the price criterion. We'd like to eliminate this paradigm. We think that our priority is to deliver the most functional system in the shortest possible time. If there is an institute in state resources that has the power to build such a system, we have no reason to look for another contractor, because today the State bears the cost of maintaining this institute, developing its potential. Few of this, this institute already has, we would say, part of the anti-Plagiarism system, because, as I said earlier, it is the host of a nationwide repository. If we wanted to commercialise this repository, it would mean that we would either have to make the repository an owner of another entity, that is, ordering universities to send and build a repository in some other university, in some other commercial entity, or we would have to build complex and cost-intensive IT instruments that would enable a large number of operators on the market to access this ORPD. It's purely illogical, it's impractical, it's illogical, it's nothing unreasonable. If there is an institute that can build an ORPD that can manage all data that is related to higher education and science, because the Information Processing Centre has and manages POL-on and OSF systems, i.e. systems that support funding streams of science, it has competence, knowledge, experience and what is most important, is proven. Believe it or not, it works. This is the part of computer science in Poland that works. So if it works, why not strengthen these competences and allow this institute to use a public contract or a public order? This is the reason why we would like to ask the High House to reject these two amendments, which only expose us to a long-term, costly and most likely completed failure of the tendering procedure which will not benefit either the State or the universities, or, most importantly, private entrepreneurs themselves, who are likely to protest for a long time and we will not have an anti-Plagiarism system. I don't know if I've answered all the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, if they wish, they will expect some additions, we are, of course, able to send them in writing. Once again, thank you very much for the debate. We share the opinion that yes, we want to fight plagiarism with anti-plagiarism systems. Thank you for the support of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System and we ask you to understand when it comes to selecting this single institute. At the end, of course, a philosophical note. You asked - it was also one of the threads - what will happen when this plagiarism will happen. So click, enter, and suddenly it turns out it's in red. I hope that the system will be functional and so simple that it can be done so quickly. Of course, the anti-Plagiarism system is a supporting instrument. The statement of plagiarism, or the result of the search in the anti-plagiarism, is not a decision. It's up to the promoter. And here is the absolute agreement, another agreement that connects us, that we cannot build an effective system that will support the honest behaviour of students, unless they are actively involved in this work promoters - I know something about it because I am a promoter myself and I know that it is not so easy and it costs a lot of time. The best anti-Plagiarism system is the promoter involved. But even an engaged promoter doesn't have a head in which he would have a whole base of 400,000. diploma work and 600 million fajli, which are collected on the Polish Internet, so he needs supporting instruments. The Single Anti-Plagiarism System is something that helps solve the problem, but which of itself will not solve the problem. As regards the comments that we should treat students fairly and fairly, i.e. If we're checking students, let's also check the academics - as a scientist I can answer that I am, of course, in favour, but this is not a technical issue that is related to this project. If you, ladies and gentlemen wish to make such changes, you may take such an initiative. This is a matter that is a matter for discussion. All I can say is that the Single Anti-Plagic System will have such potential to verify that it is also able to check these works. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u179	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, will now speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to thank you very warmly for all the votes that have been cast in today's debate for the questions. I am pleased that they have almost unambiguously confirmed that the proposed solution for the creation of the Single Anti-Plagic System is undoubtedly desirable and expected by Polish universities as an innovative tool, enabling the obligation to check written diploma work in the anti-Plagiar system in the form of free of charge, but also a tool guaranteeing - which was not previously - equality of access for all universities: small, large, public and non-public. I thank you for your work on the project in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. I also thank the parliamentary clubs for supporting the draft amendment to the Law on Higher Education concerning the creation of the Single Anti-Plagiarism System. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u181	Thank you very much. On this list, the list of people enrolled in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016 (print No 515). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartłomiej Grabski, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016 was drafted by the Council of Ministers due to the need to strengthen the security of NATO Summit participants and to preserve the appropriate security conditions after the end of this event. It is expected that the NATO Summit will be attended by Heads of State and Government from 28 countries, and there will be a significant number of accredited journalists as well as delegation participants. Due to the involvement of the Republic of Poland in international relations, given also the large possibilities of movement and geographical location and accessibility, Poland can be a convenient place to prepare and take actions aimed also at citizens and institutions of other countries. With a view to increasing the terrorist threat within the European Union, in order to ensure security during and immediately after the summit, the Council of Ministers proposed the following amendments to this law: Create a legal basis for the Government Protection Office to record during the NATO Summit, using technical means, image and sound events. Registered images or audio not containing evidence of the offence will be destroyed no later than 30 days after their registration. There will be protocol from the destruction. Creating the possibility of extending the service of police officers, ABW, State Fire Department, Border Guard, Government Protection Office and professional soldiers. The extension of service time is due to the need to ensure security for NATO participants and to ensure public order, which will require an increased number of uniformed officers on duty. In exchange for an extended period of service, it is assumed that officers and soldiers will be paid a flat-rate equivalent. Such regulation will help to maintain security at the end of the NATO Summit because, having received this equivalent, officers and soldiers will not use overtime free days. The ban on participation in spontaneous gatherings in Warsaw's capital city during the NATO summit, i.e. from the beginning of 7 July 2016 until 10 July 2016, only 4 days will therefore apply. The ban on attending these assemblies will only be an accident. This is intended to ensure an adequate level of security for the participants of the summit. Covering the implementation of public procurement tasks related to the organisation of the NATO Summit for the control of the Central Anti-corruption Office. In addition, it is proposed that the head of the CBA submit a report on this control by 30 September to the Sejm Committee on National Defence. This solution aims to strengthen the instruments to protect citizens' confidence in the integrity of state institutions organising the NATO Summit. In view of the solution proposed in the draft law, it should be assumed that the proposed regulation will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the security of the NATO Summit participants and to ensuring more effective public order during and after this event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u183	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u184	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have to admit, I'm in some trouble because in the previous point we talked about plagiarism. My speech will be a plagiarism of Minister Grabski's speech, because it is in the same spirit as regards the intentions and position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, whose opinion I have the honour to present to the High House, an opinion on the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016, print no. 515, so that everything is in accordance with the letter of the law. Mr. Marshal! NATO summit in Poland is coming up in great steps. This is an important, very important event for the North Atlantic Pact, and this summit is organised in Poland and is a very important event to strengthen the sense of security in Europe, but also in the world. This is particularly important for our country, because the situation in Ukraine and the renewed imperial drives of our eastern neighbour cause that for Poland it is an event of special rank. Unfortunately, the previous ruling team, POs and folks, in terms of organization, left behind, to put it mildly, all in a mess, also securing the summit itself and its participants. Let me remind you that the summit is to be attended by the Heads of State and Government of the 28 Member States. It is therefore necessary to take immediate action to ensure that this challenge, including the organisational challenge, is properly addressed, including in legislative terms. This special act, which is currently being debated by the High House, sets out five key points that will ensure the security of the summit participants from the legal side. Here I repeat what the Minister has already said about these points. The first point is to introduce provisions that will avoid paralysis in the services responsible for supervising the summit during and after the summit. The second point is to ban spontaneous gatherings in Warsaw during the NATO Summit. The third issue, the possibility of extending the service of police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard and the Government Security Office. The fourth point is to create a legal basis for extending the service time of professional soldiers. Finally, the fifth point is to cover the implementation of public procurement tasks relating to the organisation of the NATO Summit of Central Anti-corruption Offices, i.e. that this is all that should be. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are absolutely necessary to guarantee the safety of this event. I firmly believe that we are giving this law the opportunity to act properly to the services that bear the direct burden of the proper conduct of this summit. I think that in one sentence we can put forward this bill, that we just have no other choice and we just don't have time. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club supports the bill submitted and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Undoubtedly the NATO summit is a great success of Poland, it is a great success of President Komorowski, it is a great success of the previous government. The current government just has to make some arrangements. But here comes a problem and one basic question: does the PiS government really want to organize this summit or does it want it to be a total disaster? If we hear the statements of the PiS politicians that have appeared in the public debate in recent months, it seems that this latter option is definitely the first option. We hear the words of Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, who says that election in the United States, in the presidential election, is a choice between the plague and cholera. We hear that Mr Bill Clinton, former President of the United States, who ended his term with great support, should actually go to a doctor if he is criticizing what is happening in Poland at the moment. Finally, we hear from Minister Macierewicz, Minister of National Defence, that the United States is a young democracy and they will not instruct us. When one of the most important US senators from a completely different political option than Bill Clinton, or John McCain, tries to criticize what the PiS government is doing, we learn that there is not enough knowledge about what is happening in Poland. [[Because it's true.]] You also insult our allies from the west of Europe, even though these countries helped us to enter the European Union and NATO, just like Bill Clinton, who was then President of the United States. Some may think that this summit will run in a warm atmosphere after such speeches. We're wondering how many more words are gonna fall by July, because you guys are really just getting started. If it hadn't been for the previous government, you'd have had a total failure. The loss of image, which you are now funding, is undoubtedly impossible to do, because so few have never broken so much in our country in terms of the Polish international position. Today Poland is on everyone's lips, but no longer as a role model, not as a model of democratic change, but as a country of special need. Minister Macierewicz for his words from this stand should go before the Court of State, and I am not afraid to use those words. From this stand Minister Macierewicz was betraying the secrets of the Polish army, accusing his own army of inability, and then it turned out, in a strange way, that within a few weeks, or actually a few days, as we heard in his comments, he healed the Polish army. I'm going back to the bill itself. There is a very interesting record about the fact that there will be no spontaneous gatherings in Warsaw's capital city during the NATO summit. And here we must make it clear that we do not agree to restrict the freedom of assembly under any cloak. The responsibility of power, of this power, of the PiS government is to ensure the security of Poles, to safeguard security in every place of our country. The state cannot abdicate, as was the case in Bialystok, when it was necessary to send a letter to students from foreign countries that the police could not provide them with security. The PiS today wants to limit the right to assembly. One thing's for sure: we don't agree. I understand the various arguments that fall out of the Parliamentary Speaker, also in the case of this project, but it is really on the authority's side that responsibility lies in this matter. You can't have your staff carousel about not calling the chief of police to say no to assembly. [[It doesn't make sense.]] And what will you do during the youth days that are actually one great assembly? You're gonna stop spontaneous gatherings, too? Maybe you won't be able to pray, maybe you won't be able to perform Holy Mass? You guys are the security guys for these parties, but you're not here to stop people from seeing each other. Or is this an introduction to what you're planning in the future? Today hundreds of thousands of people march through the streets of Warsaw and other cities of Poland to show opposition to your power. Why don't you stop them from demonstrating, too? The rest of the records are technical, but just under such a technical coat you want to ban one of the fundamental freedoms which is in the Polish Constitution, which is freedom of assembly. We won't be able to do that. Thank you very much. [[Luckily, we don't need it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15, now has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the Act amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016, print No 515. Indeed, one might ask whether it is appropriate to thank the United States, NATO's main force, that they did not cancel this summit after Minister Macierewicz's words, because it is difficult to take seriously a partner who is supposedly completely disarmed and is not prepared for any threats, and terrorist threats are also threats, but these are details. The very fact that after 2 months there is an amendment to this law - let us remind you that this law saw the light of 16 March 2016 - shows that everything is not fully thought out and is attached to the last button, because it was possible to think about the things that are now included in this law 2 months earlier and put them in this main act. But it's a good thing, which is why I'm not going to hide that the Modern Club will support those actions that will lead to this summit being a success. Just as we want the World Youth Day to be a success, so we will support those actions that will actually ensure, especially to Polish citizens, but also to our guests, security at this summit, and we all know that the terrorist threat is increasing in Europe. As regards the provisions of this law, there was indeed a mention here of a provision which restricts the possibility of assembly, and I would argue here, because the law contains the term "spontaneous." Here, indeed, there is a difference between assemblies that are organized according to law, or are reported to be permitted to hold such assemblies, and spontaneous assemblies that can sometimes get out of control. [[They're legal, too.]] I have only a request and an appeal to the government not to treat conventions that wish to express their opposition to the government's actions as spontaneous assemblies. I assume that's not the intention of the government... [[It's in the bill.]] ...which presents these solutions. On the other hand, the thing that seems to have actually escaped is that the Office of Government Protection can also use certain operational techniques to film and track possible events that may occur at this summit. It is good that there is a record that obliges the Office of Government Protection to destroy this material, which is completely not useful in operational activities and will not be the marks of the crime. It's a good thing it's a record. I also think it is a good thing that those who will be involved, who will spend their time beyond the scope of their work, will be well rewarded for this work, and therefore this matter related to the remuneration of both the services and those involved in the protection, but also the handling of this summit, has been dealt with properly. Therefore, this does not raise any doubts either. One last thing. The same thing happened with a specialty concerning the organization of World Youth Days. This law exempts entities that will prepare these events from the rigors of the Public Procurement Act. This is necessary and here we have no doubt that in order to carry this out efficiently, and to the summit there is little time left, indeed these entities must be exempted from the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, otherwise nothing could be properly arranged for a good cause. To sum up, we will not seek evil will in this submission and the Modern Club will be in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u189	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the growing terrorist threat in the world, it is necessary to strengthen security during and immediately after the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in Warsaw. To this end, the speciality prepared for the NATO summit on 8 and 9 July this year, which was adopted by the government on 8 March this year, was revised. The Act has been in force since 23 March 2016 and provides that contracts for goods, services and works related to the organisation of the NATO Summit will be excluded from the Public Procurement Law. According to the draft amendment during the NATO Summit, officials of the Government Protection Office will have the right to record images and sound during the events related to this summit. The recorded material not containing evidence of the offence shall be destroyed no later than 30 days after the date of registration. A protocol for the destruction procedure will be drawn up. In addition, during the NATO Summit in Warsaw, participation in spontaneous assemblies will be prohibited. In view of the importance of the NATO Summit and the need to ensure the highest level of security for its participants, it will be possible to extend the time of service to police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard and the Government Security Office. The project also provides for the possibility of extending the service of professional soldiers. According to the project, a flat-rate cash equivalent will be paid to officers and soldiers for overtime. This solution is intended to prevent group picking up of days off in overtime, which could weaken staff services and, as a result, adversely affect the safety of citizens. The draft amendment also states that the Central Anti-corruption Office will control orders related to the organisation of the NATO Summit in Warsaw. The Polish People's Party firmly believes that the provisions of this bill will in no way restrict citizens' freedom. At the same time, we want the organisation of the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days in Poland in a safe, correct and worthy way. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u191	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members have signed up for the question. I am closing the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Gosiewiski of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u192	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Any strengthening of the security of the NATO Summit as well as the World Youth Days is a very good solution. This bill amends the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Summit in the Republic of Poland in Warsaw in 2016. Art. 1a 1 A new wording is appropriate, according to which recorded images and sounds not containing evidence of the offence are destroyed no later than 30 days after the date of registration, etc. Minister, in order not to remove any evidence too soon, I would like to ask you two questions. Who will decide to destroy images and sounds? Who will state that a given picture [[♪ The bell ♪]] or doesn't the sound contain concrete evidence of a crime or offence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Regarding the speech of the representative of the Civic Platform: Mr, you know very well, because we are both members of the Parliament's Committee on National Defence, that various schemes, different ways of acting are presented to us at secret meetings, and what the state of the Polish army looks like at the moment. You know perfectly well, as I do, that we cannot say more from this speaker how terrible it looks after your governments. Therefore, a little respect for what Minister Macierewicz said, because you know perfectly well that he is right. Ladies and gentlemen! As for this situation, as regards the limitation of freedoms: Again, you know that this is a temporary act. If something doesn't happen to God, then who will you blame? You have to think for you about what you've done, what a mess you've been through. In order to end the matter with a question, I ask, Minister: Do you still maintain that these five points we have discussed here, which are absolutely necessary, should continue to be introduced, so that what the Civic Platform represents, is not just idle talk, but to make arguments if they cannot understand such simple things? Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u195	Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Tomczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! First of all, Minister Macierewicz from this speaker, I think, said much stronger things than when we were at the so-called. A secret meeting of the National Defence Committee. [[Secret.]] In addition, from this speaker there were words that discredited the Polish army. [[They were real.]] And I'll say it again, he should have said it... If you wouldn't mind interrupting me... [[I'm allergic to lying.]] I will repeat this once again, for these words Antoni Macierewicz should face the Court of State. As far as the temporary restriction of freedom is concerned, you admit it - you want to temporarily restrict civil liberties in the form of... [[First of all, we want to secure it.]] ...freedom of assembly. And it's in your bill, it's in your bill. So far, huge events have been organized in Poland, such as Euro 2012, such as climate summits, and every time various organizations... [[You really don't get it?]] ...the non-governmental protested in Warsaw. I can't imagine a situation when in the capital city of Warsaw... [[Things are changing, don't you see?]] ...freedom of assembly will be forbidden, because this is an introduction to what you want to do. In your counter-terrorism bill, it's repeated...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u198	...exactly, and the Home Minister is giving even further powers. There's no way... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] [[It doesn't have to be your permission.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u199	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk from the Kukiz club15 with a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We will have the opportunity to host the North Atlantic Pact summit in Poland. On this occasion, the issue of support for American troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland or the missile shield will be discussed. However, our allies can also help us in a less demanding way. It is planned to create territorial defence troops. Such units in today's theatre of war activities without special equipment would be decimated instantly. And yet our allies can help us by handing the equipment over to them, for example. drones that allow us to identify the area from a significant distance, or armored transporters. To this day, the military uses the age-old BWP-1. I hope that there will be no idea of transferring these transporters to territorial defence and the latest equipment will go to both the army and the territorial defence forces. Are you going to ask for support in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u201	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Minister Bartłomiej Grabski, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that ladies and gentlemen see the need for the proposed amendment of the law and the amendments that we believe are necessary to ensure an adequate level of security for the NATO Summit. As regards the registration of recording records of images and sound which do not contain evidence of the offence, which will be destroyed 30 days after their registration, the Office for Government Protection will certainly have such grounds in respect of legal bases, but I also think that other relevant services will have to do so. With regard to the amendments proposed in the amendment to the Act, their implementation is definitely necessary. Thank you very much for your comments on the organisation of the NATO Summit, but I will allow myself to disagree with them. The findings may have been, but as far as the organisation of the summit is concerned, almost nothing has been done for the previous government. As far as the issue of the organisation of assemblies is concerned, as I said at the outset, this applies only to four days when the summit will be held, from 7 to 10 July 2016. This event will only be an episode. It will certainly not be aimed at restricting civil liberties. As far as the other issues are concerned, we will try to answer your questions in detail in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u203	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit in the Republic of Poland in 2016 to the National Defence Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Senate draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits (prints No 370 and No 499). I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill which the Senate presented to the High House is the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 November 2014 published in the Official Journal of 26 November 2014. It concerns the amendment of two laws: the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits, print No 370. The Constitutional Tribunal found it inappropriate to refuse the right to provide care to a disabled child's parent who resigns from employment or other work in connection with the need to take care of the child in a situation where the other parent has a fixed right to provide care for another disabled child in the family. The Constitutional Tribunal considered that such proceedings were incompatible with the Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 sentence 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The proposal proposed by the High House to amend these laws removes this disadvantage. Two amendments were adopted by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on this project. The first one introduces a transitional provision whereby procedures for determining the parent's right to care services not completed before the date of entry into force of that law will be decided under the amended law, provided that the High Chamber so decides. The second amendment amends the date of entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2017. The Act has a financial impact of about PLN 30 million, hence it would be difficult to implement it in the current year because this amount was not provided for in the Budget Act. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy invites the High House to adopt the bill presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u205	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Senate draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law establishing and paying benefits for carers, prints no. 370 and 499. The project removes some grossly unfair provisions of the Family Benefits Act. This law allowed the principle to apply for years: one family benefit per family. It is difficult to say what led the legislator to extend the article in September 2005. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Act on Family Benefits of Point 4. As a result, a family with more than one disabled child was deprived of proportional care. There is no doubt that the situation of these families is much more difficult than that of families with one disabled child. Such a decision shall be contrary to Article. 71 The basic law, which refers to the specific assistance provided by the State to families in financial and social difficulties. The previous authority has not made the necessary changes to the law. Perhaps she was too busy with other things, e.g. organizing an office for PLN 1 million. For more examples, see the recent audit. Even the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 November 2014 did not induce the previous authority to change the bad law so that the situation of families with more than one disabled child would actually improve. True, the tribunal has repealed the unfair provision, but there are still rules to apply the principle: one family benefit per child. It's time to change that. It is time to restore the confidence of the weakest families in the country, and this is what the proposed Senate bill is going to do. For a long time, families of disabled people have been waiting for fair treatment. At present, it is an obstacle to granting a care allowance both to establish the right to an allowance to a family allowance or to a care allowance and to grant a special care allowance or a care allowance provided for in the Law of 4 April 2014 on the establishment and payment of care benefits. In accordance with the Article. 16a. 8 point 4 of the Family Benefits Act shall not be entitled to a special care allowance if the family member of the caretaker is entitled to an allowance to the family allowance referred to in Article. 10 the Act of 4 April 2014 on the establishment and payment of welfare benefits. Given the Court's judgment and the existence of conflicting provisions, it can be noted that this may lead to inconsistencies in law enforcement. It is therefore also proposed to put in place a clear provision to resolve this issue. After considering the proposed law, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the above-mentioned draft law on family benefits and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u207	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Bożena Henczyc will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present our position on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying benefits for carers, printers 370 and 499. The proposed law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law establishing and paying welfare benefits is intended to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 November 2014 declaring the non-compliance of the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 5 (4) of the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits in force until 13 October 2011. The judgment is published in the Journal of Laws item. 1652. The Court held that this Article, as it stood until 13 October 2011, in so far as it precludes the granting of a right to provide care to a parent who resigns from employment or other employment in connection with the need to take care of a disabled child, where the second parent has a fixed right to provide care for another child in the family, is incompatible with Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1nd sentence of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to art. 17, as examined by the Constitutional Tribunal, did not benefit from care if a person in the family had a fixed right to an allowance to the family allowance. According to that article, as examined by the Constitutional Tribunal, care was not granted if a family member had a fixed right to the allowance referred to in Article. 10 laws, either to provide care for this or for another child in the family. This provision expressed one of the negative reasons for obtaining State financial support in the event of resignation from employment or other employment or in the absence of professional activity due to the exercise of custody of a person legitimizing a disability decision, including indications of the need for permanent or long-term care or assistance of another person in connection with a significantly limited possibility of self-existence and the need for permanent participation of the child's guardian in the process of treatment, rehabilitation and education, or of a person legitimizing a judgment of a significant degree of disability on a daily basis. The most important result of the entry into force of the proposed law will be the alignment of the legal situation with the indications of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and thus the fulfilment of the standard derived from the Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Second sentence of the Constitution. Our position, the position of the Civic Platform, is that we are in favour of the changes in this area, but we cannot agree with the fact that the Act would only enter into force from January 2017. The Civic Platform Club believes that this change should apply from 1 July 2017, because the financial consequences for the State do not exceed the budget possibilities to any extent. It is estimated that this amount will be less than 30 million per year, so it is really about 15 million per year. Since the government was able to find many millions for medical chambers and 27 million for Rydzyk's father, we believe that this 15 million should be found without a problem, even from the budget reserve. [[Why didn't you admit it last year?]] The Civic Platform Club therefore submits this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You could've said it last year.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Agnieszka will now speak in the name of the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in the case of the Senate draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law establishing and paying welfare benefits prepared in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 November 2014, prints No 370 and No 499. This sentence was one and a half years old, and he finally had the procession. Of course, Kukiz15 does not intend to prolong this procedure for a moment, and will support it in its entirety. It seems obvious that families with more than one disabled child bear double costs, bear a double burden of care and are entitled to full benefit. Of course, this is one of the small elements of changing the whole support system for families looking after people with disabilities. For example, a further judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has been pending for 1.5 years, which has ruled that it is also incompatible with the Constitution to differentiate the right to receive care for persons who take care of persons with disabilities. Such a witness may be given to persons who care for persons with disabilities from birth, but no longer to persons who have lost their ability to function independently after 18 years of age. You can ask yourself this question: How long will these people wait for their money? Does it have to be that we deal with audits, party pushes, positions, and people with disabilities are sentenced to life in poverty? These are actually the real problems of Poles, and this should be a priority of the authority, which should take care of these issues as soon as they take over the government. That's what we should be talking about in the media, in the debates, in the marches. quite recently, parents of disabled children were marching for their rights for many years. Actually, there's one right, the right to a decent life. Often in these homes there is no money for bread, for life, for medicine. And this time, as for many years, they got the promise of another band, another conversation. Shouldn't it be that they should get the package ready, first, the laws that will change their situation, and secondly, the laws that implement the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case? Will they have to go begging at the Seym Chancellery again every time? If the government has a patent for all solutions, it very often knows for citizens what to do, what to do, it often ignores the opinion of others, then in this case must it ask once again the parents of people with disabilities, what do they need? They've been talking about it for years. They need funding for care provided by a family member, they do hard work, very hard work, actually 24 hours a day. They shouldn't have such a low salary, you might say. Where is the logic that the state, e.g. he can finance $3.5,000. zł social services house, and 1.7 thousand. give a person who's always taking care of a disabled person? It is about access to rehabilitation, treatment, access to equipment, orthopedic supplies or the removal of architectural barriers. The policy towards people with disabilities is very chaotic, we do not have a uniform system for determining the degree of disability. We have many institutions, such as PFRON, ZUS, NFZ, which unfortunately take a commission every time. This money could go directly to homes and families. Dear Party! Your audits, your reports should start with what you've done and what you should do. We are a solidarity society: we are willing to pay our taxes to help people with disabilities, because it is worth giving money to do so. We want to increase the childhood and the incentive system, which is 500+, we spend huge amounts. Or maybe you could think about what the motivation for a future mother is, for example. That she's watching a neighbor who takes care of a disabled kid? Is it by chance more depressing than 500+ is motivating, it is not what problems She struggles, what situation does she live in? Of course, Kukiz15 will support the bill, but will also submit a project, and will submit another one to help families, people with disabilities. Since the government doesn't have time to deal with this, we're hoping that although it won't interfere with the substantive opposition of our club, it'll support it for the good of people who really long and probably wait too patiently for their laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u211	Thank you very much. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska will now speak on behalf of the club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, it is my pleasure to refer to the draft law on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits, which aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 18 November 2014. I was just at a meeting of the team on the issues of independent, parliamentary - senate, parliamentary - team. We've been talking a lot about this on this team. There were environments of disabled people with us, the environment of carers we are talking about today, we are talking about. I am extremely grateful to both Senator Augustine and Senator Duda, who have been dealing with the subject of people with disabilities for years, for admitting and apologizing that the 2012 Act, which introduced the division as regards carers of adults and children with disabilities, was a mistake. The senator apologized, bowed his head and said, "I'm sorry, it was a human error, not a legislative error. I hope that we have acknowledged human error and that we are able to correct legislation. I also thank you, Madam President, for mentioning the whole situation of the environment of people with disabilities, because the project we are talking about is very important, although it is one small drop in the sea of the needs of people with disabilities. There's a whole list of needs that we need to discuss and to which we need to address. These are the needs that Minister Radziszewska has repeatedly referred to, which Minister Marczuk referred to, to both Mr Duda and Mr Kaczyński. I hope that this will be understood in the environment of Law and Justice, because I know very well that there are people in this environment who have people with disabilities in their families and who know this problem, who know how difficult this situation is. Let us remember that the problems of people with disabilities are problems that should be beyond political divisions. We should really lean on this, because life for 520 PLN is not life. We are talking about one case where we have a situation of double misery in the family - two children with disabilities - the need for both parents to give up their jobs and the need for financial support. This is 300 PLN per family for a child and still 520 PLN per family for an adult disabled person. You can't live for that. Besides, it's just one little problem. What if people with disabilities leave? It happens very often. Families, carers of these people are often left alone. They are doomed to be alone because they are addicted to the illness of the person they cared for. They get depressed many times, and suicides have already been reported. These people aren't doing well. From day to day they remain alone, they remain without any financial support, because they lose even those lousy 520 zlotys. They don't have support, they don't have any benefits, even those for the unemployed, because you have to register first and months go by before they get any benefits for survival. It's here, as I mentioned, a whole list of problems, including.: Who can take care of a disabled person? Or just a family member? What if a person doesn't have a family? What if parents leave and the disabled child is left alone? What if we have an aunt, an uncle, a very devoted neighbor who can take care of this person out of the goodness of his heart, out of need, and not get any help from the state, no benefits? These are really things that are to be done. We're preparing another bill. I'm in constant contact with the environment of people with disabilities. I very much regret that the present debate... The interministerial team does not want help and does not want support for the parliamentary environment. Here are people who have spent a lot of time on this subject, know the environment, know the problems, and would like to join the work of this team. I personally received an answer that, because it is an inter-ministerial government team, Members are not allowed to speak there. I'm very sorry about that. I hope that this will change and we can work together on these topics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Modern, of course, will support the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u214	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Senate committee on the bill amending the Law on Family Benefits and the Law on the fixing and payment of welfare benefits, no. 370 and no. 499. Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to disagree with the purpose of the proposed law. The Family Benefits Act has already been amended several times. This time the amendment is intended to eliminate the principle that in one family only one welfare benefit can be granted. The person receiving the care allowance will not lose it if another member of the family receives a care allowance. However, this will not apply to a special welfare allowance. The Senate project, which we are talking about, will allow for example. Both parents receive care, each for another child. Adults with disabilities will benefit from the change. When one parent takes care of a disabled child, the other may take care of an infirm parent and if the income conditions are met, they will both receive support from the State. The proposed amendment to the Act is in line with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of October 2014. He then felt that the principle that a family with more than one disabled child could receive only one care provision violates the principle of social justice. The disability of several children makes both parents have to give up their jobs in order to cope with their responsibilities. So no parent should be deprived of caring just because one has already received it. This is what the Constitutional Court has said and has ordered a revision of the rules. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this context, it is difficult not to address the issue of the Constitutional Tribunal. Today, in a situation where we have a crisis related to the functioning of this institution, and many people in Poland treat it as pure abstraction, this example of the act shows how useful the Constitutional Tribunal is for Poles and an important institution. Therefore, from this point of view, I call once again on the representatives of the PiS to meet social expectations, to end the crisis, to publish judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Voice from the hall: O Jesus.]] ...and they've been working on a consensual bill that will end the tribunal's paralysis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u215	Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. She will be the first to speak and ask the question of Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This draft law amending the Law on Family Benefits and establishing and paying welfare benefits, introducing the solution resulting from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal into the system of law, raises no doubt. In this example, it is clear how important the Constitutional Tribunal has a role to play in the rule of law. On the other hand, doubts arise as to the date of entry into force of this law. Why does the parliamentary majority want to extend the 14-day deadline proposed by the Senate until 1 January 2017? The argument of Members of the Law and Justice justifying this proposal is contrary to the proposed extension of the date of entry into force of the Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u217	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Skok from the club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u218	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is very good that we are finally dealing with the elimination of this injustice, which objectively struck families with particularly demanding support, with more children with disabilities than one. I therefore have a question, because this was the situation that I was dealing with in practice, there was an intervention in this matter to my parliamentary office: What about the situation of a single parent raising two children with disabilities? I had the opportunity to learn about the situation of a father who raises two children with disabilities. The nature of this benefit is that it is designed to offset the cost of not working, while objectively judging, a single person raising two disabled children is worse off than two parents raising two disabled children. Should such a situation also be taken into account in the future, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to provide additional support to such individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u219	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Would the Minister like to speak? You have the floor of Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to put forward a position on the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act. This is not the official position of the Council of Ministers, work is underway, consultations are underway to develop such a position, but it is a positive position, it is a positive opinion on this project. It is a project that, you can say, pursues two goals. First, it implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 14 November 2014, the judgment which formally referred to only one provision of the Law on Family Benefits, i.e. Article 2 Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 5 (4), but referring to the provision in force on 13 October 2011. This was the consequence of a constitutional complaint lodged by one of the citizens. At a later date, the legal situation changed. An article appeared in the Family Benefits Act. 16a. Point 8 (4) which contains a twin condition excluding the right to a special welfare allowance. The law on the establishment and payment of guardian benefits, which refers to the provisions challenged by the Court of Justice, has also appeared in the legal order. 17 Family Benefits Act. So that the second objective of this project is actually to bring the existing rules into line with the legal order as amended by the Constitutional Court's ruling - I would say. As far as the financial consequences of this project are concerned, according to estimates by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, the implementation of this project may have a financial impact of PLN 30 million. And that is also the answer to the question about the date of entry into force of this law. In the 2016 budget, the appropriations for this purpose have not been secured, guaranteed, and we therefore request that the date of entry into force of the provisions of this Law be indicated in the Act on 1 January 2017. In conclusion, I would like to say that the position of the Council of Ministers is, of course, a positive position, but we propose that this law should enter into force on 1 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u221	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? [[Yes.]] Yes. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to answer three questions, the issues that have been raised here. The first is a matter of date. In my opinion, it would be best if this law entered into force on 1 January 2015. [[Applause]] After all, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was delivered in 2014 and the defective act, defective in this respect, was adopted in 2011. So, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, at the moment, the comments of those who had the opportunity to take action earlier, effective actions earlier, the comments on speeding up the entry into force of this law are not very valid, especially since the draft budget prepared last year did not provide for this amount either, and therefore did not assume that such a law would enter into force at all. That's one thing. The second is to consult with the environments associated with people with disabilities. It is precisely this year that the postulate of the sections of disabled persons and the sections of blind persons NSZZ.Solidarity has been implemented for years, actually more than twenty years, so that people with disabilities are not only concerned at the level of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, but to deal with them at government level, because the problems of people with disabilities occur in all areas of life. This is a matter of both building and education and health and employment. Therefore, I hope that at the moment this issue - a way of dealing with the problems of people with disabilities - will be implemented differently, better, taking greater account of the situation of these people. And the third point... I'm sorry, someone else was asking a question... aha, about the parents when it comes to this benefit. Unfortunately, these laws that we are amending concern benefits or allowances for those who are actually caring for children. It is clear that the situation of a person who is the sole guardian of a family with several disabled children is more difficult, but I think we should address this issue more systematically by considering the situation of families with people with disabilities. And one appeal. This may not be too much of a misdemeanor if I ask you not to oppose the interests and problems of families and families with disabled children. I think we should both take care of each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u223	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services (prints Nos 408 and 500). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u224	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! I present to the High House a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the work on the government draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, print No 408, which aims to implement European Union law. The draft of this law entered the Sejm on 1 April this year. At its first reading at the 17th meeting of the Sejm on 28 April, the High Chamber addressed it to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. May 11th this year During the work, the committee accepted both the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and legislative amendments of an editorial nature. Among other things, in the article. 3 the term "working day' is added in Article. Paragraph 7 1 is replaced by the word "executor," in Article. 37 words from the entrusted entity were replaced by the words from the entrusted contractor in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 words 7 days have been replaced by "10 days" and the information requested by the State Labour Inspection has been extended in Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) and the word "address' has been replaced by the words "employer of the posting of a worker from the territory of the Republic of Poland' and "Article'. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 specifies that the transfer of the application for the execution of an administrative penalty or administrative fine to the head of the tax office may not take place earlier than 30 days after the service of the employer to the posting of a staff member from the territory of the Republic of Poland. The introduction of this regulation is justified because the employer may voluntarily pay the amount in question upon receipt of notification from the State Labour Inspection of the application for enforcement of the penalty or fine. In such a case, it would be pointless to initiate enforcement proceedings, which would then have to be terminated, and would have been unnecessary to bear the costs involved. Leaving the employer's obligation 30 days for voluntary payment of charges seems to be a sufficient period. On expiry of that period, it may be assumed that there will be no voluntary settlement of duties, and enforcement proceedings are therefore necessary, which are intended to transfer the application to the head of the tax office. The current text of the article. 27 shall be indicated as the mouth. 1 and paragraph 1 is added. 2 as follows: The same penalty shall apply to an employer posting an employee to the territory of the Republic of Poland or to a person acting on his behalf if the State Labour Inspection finds that the worker concerned cannot be regarded as a posted worker within the territory of the Republic of Poland. Recital 11 of the Implementation Directive shows that Member States should ensure that provisions are in place to protect workers who are not actually posted in a sufficient way. Although the recitals of the directive are not normative and serve merely to interpret its provisions, it is appropriate to introduce a standard in the proposed law which will indirectly protect workers who are not actually posted. The threat of fines for employers' actions to de facto reduce the costs of their employees' work in the territory of another Member State should be preventive to those employers and should prevent their use of posting institutions. Art. 30 is replaced by the following: In the Law of 17 November 1964, the Civil Procedure Code in Article. 1103 § 2 is replaced by the following: Cases from an employee's claim concerning the provision of conditions of employment in accordance with the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services belong also to the national jurisdiction where the employee is either posted to work in the territory of the Republic of Poland by an employer established in a Member State of the European Union. The consequence of this amendment is the amendment in Article. Thirty-six proposed law. The amendment seeks to waive the possibility proposed in the proposed act of bringing labour inspectors to the labour courts to determine what law is applicable to the relationship between the worker and his employer if the inspector finds that such a worker cannot be regarded as a posted worker. This provision is proposed to be abandoned because there would be serious doubts in the interpretation and application of this provision by labour courts. The Supreme Court drew attention to the above in its opinion to the proposed law. Art. 33 - is another amendment - is replaced by the following: The Law of 26 June 1974. The Labour Code is amended as follows: Link No 1 repeals point 19 and Chapter IIa of Chapter 2 is repealed. Since the proposed law introduces an amendment to the Labour Code consisting in repealing in Section 2 of that Chapter IIa Code concerning the conditions of employment of workers assigned to work in the territory of the Republic of Poland from a Member State of the European Union, it is also necessary to repeal in reference No 1 to the Labour Code point 19. It concerns Directive 96/71/EC of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. After the article. 33 it is decided to add Article. 33a as follows: The Law of 21 November 1996 on museums is amended as follows: 30 The following Article shall be inserted: 30a as follows: access to information to ensure the safety of museums on grounds of fire risk protection, theft and other risks that threaten destruction or loss of harvests shall be restricted, and Chapter 4 shall be repealed. 31a. In the explanatory memorandum in the section on Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Law of 25 February 2016 on the re-use of public sector information, which was added after Article. 31 The Museums Act stated that due to the earlier amendment of the Museums Act after the entry into force of the Law on the Re-Use of Public Sector Information, it would have two additional articles, marked as an article. 31a. After the article. 35 The following Article is inserted: 35a as follows: In the Law of 2 July 2004 on freedom of business in Article. 39 (1) (a) 3 is replaced by the following: To the extent not regulated in paragraph: 1 and 2 for the re-use of CEIDG data, the provisions of the Law of 25 February 2016 on the re-use of public sector information shall apply. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the High House that this law aims to implement in the Polish legal order Directive 2014/67/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, amending Regulation No 1024/2012 of the Union. According to Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of that Directive, Member States are required by 18 June 2016 to adopt laws, regulations and administrative provisions to comply with it. The Social Policy and Family Committee has adopted a draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, print No 408, 15 votes in favour with 10 abstentions and no votes against, and recommends that the High House adopt it in accordance with print No 500. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u225	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in print No 500 on the Government's draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, print No 408. The text of the draft law contained in the committee's report contains the amendments adopted by the committee at its meeting on 11 May this year. They aim to improve the proposed solutions, to make them clearer and to fully reflect the provisions of the Basic and Implementation Directive, which concern the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. All amendments deserve to be included in the text of this law. The amendments made to the Article should be considered as particularly important. 3, 7, 12, 18, 27 and 31 of the proposed law. And yes, art. 3 of the project was supplemented by the definition of the working day concept. This will be every calendar day except for Saturdays and days off from work as defined in the Vacation Day Act. This amendment will ensure a uniform understanding of all the time limits laid down in working days without the need to feed on the interpretation of that concept by the provisions contained in other laws, which could give rise to interpretation difficulties and uncertainty in the application of the rules. Art. 7 a project on joint and several liability for certain obligations towards posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland doing work in the construction sector was improved in such a way that it fully corresponds to the provisions of the Implementation Directive on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. It is the sole responsibility of the contractor entrusting the execution of certain works and the employer posting workers to the territory of the Republic of Poland to carry out such work. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 12th draft harmonised the time limits for all entities obliged to the State Labour Inspection to provide, at its request, the information needed to be submitted in response to a request from the competent authority of another Member State. Thus, the employer's requests for unjustified differentiation of deadlines for employers, entrepreneurs and other entities, including the Social Insurance Institution, have been taken into account. All entities required to provide information to the State Labour Inspection will do so within the same time limit, i.e. within 10 working days of receipt of the application. Art. 18 of this project was supplemented by a regulation concerning the date of transmission of the application for the execution of an administrative penalty or administrative fine by the State Labour Inspection to the head of the tax office - no earlier than 30 days after the date of service of the employer to the posting of a worker from the territory of the Republic of Poland. The amendment is important, as in fact the employer is left to the posting of a worker from the territory of the Republic of Poland the time for voluntary payment of duties. Without this amendment, a request for enforcement could in practice be sent to the head of the tax office after voluntary payment by the employer, which would unnecessarily generate costs both on the part of the State Labour Inspection and on the part of the enforcement authority. Art. 27 projects concerning criminal liability for non-compliance with certain provisions of the Act have been supplemented by the possibility of imposing a fine on the employer of the posting of a worker on the territory of the Republic of Poland or on a person acting on his behalf if the State Labour Inspection finds that the worker concerned cannot be regarded as a posted worker on the territory of the Republic of Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 31 concerning amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure as a result of reservations by the first President of the Supreme Court, the power to bring an action for the determination of the law applicable to the employment relationship between the worker and the employer has been waived if it is established that the worker concerned cannot be regarded as a posted worker. Amendments to the other provisions of the draft law are either a consequence of the above amendments or are of a legislative or linguistic nature. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the adoption of the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services in print No 500. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u227	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Izabela Katarzyna will now speak Mrzygłocka on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The committee's report is in print No 500 and the government project is in print No 408. Today we are discussing provisions that will give us better access to information related to employment conditions in a Member State of the European Union. Workers posted abroad will be better protected, while the performance of control functions by state institutions will be facilitated. During my first reading of the project, I drew attention to a number of problems related to the government's proposed records. The first one concerned binding deadlines for employers who would be required to submit employee records at the request of the State Labour Inspection. Our parliamentary club has been proposing to extend this term from 7 to 14 days from the beginning, because we believe that the law, which is our duty as a member of the European Union, and which is very necessary at the same time, as it regulates many unclear issues relating to the posting of workers to work abroad, should not hinder the pursuit of business. During the work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, it was possible to change the negative wording, specifying that the deadline applies to working days and, at the same time, extending it from 7 to 10 days. Another thing I've been paying attention to is increasing the number of job inspectors. As a long-standing chairman of the Labour Protection Council, I have received many signals of worrying situations when cooperation between the inspection and the prosecution failed in the event of serious crimes against the health and life of workers. One argument to clarify this was staff problems in the State Labour Inspection. We would not want the increased number of inspectors' duties to result in their failure to prosecute people who violate fundamental labour rights. During the process of this project in committee, I was assured by Minister Stanisław Swed that the labour inspection should deal with new responsibilities within the budget received. As it will be in practice, we will find out in a few months, which is why this case should be monitored on an ongoing basis. Finally, I would like to mention one of the important provisions in this report. At a committee meeting, the government party tabled an amendment which would allow the State Labour Inspection to determine whether the worker was or was not posted by a foreign employer. Members of the Civic Platform, but also the employer's representative, have expressed their doubts about this provision, because it means some discretion in the application of the law, and this usually leads to problems of interpretation, which are usually the victims of which the employer is the victim. We still think it's at the end of the article. The 27th draft law should be discussed and perhaps clarified. High Izbo! Apart from the comments made by the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has no objections to this report, recognising the fundamental meaning of the new rules as a positive change for the Polish and European labour market. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki now has the floor on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club I have the honour - this is a great honour - to present a position on the government proposal for the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. The proposed law aims to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. The previous regulations were in Section 2 of Chapter IIa of the Labour Code: Conditions of employment of workers assigned to work in the territory of the Republic of Poland from a Member State of the European Union, as well as in the Act on State Labour Inspection. Directive 96/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council, known as the Basic Directive, regulates situations where workers have been temporarily posted by their employer to another Member State in the framework of services provided in the State. According to Art. Directive 2014/67 requires Member States to adopt, by 18 June 2016, the laws and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, this directive, the implementation of which is to be ensured by this draft law, is primarily aimed at ensuring compliance with an adequate level of protection of the rights of posted workers in order to provide services across borders. This includes, in particular, the enforcement of minimum employment conditions applicable in the Member State where the service is to be provided, while facilitating the exercise of the freedom to provide services by service providers and promoting fair competition between service providers and thereby supporting the functioning of the internal market. Since the proposed law consequently implies both the inclusion in a single legal act of the provisions implementing the Basic Directive and the transfer of them from the laws in force and the establishment of new regulations implementing Directive 2014/67, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 raises no objections to the proposed project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u231	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the bill aimed at improving the protection of workers is only criticised by employers' organisations, it can be said that there is a balance in nature. However, if criticism is accompanied by the State Labour Inspection, and lawyers are multiplying the interpretation doubts that can impact on workers' rights, then we should start worrying. There is no doubt and there can be no doubt that Poland will implement into its legal system the objectives of Directive 2014/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe - pacta sunt servanda - but we must, as a matter of urgency, bend over a number of problems which have not been taken into account during the work of the committee, as the law adopted in such a form will be another legal buffet. However, we hope that the implementing rules will clarify these issues. Since the beginning of the draft law, numerous reservations have been raised about the text of the law and some of these issues still need to be properly regulated. They concerned and still concern, among others. problems in defining the terms of temporary referral, posted worker and posting employer, and the problem of joint and several liability, which has been defined in detail for a narrow category of work, while not ensuring this protection to other workers. Modernly, such protection should cover all workers. The proposed law will have negative consequences for Polish employers providing services on the European Union market and their employees, because the draft law does not safeguard the interests of Polish companies posting workers to work abroad from the situations of imposing and enforcing penalties or fines on them, and these penalties are primarily disproportionate and discriminatory. At the same time, too many obligations are imposed on employers, including disproportionate to the fines. Despite taking into account the comments of employers' organisations, there are still too short deadlines for replying to PIP applications, although, as my predecessors suggested here, extending the deadline to 10 days is already much better than the 7 days proposed in its original form. However, we still believe that the concepts I mentioned earlier should be clarified. The law regulates the posting of workers to the territory of the Republic of Poland, while Polish companies posting workers abroad fear this directive because of the increase in costs, e.g. a typical company employing and sending nannies to Germany employs them for a contract order, and the subject matter of the order is defined so that part of the work is carried out in Poland. The reason for this is that from such contracts the contribution is paid to the Polish and not to the German ZUS, because the contribution paid to this German is much higher. The issue of regulating this scope, these reservations, is very important because it is our employees who are most vulnerable to abuse. This is not only due to their quantity, it should be remembered that a significant proportion of the workers posted to provide services abroad use temporary employment agencies, and in their case there is really something to fight for. For them, ensuring conditions that are no worse than those recognised as a fair minimum on the host market may determine the economic viability of the entire trip. In extreme cases for them and for their families it can be an existential issue. According to the Provincial practice, the group of posted workers consists mainly of middle-level workers and management staff. It is clear that most of these problems do not concern them at all, so it is important to be aware of the objectives pursued by individual countries when concluding a compromise on Directive 2014/67 and in the design of the Directive itself as an act of secondary law of the European Union. The directive points to the desired state of affairs and, although the modern one agrees with the general direction of the directive, we are looking for answers to the question whether a project which raises so many doubts can ensure that these objectives are effectively achieved. Let us remember that developed Western economies protect their markets in this directive. We want to protect our citizens. We must not allow the status quo to be maintained, nor must we tolerate permanent multiannual delegations and the actual inability to claim workers' claims, particularly when they return to their home country. We cannot agree to the helplessness of state authorities towards foreign employers who do not comply with regulations. We need to translate this political compromise into the language of the law in order to ensure that posted workers are protected and that employers do not put more than a reasonable and necessary measure. Any legislative error will result in proceedings before labour courts, which today are still bursting at seams. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although the deadline is being followed, the rush is a terrible advisor here, but we hope that all these doubts will be clarified by means of regulations so that the Modern will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u233	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u234	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft act on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, prints no. 408 and 500. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union requires us to comply with certain rules. This Act will in most cases apply to foreign entrepreneurs, but it must be pointed out that its individual regulations will also apply to domestic companies. This law is extremely important, especially at a time when often the discussion of workers' rights falls into a second or another plan. In accordance with the principle which is at the heart of the Act and is the result of an EU directive, the conditions of employment of a posted worker abroad must not be worse than those of the country to which the worker was sent. Therefore, Member States have been obliged to adopt internal regulations in their legal order to ensure that such workers have a minimum level of employment conditions in their territory. The proposed law also includes rules on access to information about posting of workers to Poland, as well as declarations by the company posting employees. There are also specific sanctions for infringements, fines for 1 000. Up to 30,000. zł. Polish employers who post workers to other countries and fail to comply with their obligations under the directive and legislation will also pay penalties. The delegate shall provide him with, among other things, a staff member. Conditions of employment which are no less favourable than those laid down in the national labour code of the standard of working time, daily and weekly rest and rest. No lower than minimum wage must also be paid for work. The remuneration rules for overtime must also be respected. The delegates must also ensure the principles of health and safety at work, equal treatment and non-discrimination in employment provided for in Polish law. Most of the provisions concern the new obligations of the State Labour Inspection for the control of posted workers. The project assumes that employers from other countries outside the European Union are to apply the same rules to workers posted to Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the time of the debate on the project, we did not comment on the proposed solutions, recognising that Poland, as a member of the European Union, must comply with EU directives, especially those on labour matters. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the proposed solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u235	Thank you very much. One Member joined the question. I'm closing the list of people who've been saved for questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On May 10, the so-called. yellow card procedure for plans to revise the Union directive on posting of workers. This time the national parliaments of 11 Member States, including Poland, have said a stop to the controversial revision, which proposes changes that can block the posting of workers in the internal market, and Poland, as we know, is a European leader in the posting of workers. The subject of the Posting of Workers legislation is extremely important. Back to the bill under review today, as regards the article. 12, the original provisions introduced a period of 7 working days for the provision of the State Labour Inspection with relevant information. During the committee's work, this deadline was extended to 10 days, but still, in the case of large employers and a possible wide range of requests for information, it may be difficult. Experts are calling for the deadline to be extended to 15 days. This would be more beneficial for employers. So I wanted to ask: Will it be considered to extend the period proposed in the revised amendment by a few more days? I think 15 days would be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u237	Thank you, Member. The minister's answering, isn't he? Please, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the discussion, for the positions of the clubs, although I must confess, Madame, that I am astonished by your speech. [[Voice from the room: From outer space.]] I don't really know if we're talking about the same bill. You have mentioned so many errors in this bill, I do not know what they result from, because the law has passed the whole process of reconciliation with the social partners. As far as the State Labour Inspection is concerned, the only controversy with the labour inspection was that we impose new obligations on the labour inspection to make it easier for employers, among other things. They haven't been punished, as they've been so far, by the IRS. The labour inspection will have the opportunity to check and this is an facilitation for companies in this area. If we've put on new responsibilities, it's resisting, but we've cleared it up. Today, on the side of the State Labour Inspection, there is no such thing as a problem. Of course, what Mrs Mrzygłock also said is the question of providing additional resources for the State Labour Inspection to carry out these tasks. We have committed that these funds must be included in the next year's budget. I think that this Posting Directive, which we are implementing by 18 June, will significantly ensure better working conditions for posted workers. But we also want to protect the companies that delegate these workers. Because I think the High House knows very well that, in addition to the implementation directive, we have a major problem raised by the Member States of the European Union, some countries and Commissioner Thyssen, concerning the revision of the basic directive, as we have sought here. I thank the High House and the Senate that, in this respect, together with our government, we had the same position that the revision of the basic directive would strike Polish companies. Today, in answer to Mrs Margaret Navel's question concerning the so-called. I would like to say that we are very happy because we have succeeded on the one hand through the pressure and thanks to the speech by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to the Commissioners, as well as through the decisions of our Sejm, the Senate, but also by the parliaments of 11 Member States, to the situation that we have gathered 22 votes that have led us to implement the so-called. the yellow card procedure, which causes one thing - that the European Commission, the Commissioner, needs to deal with this issue again. Yesterday, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy, asked Commissioner Thyssen to withdraw from this proposal to remain with this directive, which we are implementing today, the basic directive, the implementation directive that European countries are implementing today. I hope these solutions we're taking today... We do not have any amendments today, but these suggestions you have been talking about have been taken into account in the committee's work. I would also like to remind you that during the committee work there was an agreement on the employer's request to extend this deadline. We agreed together that a period of 10 days would be the period that would be sufficient to adopt these solutions. So that I hope that these changes that we are proposing, on the one hand, give better protection to posted workers, but also do not endanger the functioning of companies that delegate workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u239	Thank you very much. Do you, Mrs... [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Yes.]] Please, Mrs Bożena Boris-Raccoon, rapporteur for the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u240	Thank you, I have one opinion. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems to me that Mrs Augustynowska from the Modern Club is perhaps a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, we work together, that is my impression. During the committee work, neither you nor any of your club made any such reservations or amendments, and today you have read a number of doubts, most of which have been resolved in the amendments adopted. You have witnessed that it was at the request of representatives of employers, with the approval of the Minister or, in fact, the Ministry and acceptance of the entire committee, that we extended this period from 7 to 10 days, to which the employer's representative agreed. And already negative opinion of the State Labour Inspection, it is the Member, I apologize very much, from the ceiling, I think, because the State Labour Inspection present during the work of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy did not make any comments on the draft law, for she even spoke... [[But you do not have the right to speak to a Member like that.]] I answer questions that aren't true. [[What's this? She's gonna reprimand the envoy?]] [[Lawyer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u241	You promised me one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u242	That's all. The State Labour Inspection did not submit any comments or doubts. Thank you very much. [[About the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u243	Member of the Commission, on the basis of the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u244	In corrigendum mode, because I've been replaced, and you're publicly condemning me here. I would like to remind you that I did not say that this is the opinion of the labour inspection, but these are concerns addressed by labour inspectors, and that is a fundamental difference, so I would advise you to listen with understanding for the future. About these doubts We spoke at first reading, but you, as rapporteur, certainly remembered these comments, and the amendments, which we discussed during the committee's work, were voted by a majority of the rights and justice vote, so, as usual, without taking into account the opposition's opinion. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u245	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 on the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the Government draft Energy Efficiency Act (Prints Nos 426 and 455). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft Energy Efficiency Act. The draft law is a continuation and extension of the Energy Efficiency Act of 15 April 2011. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency requires the implementation of these principles in the Polish legal system. This Directive obliges the Member States of the Union to achieve the objective of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by the end of 2020. The provisions of the Act of 15 April 2011 have been extended until the end of 2016 by the Act of 29 April 2015 amending the Energy Efficiency Act. And now we have started working on a law that already directly implements the provisions of the 2012 Directive. Amendments and comments were tabled to this law - mainly by a dozen economic and social organisations. The Commission for Energy and the Treasury considered the draft law and these comments, amendments to the meetings on 10, 11 and 12 May. Part of the amendments tabled were accepted. Amendments have been adopted consisting of legislative amendments, which are more precise, but amendments have also been accepted, which can be defined as substantive. For example, in the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 extended the catalogue of projects for which an energy efficiency certificate, i.e. white certificates, can be obtained. In point 3, point 3 is added. d: (d) modernization or replacement of household appliances. Point 3 (a) is added. b. Equipment and installations used in industrial, energy processes have been added to the equipment used in telecommunications or IT processes. In point 5, reduction of losses, point (a) is added. e as follows: (e) related to supply systems for telecommunications or IT equipment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15 amended the criteria for determining the energy-intensive end-user that could benefit from the alternative performance mechanism, i.e. a criterion has been introduced in the form of a business activity defined by one of these PKD codes instead of the existing criterion for a 15% threshold for the share of the cost of electricity in the value of production, the possibility of making statements to undertakings selling not only electricity but also heat and natural gas and the requirement to obtain energy savings by not less than 1,5% has been changed. its average annual consumption to require energy savings of not less than 10 t of equivalent oil. The next amendment concerns Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. It is about exemption from statutory audit by an entrepreneur with an energy management system defined in the Polish Standards concerning energy management systems, requirements and recommendations for use. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 reduced the scope of the energy audit of the undertaking by indicating that the audit should be carried out on assets corresponding to at least 90% in total the overall energy consumption of the undertaking concerned. The lack of precise definition of the scope of the audit would force companies to carry out an audit on 100% energy consumed in buildings or complexes of buildings, industrial installations and transport. In practice, this would not be achieved. Many Member States have introduced a restriction in this area, and there is a change in the draft law in this direction. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 43 point 12 is amended as follows: 45a Energy law on the settlement of heating costs for buildings and dwellings to protect users of these premises from charging them with excessive costs in the form of multiples of the average value of those costs. After the article. 43 was added Article. 43a, which according to the new numbering will have number 44. The amendment is more precise and adapts the wording of the Freight Exchange Act to the new regulation. The addition of this provision is important for this draft law and the functioning of stock exchange trading with a certificate of energy efficiency. After the article. 44 was added at the meeting of the Rule Committee. 44a, which according to the new numbering will have number 46. Amendments to the Public Procurement Law. The amendment aims to harmonise the wording of the provisions of the Public Procurement Law as regards the purchase of certificates. Change in the wording of the article. Article 53 and Article 53 55 - these are transitional provisions - the aim is to enable the fulfilment of the obligation to be settled by withdrawing energy efficiency certificates issued by the President of the URE on the basis of the existing provisions, the Act of 15 April 2011, for energy efficiency improvement projects completed before the date of entry into force of the new law. Some of the amendments were not accepted by the committee. It is also important that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office according to changes, according to the provisions of this law, has the possibility to complete the ongoing tenders and proceedings and to announce new tenders and proceedings by 30 September, because this law is to enter into force on 1 October this year. The proceedings and tenders announced by the President of the URE prior to the entry into force of the new law shall be conducted on the basis of the principles set out in the Act in force so far. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the amendments recommended and to adopt the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the Energy Efficiency Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking all those who have worked on this bill, especially associations and various legal and civil persons, who have made various amendments to this law, because some of them were indeed very sensible and the Ministry, as well as the committee to most of the amendments have accepted, which seems to me to be more friendly to the citizens and will increase this objective to which it is devoted, namely energy efficiency, which is what it is all about - to make energy savings more efficient. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about some of the things that raised the greatest controversy during the work on this project in order to resolve some doubts. It was mentioned here, as the rapporteur said, about tenders which raised doubts. In this regard, we received different lists and positions of those who wanted to enter into such invitations to tender. It is clear from the explanations as well as from the amendments that the tenders which have been and the deadlines which have been designated... Anyone who has come forward within the time limit and meets the criteria can of course take part in them. There's no threat here, there's no threat here, although the bill comes in this year, closing the road. Those who have submitted themselves on time will be able to take advantage of this possibility, to benefit from the existing rules as they apply. I'm raising doubts about those who said that if the bill comes in before the end of the year, let's say, at the end of the third quarter, it'll close some road by the end of the year. There's no such threat. Of course, the invitation to tender was subject to time limits, if someone did not arrive on time, it is difficult, but this law does not change this state of affairs, it merely maintains the condition which was previously in force. The second very important issue we discussed was the heat stakes, including the warm tap water. Here, we had an analogy. This warm tap water once promised by one of the prime ministers turned out to be water, yes, warm, but very expensive, because those who accounted for whether they provided hot water or heat at all... If someone did not have a measuring system, i.e. some divisors or heat meters, it was often charged with several dozen times the average cost of providing or producing this energy. Therefore, in defence of ordinary citizens, we have introduced a provision that allows the cost of heat to be cleared at average rates. There's an entire article on how it's going to be calculated. So we are going to end this, you can say, over-use of those citizens who do not have such devices, which also shows that there will be no pressure, extortion and punishment for not having such devices. Of course, we were also faced with some proposals, especially those involved in the assembly, calculation and production of meters, in order to introduce a quick forced installation of dividers and heat meters, but we came from the assumption that there was no need to do so. This can be calculated at average rates, and where such technical possibilities are, of course there are incentives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to install such devices. So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the Law and Justice Club is satisfied with the work...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u249	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u250	...in committee and will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u251	Thank you very much. Ms Mirosław Nykiel will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour of presenting a position on behalf of the Civic Platform Club regarding the Energy Efficiency Act. I hope that we all know here that energy efficiency is a cost-effective strategy for building economies, not necessarily with increased energy consumption. I would like to give you an example of the state of California, which started implementing energy efficiency programmes in the mid-70s, among others. by creating appropriate legislation and technical standards, with precise equipment performance requirements. Over the following years, energy consumption in California per capita remained roughly constant while domestic consumption in the United States doubled. As part of her strategy, California has implemented a loading order for new energy resources, which put energy efficiency first, renewable energy sources second, and new coal and gas power plants last. So first, let us use less energy and produce it in a way that does not harm the environment, building an economy that serves not only the living generation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! So what is energy efficiency? This saved energy is determined by measuring or estimating consumption before using an energy efficiency improvement measure and taking into account external conditions affecting energy consumption. In Poland, as I said before, we have done a lot on this road to energy efficiency, but we are still quite distant from economies with high energy efficiency. The 2011 Energy Efficiency Act and the so-called "Energy Efficiency Act'. white certificates have given many entities, such as housing cooperatives, housing communities, local government units, the opportunity to invest in energy efficient solutions and the possibility of partial reimbursement of expenditure, but, more importantly, they have given an opportunity to reinvest these funds in energy efficient devices. The draft new law eliminates the possibility of recovering energy-saving investments completed after 1 January 2014. The Act gives the possibility to recover expenditure only in the case of investments made after 1 January 2014. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The environments concerned estimate that for this 3-year period without the possibility of reimbursement between 2011 and 2014 they will lose about PLN 500 And yet a large part of this money was returned to the State Treasury in the form of VAT. The funds recovered could be used for energy-efficient investments, wall warming, etc., etc. This would reduce the energy intensity of buildings and, more importantly, hundreds of thousands of tenants could pay monthly lower bills for maintaining their homes and shared parts. This money is also new jobs or the maintenance of existing jobs. That is why I ask, Minister, why you are not willing to give Polish investors a chance to continue their efforts, ignoring their efforts so far and preventing the return of the investments incurred in the years 2011-2014. Why does the Government of Law and Justice not count on the costs of ordinary, average citizens paying electricity and heat bills? Why don't you care about the state budget by disregarding VAT on energy-efficient investments? Why don't you care about keeping jobs and creating new ones? Why doesn't Law and Justice keep their electoral promises? Finally, why doesn't Law and Justice care about ordinary Poles, whom, as you have repeated all the time in the campaign and as the Prime Minister repeats, you listen so much and care so much about them? In conclusion, the Civic Platform club makes the bill's support conditional on the adoption of solutions enabling Polish investors to return energy-efficient investments incurred in 2011 and 2014. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u253	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the Government's draft Energy Efficiency Act 426 and 455. The process in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury of the government project is practically over, so I will analyse, among others. the report of the above-mentioned committee in print No 455. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted. According to Art. 14 project entities are required to achieve a final energy saving of 1.5% each year. The 2011 Energy Efficiency Act, which is still in force, provides for Article. 15, the size and method of calculation of energy shall be determined according to the primary energy corresponding to the value of the energy efficiency certificate. The proposed system for calculating savings is more favourable to users of the generally accepted district heating network. The project limited the possibility to apply a replacement fee gradually until 2018. In the following years, the entity will have the right to buy back the fee, provided that it has not acquired the property rights resulting from the energy efficiency certificates, because the price of the property rights resulting from those certificates was higher than the unit replacement fee, or where there are insufficient offers for the sale of those rights. Bottom line, there's a chance it'll popularize the white certificate system. Unfortunately, the draft regulation on the detailed scope of energy efficiency audit and the way in which it is carried out, the design of the energy efficiency audit card and the methods for calculating energy savings are not included in the project, and it is therefore difficult to predict the impact of the provisions of the draft law on the implementation of the provisions by the addressees. This Regulation is referred to in Article. 29 of this project. It is also necessary to clarify what should be included in the audit energy efficiency confirming the achievement of the planned final energy savings of the completed project. Failure to describe this case will, among other things, make it impossible to prepare an analysis of energy consumption during the annual period when the project is completed. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 is defined in accordance with the PKD as the economic activity carried out by the final customer, which provides the relevant information to the energy undertaking selling electricity, heat or natural gas. Attention should also be paid to Article. Article 55 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, according to which, by 30 June 2019, energy efficiency certificates issued under the repealed law shall be taken into account in the implementation of the obligation laid down in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Act is to enter into force on 1 October 2016. Everything that is good must therefore be done to enable stakeholders to make the necessary investments to improve their energy efficiency. Other investments are carried out in residential and commercial buildings, among others. as regards the connection of buildings to the heating system. Energy needs to develop, move towards modernisation. New technologies must also be used in this direction. Kukiz.15 proposes the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will now speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, energy efficiency projects should be given the highest priority. This could be even more important than those aimed at modernising our energy, for new investments. These are extremely important issues. After the introduction of the law in 2011, many entities took such an effort, took investment effort to make the Polish economy more energy efficient. Unfortunately, I cannot share the optimism of the President, who spoke about the fact that this law has been sufficiently improved in committee work. Unfortunately, there is a very serious concern that operators who have so far carried out thermomodernisation investments or other investments aimed at increasing energy efficiency will not be able to benefit from the existing legislation. Extending the validity of the law by the end of the third quarter does not solve this problem according to my information. The President of the Energy Regulatory Office will not be able to announce another tender, and only in such a situation would these entities be able to benefit from the benefits of existing solutions. Therefore, the Modern Club hereby amends this Act. The essence of these amendments is to extend the period until the entry into force of the Act until the end of this year, so as to enable the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to conduct a tender and thus benefit from the benefits of the Act by entities which have not so far done so. I would like to remind you that this applies to a lot of entities, this applies to many housing cooperatives, and this applies to many Polish entrepreneurs. They had the right to expect that their actions would be rewarded in the way that the previous law had provided for. They had the right to rely on the stability of the solutions proposed by the Polish state, that in a specific way they would be able to benefit from these solutions. If these amendments are rejected, we will be forced to vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A very important bill. As my predecessors have already said here, I will repeat what I have already said several times, it is easier to save energy than to produce it and then waste it inefficiently. Energy sources at the moment, especially fossil ones, are exhausting, and only the issue of simulation and good calculations is to determine, calculate when they will end. Here there is no doubt whether it will be in this generation or in the next generation, it is already visible, and it is the question whether it will happen for our children or for our grandchildren. Therefore, the first and overarching goal is to save fossil energy and to look for alternative sources, which is among others. renewable energy, which must also be done very quickly. We need to save energy at every stage: at the production stage, i.e. more efficient production equipment, i.e. to produce as much energy as possible from the material unit with the cheapest energy consumption, which will later be used by our economy, widely understood, transmission - it is also known that processing and non-supply equipment must be more efficient so that the losses are as small as possible, and that the consumption of this electricity by industrial users and individuals themselves. This is very important, very simple to do, only we need to create conditions for this. Much has already been done in this regard since 2011. The law that worked gives certain results, but it's not enough. We have a new European directive that goes further, and I think that we will change the rules here sometime, because there will have to be progress and greater rigour. On the other hand, we must create conditions and incentives for this. One such element is the white certificates that functioned, which mobilized through certain benefits of energy users to save them, to take pro-efficiencies. This must be supported, this must be supported. It is therefore important to respect what has been done so far, the actions of all individuals, institutions. Especially many petitions have come to us from housing communities, housing cooperatives. They have incurred specific expenditures, their involvement has been quite high, and at the moment this will not be respected or compensated in any way. This undermines the credibility of the state in the sense of its citizens. Therefore, the Polish People's Party considers that all the measures that have been taken so far should be taken into account as much as possible in the solutions taken at the moment. As my predecessor said, the Polish People's Party will be in favour of what is possible at the moment being included in subsequent tenders, so that these white certificates can be obtained by entrepreneurs. We will support all actions, Minister, which will contribute to growth. energy efficiency, because this is our goal, the aim of our economy, which allows us to create the competitiveness of our economy and, in turn, to citizens, by saving energy, by reducing the living costs associated with energy consumption, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with daily living conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u259	Thank you very much. Twelve ladies and gentlemen of the House have signed up for the question. I'm closing the list of registered Members. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. She is the first to ask the question of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to emphasise the substance of the position of the actors who call for the amendment of the Article. 58, they invested a lot of money in view of the principles of continuity and stability of the law. After all, they hoped that the current Energy Efficiency Act would be in place by the end of this year. During the committee work, this amendment was denied by the Ministry and consequently rejected. The case concerns several hundred entities which have already engaged in costly documentation preparation for the tender of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for 2016 for the allocation of energy efficiency certificates. In order to continue to be able to obtain white certificates for energy-efficient projects carried out, it would be appropriate to amend the draft law in order that it would enter into force on 1 January 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will not reward those who have neglected something...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u261	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u262	Wait a minute. ...or the fact that they're slowing down, as the Ministry's representative said on the committee. I would like to appeal and ask if the Ministry will find a solution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u263	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u264	...which would benefit the investors who spent that money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u265	Now the question is asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej from the Civic Platform. You're welcome. [[We can't even speak, Marshal.]] [[One minute is too short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask the government side, the designers of the Energy Efficiency Act, if 800 million PLN is a lot, is it not enough money? I am not accidentally asking because about 500 entities are currently asking for this amount. These are cooperatives and housing communities, local self-government units, including district old-age houses, city offices and municipalities, and their units and budgetary establishments. They are fighting to recover their money for the energy-efficient projects carried out after 1 January 2011. Honesty dictates not to change the rules of the game during the game. It is clear that the entities described take action on the basis of applicable law and have full confidence in the stability of the law in Poland. It is therefore all the more necessary to do everything possible to amend the draft law in the article. 58 that the new law should enter into force only after 1 January 2017. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This solution will maintain the ability of the above entities, by many investors, to obtain a white certificate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u267	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u268	...by the end of 2016, and consequently will allow them to obtain a partial reimbursement of the costs of the investments already carried out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u269	Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Draft law - specifically changes in the article. 58 - has caused great concern to many institutions, which have made high investments in energy-efficient investments, thermomodernisation of buildings, modernization of lighting, etc. These are housing cooperatives, housing communities, local governments or public institutions. The changes introduced will prevent these investors from trying to recover some of the expenditure they have spent. Why are restrictions and restrictions introduced instead of encouraging investment in an energy-efficient economy that is so important? This is a bad way to undermine citizens' confidence in the law. Think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u271	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you if you will follow all these suggestions, requests and discussions, which clearly suggest that the law should be stable and give you a chance to invest, for future energy-efficient solutions. Why do you insist on these possible EU sanctions - paying attention to the word "possible" because you know that it is not known whether these sanctions will be or not - and you do not want to help Polish investors, you do not want to help ordinary Polish citizens who, through this use of energy-efficient solutions, have the chance to have smaller electricity bills and other energy charges? After all, you provided so much time for Poles - and you still assure - that you will listen to them. Will you give it a chance? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After listening to all of us now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u273	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna April from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a brief question because many Members have asked me a question about white certificates. My question is as follows: I have this question, Minister: Will the President of the Energy Regulatory Office be able to issue white certificates for the projects carried out before 2014 until the entry into force of the new law? Please tell us clearly and clearly, because I'm sure you do. Does this law oblige the owners of the premises to assemble divisors? Always editing these divisors woke up not only among owners, but above all among people who use the premises a lot of dissatisfaction and controversy. Thank you very much for this entry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He appeared in this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u275	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Marek Suski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the national environmental fund, about the amount of part of the finance allocated to energy efficiency projects. This is enigmatically enshrined in the Act, i.e. it is necessary to clarify this provision. We have here a proposal for an amendment to be tabled. If necessary, we will see her at the committee meeting. I also have a question for the Minister. Does the Minister believe that if the opposition does not accept these solutions, the opposition will also complain to Brussels this time that it is being mistreated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Oh, my gosh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u277	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Jan Warzech of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for the Minister. What is the reason for changing the energy saving requirement by not less than 1.5% its average annual consumption for energy savings of not less than 10 t of equivalent oil? And second question. In practice, how can it be possible to obtain white certificates for the modernisation and replacement of household appliances? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u279	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the issue of the tendering system for business certificates. I've analysed the article. 54 - For proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act on energy efficiency certificates and tenders, the existing provisions apply - and I have a question. Will the tender for energy efficiency certificates be conducted in 2016? Many environments emphasize that this is a very important question for them, they have doubts here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u281	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No one in this room has any doubt that electricity and energy in general need to be saved. The paradox is that very often it is so that in order to obtain savings, you must first bear the cost. Electricity costs in Poland are high compared to other countries. This is strongly felt by the Polish steel industry - the high cost of electricity causes, as far as competitiveness is concerned, that the steel industry in other countries is in a difficult situation, so to speak. I have a question: What will be the consequences of the proposed regulations for the steel industry in Poland, including for the Celsa Ostrowiec plant in my home town, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie? Will these regulations not affect the deterioration of the steel industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u283	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Gryglas from the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Investment in energy efficiency projects is not a speed run, it is not, as the President said, that some have been late that some have missed and will not benefit from these rules. This bill, this novel, means more to these people, with obstacles. We unnecessarily create these obstacles for those entrepreneurs who have made an effort and who should be rewarded for this effort. I ask you, Minister, to make it clear to these people whether they will be given a chance to settle the investments they have already made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u285	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The above-mentioned Act sets out energy savings targets by 2020. Among other things, it requires companies to carry out an energy audit every 4 years on the basis of the Freedom of Business Act. This means that companies that employ more than 250 people and have the right turnover will have to spend every 4 years on this energy audit, not always with strict conditions. energy. I mean whether other criteria should be applied: energy or gas criteria. What caused you to apply this criterion? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u287	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u288	Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to ask the question whether the Ministry estimated how many investors who invested in energy efficient solutions in the years 2011 and 2014 lost in the implementation of these changes, because it was between 500 and 800 million PLN, according to stakeholders. But wouldn't it be worth leaning on this problem? After all, somehow these measures could go back to the budget in the form of reinvestments, VAT or simply construction investments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u289	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now will he speak - will he or will he not take away? - Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Energy, Minister Andrzej Piotrowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In accordance with the provisions of the Act, which is still in force, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office may conduct further invitations to tender in a given year on 15 April 2011. In particular, it may carry them out where the value of energy efficiency certificates that may be presented for redemption in a given year does not ensure that the national energy efficiency target is met. The information provided by the Energy Regulatory Office to the Ministry shows that the current tender, which was launched at the beginning of the year, should be decided by the end of June. Therefore, there is nothing to prevent another tender from being launched in 2016. This depends on whether the notifications that have been made in the tender currently announced fulfil this objective. According to the preliminary information and assessments of the President of URE, he intends to launch another tender this year. In turn, in the amendment of the law, which you had the opportunity to read, in its article. 56 It is written that the existing provisions apply to proceedings initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Energy Efficiency Certificates Act and tenders. Therefore, if the President of URE announces the tender before the entry into force of the new law, and thus, as planned, in October, the existing rules will remain in force until the procedure is completed. I think that's the answer to most of your questions. I am very built up by your concern and a little concerned that you have not read exactly the draft of this law, which has been processed, because there is an answer... Sorry, those didaskalia related to the current situation in the URE maybe they were actually necessary, but I think they explain it in depth at the moment. So that I think at this point what Mrs Nykiel, Mr Gryglas and Mr Kasprzak expressed in the club's statements to some extent Here is the answer, similarly to the questions of Mrs Margaret Navel, Mrs Eve Kołodziej and finally, I apologize, yes, Mr Gryglas. You wanted to know if they could account for it. Maybe one more comment, because all the time there were questions about how long ago. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the current law, if the President of the URE announces another tender, it will be possible to settle all investments... [[That's right. But will he announce, Minister?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the URE, as a result of the actions of our predecessors, as well as their predecessors and in accordance with EU law, is an independent body. We cannot tell him, but I assure you that he is a body which largely fulfils the responsibilities entrusted to him, and one of these responsibilities is the organisation of tenders. I don't think there's any reason to believe he won't. Unfortunately, neither the Minister nor the Sejm nor even the committee may order the President, but I believe that this invitation to tender will be announced. I'm sure the questions from you will act as president of the URE additionally mobilizing. That's why I'd say yes. If you feel any discomfort after such a resolution, I will tell Mr Suski that I do not know if you will complain to the committee. I don't think there's anything to do, but the future is unpredictable, right? [[You always can.]] Now, Mr Warzecha's question is why these tons of oil were introduced there. Well, it may be that it concerns an entrepreneur who has different sources of energy in different forms. Bringing this into a common conversion factor is at this point a clear simple justification, it can be calculated engineeringly, and hence it was given in the conversion tons, that was the purpose here - to sort it out. In fact, I also go back to Mr Khrushch's question from Kukiz,15 - we have such unofficial assurances from the President of the URE that he announces that yes, there will be this tender, but he did not give it to us in writing. As regards the steelworks - the question of Mr Kryj of the PiS - including the Huta Celsa in Ostrowiec, the changes that we have introduced in the article. 15, we included a large group of companies, we listed a large group of companies there so that there was no doubt. Among the areas of activity that have been mentioned there are, of course, the steelworks. So that I think there's no reason here for any concern that something's gonna happen. However, I must say that I did not fully understand Mr. Piotr Cieślik's question about losses... [[Cieslinski.]] Excuse me? [[Cieslinski.]] Cieslinski, I am so sorry, sir. As for the 500-800 million losses incurred by the interested parties, I understand that this is about investment... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? [[Recovery in white certificates in case there are no tenders.]] Yeah, but I understand that's the subject we discussed. I don't think you should call it loss. That is, if someone made an investment aimed at energy efficiency, i.e. saving energy, it obviously benefited, especially if it was a reasonable investment. Maybe he didn't take advantage of the possibility of additional support, but let's not call it a loss. On the other hand, it seems to me that in this arrangement which has been proposed here by the High House, there is no reason to fear that someone, I do not know, will not make it. Of course, it may not start in another announced tender, but it all ends someday. It seems to me that there is enough time and time at this point, and the opportunity to resolve these matters in a final manner. So that I hope I've explained your doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u291	Thank you very much, Minister. Will the Member speak? Please, Mr Maciej Małecki, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In another sentence, I will answer the question of Mrs Jan Warzecha, and I apologise for the question of how the possibility of obtaining white certificates for energy-efficient household appliances will be used. This is an opening of opportunities for companies that provide such services in the ESCO system, i.e. they come out with an offer e.g. to a housing cooperative, e.g. to hospitals, so that many users can benefit from it, and the settlements follow the saved energy. I think the other questions have already been answered by the Minister. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u293	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law on investments in wind power plants (prints 315 and 365). I ask Mr Grzegorz Schreiber to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure to submit a report on the Parliamentary draft law on investments in wind power plants. The report is contained in print No 365. The aim of the project is to determine the conditions, rules and modalities for the location, implementation and operation of wind power plants and the conditions for the location of residential buildings in the vicinity of wind power plants. There are currently no rules in Polish legislation that explicitly regulate the location of wind power plants, which results in numerous protests of residents living in neighbouring areas with existing or planned wind power plants. These conflicts are due to the potential negative impact of these investments on human health and life, livestock and wild animals, as these are also subject to this risk. The most important phenomena associated with the operation of the power plant include noise and infrasound emissions and the so-called effect. Shadow flickering. In addition, there are concerns about the technical state of wind power plants as a whole and their individual equipment, including technical equipment. In extreme cases of technical negligence by the owner, this can lead and unfortunately leads to failure and dissection of the shovels. All these problems were highlighted by the Supreme Audit Chamber in its information on the results of the audit. This is included in the information on the location and construction of wind farms on land, hereinafter referred to as "the information', dated 26 July 2015. The information negatively addressed the Supreme Audit Chamber to the process of location and subsequent use of wind power plants. In response to this, a group of applicants prepared a project that was examined by the Infrastructure Commission. The regulations proposed in the draft law relate to the following issues. There are, of course, new legal provisions, such as the introduction of the definition of wind power plants, technical elements of wind power plants, the establishment that the location of wind power plants with a capacity of more than 40 kW is based solely on the local spatial planning plan, the determination of the distance within which wind power plants can be located from residential buildings and certain forms of nature protection, equal to or more than 10 times the height of the wind power plant measured from the ground level to the highest point of the building, including technical elements, in particular the rotor with the shovels, the local plan providing for the location of wind power plants, which is to contain the maximum total height of the wind power plant and is to be drawn up at least for an area where the residential power plant cannot be located and its limit is the maximum height of the wind power plant in it. The draft, which we are discussing in the committee's submission, also sets out the rules and procedures of the Technical Supervision Authority when assessing the technical condition of the wind power plant. Other changes - because these are the new provisions that this law introduces, but this law also introduces amendments to other laws, e.g. to the Construction Law Act. Here we have a change in the definition of the structure by removing the wind power plant from the current content, indicating the voivodeship as a higher degree body of architectural and construction administration in relation to the old town and the first degree body in matters of construction works and works for the wind power plant. With regard to the Land Planning and Land Planning Act, the principle is that a local plan providing for the location of buildings should enable the location of micro-installations within the meaning of the Renewable Energy Sources Act to be located also in the case of a non-production site, unless the establishment of a local plan prohibits the location of such facilities. With regard to the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection and public participation in environmental protection, there is a change in the designation of the Regional Environment Director as the authority responsible for the decision on environmental conditions. Finally, as regards transitional provisions, the draft law proposes regulations relating to administrative proceedings initiated prior to the entry into force of the Act on draft local plans and studies of conditions and spatial planning of municipalities, as well as the conditions for obtaining decisions of the Technical Supervision Authority authorising the operation of wind power plants. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law on investment in wind power plants entered the Sejm on 19 February 2016. On 10 March, it was sent to the Committee on Infrastructure for First Reading. It took place on March 16th. The Commission has set up an emergency subcommittee to which it has addressed the proposal. The subcommittee adopted a report at three meetings on 16, 17 and 18 March, which in turn came to committee. The Commission adopted the report on 30 March. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many amendments were adopted in the course of the work on this project, both in the subcommittee and in the committee. This must be said clearly and clearly: this project aroused widespread public interest, on the one hand, expressed through applause and clear approval for its procession, for its creation, and on the other hand, it gathered critical opinions. This has also been reflected in the work of the committee. The Commission worked on an open courthouse, invited social parties who participated in committee meetings and expressed their views, just as I mentioned earlier - some of them expressing approval for many of the provisions of this project, others very critically referring to them. It must therefore be made very clear that a number of amendments to this proposal were adopted during the work of the committee and the subcommittee. It is not as it could be read in some places that the project was adopted without any changes as presented by the applicants. A dozen amendments were accepted in the subcommittee, and they were adopted at the committee meeting on the basis of 13 amendments. Minority requests have been made, and I will tell the High House as soon as possible. With regard to the amendments which the subcommittee introduced - of course there were a number of editorial amendments - it is certainly worth recalling at this point the amendment in the article. The 28th change led to one thing. The project originally divided into proceedings concerning permits for the construction of residential buildings and wind farms. The project divided these situations into three subgroups. The subcommittee has decided to harmonise this situation. On the one hand, in relation to building permits for residential buildings and wind power plants, it introduced a provision which states that all of them will be carried out on the basis of the existing rules, provided that the distance requirements were maintained in the planning plan, i.e. uniformed the procedure. Those groups that were in the draft applicants were changed at that time. This seems to be a very good change. A number of changes, I think I will not prolong my speech, subcommittees, very important changes, were also adopted at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, which I mentioned, which adopted the subcommittee report. As I said, 13 changes have been made and I will focus, and I will recall one amendment to the article. 30, it's worth a brief description here. There are changes in the article. 30 led to legal regulations that allow housing to be implemented, provided that there are local plans. It was so important, it is so important that it actually raised doubts about the inhabitants who, on the one hand, were punished by the builders of the power plant, and then were to be punished with additional punishment, they could not expand their homes. We took the first step in committee, allowing, through the adoption of amendments to the Article. 30... At the same time we have announced, and this, I think, will be fulfilled by my club, further moving changes that will go somewhat beyond the local plan, but will also make changes in the so-called. Wookies, which should also be adapted and should enable the building of residential homes in those areas which are subject to a windmill risk, although this will be decided by the municipality which will take decisions in this respect in accordance with the will of the inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think so much for such a general introduction to our discussion. Of course, it is also my duty to say that a number of amendments have been tabled during the work of the Committee on Infrastructure, which have not been accepted by the committee. Some of them were reported as minority proposals and such minority proposals, the committee noted 20. However, after the committee worked through this project, the committee believes that it will contribute to the regulation of the rules of the location of wind power plants in Poland - local plan, distance criterion, construction process through permission for use, decision allowing operation and subsequent operation. In addition, the demands are being met, which I think is quite important, the Supreme Audit Chamber, which was included in the information, which the committee at the committee meeting last week, such an additional committee meeting discussing the NIK reports, listened to, took note of it. It is only regrettable that this report, which was adopted two years ago, only now could we listen in committee, in the Sejm. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, I would like to ask the High Sejm to adopt a parliamentary draft law on investments in the field of wind power plants from print No. 365. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u295	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the rapporteur pointed out a few moments ago, the process of the location of wind power plants creates a lot of social conflicts, a huge social resonance, which is why the law we are debating is of great interest. Due to the thinness of time, I will have to discuss very briefly and briefly the changes that are there and the amendments that my club is reporting at second reading. Article 1 of the proposal, specifying the scope of the Act, provides that the Act does not apply to investments carried out in the maritime areas of the Republic of Poland. So any whining that the law will hinder the development of wind energy is a lie. I would like to remind you that for years in the concept of spatial development of the country there has been shown an area of coastal sea, where wind farms can be located without putting people living nearby at risk of nuisance. I will point out that the provisions of the Act do not apply to devices with low power, not more than the power of micro-installations within the meaning of Article. 2 point 19 of the Renewable Energy Act. That is exactly what the article contains. 23 of the draft discussed here, contained in the committee's report in print No 365. I will recall the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2014 on procedures for the location and construction of wind power plants. It contains e.g. information that about 1/3 of the location of these investments is on land belonging to persons who perform important functions in the authorities of local municipalities: wójts, mayors and councillors. The last report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, dated April 2016, by No 47/2016/D/15/502/KIN, concludes that, in order to avoid a conflict of interests of persons acting in the commune bodies, these persons submitted statements of conflict of interest at the start of planning processes and those who did not disable themselves were subject to disciplinary sanctions. You can see that this is a very important problem, and the Supreme Auditorium also sees it. This draft law contained in print No 365 responds to these problems identified in the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It states that, as Art. 3 - the location of the wind power plant is based solely on the local spatial planning plan. This is, let me remind you, the procedure described in detail in the Spatial Planning and Development Act, supported by expert opinions and requiring public consultation. High Izbo, in order to avoid the negative impact of wind power plants on settlement areas, the Act sets the minimum distance between a wind power plant and a residential building or a mixed-function building consisting of a residential function. This is 10 times the total amount of the power plant measured from ground level to its highest point. This also applies to the location of new residential buildings near wind farms. However, this is not a restriction on reconstruction, reconstruction, expansion, renovation, assembly or reconstruction of existing residential buildings. The local plan for the location of the wind power plant should set its maximum overall height. High Izbo, I have already told you that we have very little time for these speeches, completely inadequate to the seriousness of the problems and complexity of the matter that this project is dealing with. I would just like to add that the project amends the existing provisions of the Land Planning and Development Act, including the Act of 3 October 2008 on Environmental Impact Assessments and the Construction Law. Since I have very little time, I will briefly mention the amendments that my club reports at second reading. Firstly, let us exclude the rules, we propose that the rules relating to the competence of the Technical Supervision Authority be deleted, i.e. the limitation of the scope of this law on location and construction as a strict matter investment and exclusion from the regulation of technical matters. The result is the deletion of Chapter 4, the deletion of Article. 27 and Article 27 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general The second group of provisions that we propose to amend is the extension area proposed in the draft time law, in which municipalities can adopt local plans. [[♪ The bell ♪]] providing for the location of a residential building or building with a residential function under existing regulations, from 12 to 36 months. Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. The second area is the possibility to make decisions about the conditions of construction, and that for 36 months. High Izbo, the neighborhood of the wind power plant is such a big problem...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u297	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u298	...for local communities that we shouldn't increase this trauma, just try to shape the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u299	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u300	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...to shape the rules so that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] On behalf of my club, I am making amendments to the bill and, of course, I am asking the High House to accept this project, and I declare... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u301	Madame, your time is long past. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u302	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform on the draft law on investments in wind power plants. The legal arrangements for the location of wind power plants are very important, but the proposed provisions are negative, because instead of developing the production of renewable energy, they will paralyze it and wind power plants are the cheapest source of this energy. The Law of Anti-window Act of the Sejm... [[How instantly, two months.]] ...because that's what you have to call it, it's disturbing, all the more so because it's a parliamentary project, which is without public consultation. Indeed, as my previous speaker said - I agree - the procedure of this law is inadequate to the problem that we are dealing with, because it is also being examined only by the Committee on Infrastructure, with the exception of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury so important in this case. Art. 4 of this project says that the distance between the location of a wind power plant and a residential facility is to be equal to or greater than 10 times its height with the rotor and shovels. This provision will freeze the implementation of new wind investments, and in the case of existing ones it will exclude from the possibility of housing a huge amount of land, often private. We are surprised by this fact, because we should increase energy generation from RES, because the requirements of the European Union require Poland to produce energy from renewable sources at 15% by 2020 And now we're at 12.4%. This may mean billions of penalties or the need to buy this energy from neighbours. According to the project, the area on which the wind power plant would be built would have to be excluded from the housing site, which at the proposed distances will result in one turbine with a height of about 200 m - that is about the highest at the moment - the exclusion from the development of the residential area the size of Sopot. This limits the right of property owners to dispose of them, giving them sumptuousness to claim compensation from municipalities, i.e. once again the consequences of the law are charged to municipalities. In some cases even entire municipalities will be excluded from housing. At least that's unreasonable. Limiting their location to a distance of ten times their height will result in a lack of such places with the urbanized area of our country. We have a large distribution of habitats, about 10%. The territory of our country is suitable for the winds to be built with these installations. In France, the minimum distance of a wind power plant from residential buildings is 500 m, in Austria between 500 and 1000 m, regardless of height. We offer about 2 km. In urban terms, not everyone likes windmills, but would smoke chimneys be better? As far as noise is concerned, which was raised here, the latest generation turbines are now being installed, which are completely soundless. Of course, they remain of the old type, imported years ago, for which an audit must be carried out and simply gradually eliminated. The next mistake of this project is Art. 6 referring to the fact that the areas allocated to wind farms should be taken into account in the preparation of a study of the conditions and directions of spatial development of the municipality, a study of the metropolitan union and the adoption of a spatial plan of the voivodship. I understand the requirement to mark such places at the stage of drawing up the local plan, where during the process we have mandatory consultations with residents, but it is a mistake for such specialised and detailed studies to be carried out at the stage of the study, i.e. at such a high level of generality. wind power, which would be the best terrain for the construction of wind power plants. On what basis are planners supposed to type them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because that's what they think? There you go, two more sentences, right? Thank you very much. It would make a lot more sense if in the planning documents we only marked the areas of shut-off of windmills, and not indicate where they can be placed. The solutions to the proposed law will result in no new wind power plant being created and the current wind power plant may fall, as maintenance fees will increase around threefold.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u303	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u304	So obvious discrimination...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u305	Madam President, there have already been two opinions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u306	...the wind farm raises the question whether by chance... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u307	Thank you, Member. [[But at least let him finish, Marshal.]] [[It's too short a time for such a complicated act to speak out.]] Please, Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15. Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is this bill necessary? Yes. For many years we have had such a situation. On the one hand, old technologies were coming into the country, old windmills that were located in scandalous places. There's no doubt we'll find such places in the country. On the other hand, we have a very well-developed branch of industry, a lot of investments in Poland. We have to say today that more than 50% this whole industry is purely Polish business, purely Polish money. Of this more than 20% is the share of Polish state-owned energy companies such as PGE and ENERGY. Speaking of the future of this industry, we need to take these variables into account. And now, in my opinion, in the opinion of Kukiz15, a normal balance is needed between the very important social interest and the energy that is already noticeable in the country's balance sheet, which is also needed. Are we now characterized by this realism? Are we keeping a healthy balance? How to balance this law now, in its final records, undoubtedly, as I stress, the social interest? Often we have a person, we have associations, groups of people who categorically oppose this industry and the location of windmills, and on the other hand we have local governments, and we have social groups who say that under certain conditions they would agree to such locations. And now, which direction are we going? We as Kukiz.15 from the beginning tried to balance, show different directions in which we should go. That is why these amendments that we are making today are moving in this direction, because on the one hand, for example. We are talking about distances from already existing wind power plants. We believe that we should not punish these farmers, these locals and give them, I don't know, 10 distances from the already existing windmills. If a farmer wants to build himself closer, he should, in our opinion, have this possibility. We make an amendment here so that this distance is 600 m. If there is a windmill, the farmer or resident should be able to locate his residential building closer to such a windmill. Come on. We also make an amendment on vertical axis power plants. We believe - as Mrs Paluch here spoke about offshore power plants which are excluded from this law - that vertical axis windmills have a future, this is a very innovative technology. Today we know that it is very little harmful, which is why we should give it the opportunity to develop in our country today. I don't know the amendments to Law and Justice, I haven't read them, we have our amendments to UDT, for example, that technical activities shouldn't exceed 0,1%. Because on the one hand, we shouldn't strangle this industry, we should give them the opportunity to develop. Therefore, we believe that as far as the UDT fee is concerned, this should be 0.1%. We are also talking in our amendments about allowing wind turbines to be repaired, otherwise we define repairs. We believe that these activities should be easier, that the UDT should not have such opportunities here that the obvious things can be controlled. The time frame for the operation of the UDT should also be changed. But, as I say, I don't deal with the Law and Justice amendments, I don't know them, maybe they already contain it. As my predecessor Małgorzata Chmiel said, as Poland, we need to... 15% by 2020 our energy in the balance sheet must come from renewable energy sources. What does that mean? Today we're close to this point, but we can't slow down. Investing in photovoltaics, in biogas plants does not exclude coal, in all this and in new technologies in coal we should invest, because it is the European Union that will impose penalties on us in a few years, we will be against the wall and it will be us as Poland - and we already have expensive energy - we will still have to pay for it. In the future, it will be Germany, Sweden and our neighbours who will have cheaper energy. I will also mention that by 2030 we will have to have this energy from RES at 27%, and therefore - I am running out of time - I think that this balance is very needed and that is what we should aim for, the balance, the balance between the social interest and the development of the industry, which may also be leading in the future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, this is a very important amendment of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u310	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a law which was an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, for a new law on wind energy, based on a compromise between investors, landowners, residents of municipalities, local authorities and protesters, but, unfortunately, you have not taken advantage of this opportunity. I say it with great sadness. During the committee work, we were ready for substantive cooperation. The modern proposed 16 well-founded amendments based precisely on the word of the State in respect of this law unknown, namely the word "compromise." Once again, instead of working calmly on the best solutions for all interested parties, you have created a conflict. [[Well-founded.]] That conflict you caused caused over 3,000 people to arrive at the Sejm. entrepreneurs, local authorities, farmers, employees of companies who protested loudly against the solutions adopted in this project. This white-red windmill is a souvenir of this manifestation. On the other hand, we have the voice of those who claim that wind energy is harmful to man, inefficient, expensive, unstable, destroys the landscape and must therefore be destroyed. The question should be asked: Are wind power plants the only investment in Poland caused by social protests? The answer is, of course not. People protest throughout Poland against smaller and bigger investments, against road construction, bridges, power lines, garbage incinerators, even protest against the construction of anti-missile shields. Is it logical to say that you will be following the protests during this term of office of the Sejm to make laws that block the possibility of building roads, bridges, highways, waste incineration plants, energy lines? [[NIK report.]] Why didn't you block the missile shield? What's more, you represent it as your success? You're choosing a group of protestors? In what ways are protesters against the shield better than the protesters against the windmills, or what are they worse at? [[NIK report.]] You use very often valid arguments, but you use them very instrumentally to achieve your political goals. The question should be asked: Were there wind farms whose construction and location was unlawfully carried out? Answer: They were. Should wind energy be eliminated as a result Can it improve the law to meet the expectations of all parties, and lead to its compliance, simply? [[That's what we're doing.]] Is your bill the result of an agreement? It's not. Your bill only covers one page. Your arguments with which you can agree, but from which you can draw completely different conclusions, are the following. Do wind power stations make noise and infrasound? Okay. Like any technical device, the windmill produces noise, but the conclusion should not be that the windmills must be removed at a distance equal to ten times their height, only that a good measurement system should be adopted concerning the impact of wind power plants and clear rules of the investment process. Is that what we find in this bill? [[Yes.]] We don't find it there. [[Yes, sir. You have to read it with understanding.]] Shouldn't the proposal be that we should not tax wind power plants with a tax that eliminates the cost-effectiveness of these investments, but based Polish energy on the concept of a mix of energy, especially in relation to other information concerning harmfulness? However, I think that actually our diwags are a substitute, ladies and gentlemen. In order to withdraw or change the records of this project, you will not be persuaded by the liquidation of the entire industry, the loss of jobs by 8,5,000. employees, liquidation of hundreds of small and medium-sized Polish companies, bankruptcy of small and medium-sized Polish investors, losses of state banks and energy companies, huge financial losses of local governments, of which you did not mention, loss of the budget, reduction of emissions. In fact, we know what's behind the Wind Energy and RES Act, because that's something that needs to be mentioned here. These changes are behind the new shape of energy policy, which is to be based on conventional energy and coal, to be based on debt, underinvested, dangerous, non-profitable, generating huge losses of mining industry, which is very important and necessary for our country in the coming years. But you, unfortunately, can't save him. You will not save, please, Polish coal, destroying RES, including wind energy, because ideology is dominant in your thinking, not substance thinking. Paradoxically, the destruction of RES works against Polish coal and Polish energy companies. [[You did not listen to the previous speeches, or you did not understand them.]] You guys don't understand this business at all. Polish business, Polish energy companies and of course we - all consumers - will pay for your ideas from the end of the 19th century. We're all gonna pay higher electricity bills, and that's gonna be the second increase in electricity prices after you introduce your TV tax. Once again, we call on you to compromise on this. The law is, of course, contrary to the Constitution and the law of the European Union and we will vote against it in this form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This performance was completely separate from reality.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u311	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u312	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's supposed to be okay, and it's bad. We were supposed to improve the bad solutions for windmill investments, for renewable energy, while we are even spoiling what was good, because wind energy started to develop very well in our country... [[Out in the wild.]] ...but it bothered somebody. I do not hide that in addition to the health arguments that appear, the type that farm animals will feel unwell... [[They're feeling better now.]] ...or that there are two windmill wings out there, that's a political goal. It's about reducing windmill investments. If we adopt this bill, we can't put windmills anywhere, which is probably not what this was all about, and that's not what we should care about. [[You will know that you will read this bill.]] Calm down, Member. I will also raise another point with regard to the Member. Then why did you do all this? Ladies and gentlemen, if it were so harmful... [[It's for the public's health.]] ...if the arguments you're making were true, the greatest mortality would be with the Germans, and it's probably much better there than it is with us. The second element. Look at what's going on with the other investments. We're building a road, cars run at a speed of 200 miles per hour, we're about to get our head blown off. Does anybody get sick because of that? Is someone closing the road? What do you do? You build another one, you widen that way so that more cars can go. They're bad for these cars? They hurt because there's noise, noise, pollution, and we're building. So let's look for good solutions here, not damage these investments. Ladies and gentlemen! We're sorry that the PiS position here is so volatile, unstable. I know that there was an election campaign and it had to be used in the election campaign, that it was one of the elements of the electoral campaign: and the local government, and then the parliamentary one, but I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of this material. It is dated 23 April 2007. And the Member is just in this picture, and she raises her hand up. And this material is about a good club called the PiS Parliamentary Club. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński was the head of this team who was working on it at the time. [[So what?]] Why? I'll read it to you, ladies and gentlemen. In second place, of course, after biogas plants, wind energy is in the hierarchy of renewable energy sources after biomass. When assessing the experience of Germany and Spain, this could be the most dynamically developing sector of the economy. The experience of these countries shows that this sector can become a factor in the development of exports of equipment and services both within and outside the European Union. [[Everything is correct, sir.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, why this change of approach? To make it funnier, I participated... [[It's new, not dismantleding trash from Germany.]] So let's bet on modern. The newer they are, the more modern they are, the less harmful they are. [[And that's how the rules we've prepared work.]] And through this bill, we're about to cause... [[Voice from the Chamber: Read this, Mr.]] ...that the devices will be older, imported from the cords. [[Read it. You're not gonna tell me anything stupid.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago I participated in a debate and one of the opponents of wind energy from the spa town, where protests take place, at the end of the discussion he says: Why put these old windmills in our village? It's better to build a modern factory. Let her produce in our spa town. It's a factory that will make noise, affect the environment... [[Mr President, we are asking you to do something about the project, not talk nonsense.]] ... it will be a good factory, and the windmill that will stand somewhere under the forest will be already damaging. So, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of this law is to completely reduce windmill investment. That wasn't the point, and we shouldn't let that happen. Let's look for good solutions... [[Mr President, you have not read this project.]] ...that will center all these things, not demagogically. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're putting a barrier here that's impossible to cross. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Not about that. It doesn't make sense.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u313	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I happen to be from a region where people protest against wild wind farms, breaking zoning plans, suspicions of corruption among local government officials and cutting out hectares of forests without permission. Therefore, I believe that the bill... My constituents have just welcomed the bill, which regulates it, which introduces certain rigors that investors need to take into account, and thus somehow civilizes the whole process of windmills, wind farms. On the other hand, on the part of the Member, there was such a statement that there is a danger that this law will stop. Well, I may say something that is not in line with current ideology, but I support this law, and even more so I will support a law that will completely eliminate wind farms. [[Great, bravo!]] Because when I hear wind farms... [[And the workstations, too.]] No bets. Read... [[Workstations have been wiped out.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, from where did you get the information that wind energy is the cheapest. She's the dearest. Guys, you're still living in some kind of Bolshevism. [[Applause]] [[We have completely different specialists.]] But you're living in some horrible ideology. After all, it's enough to reach out to the papers. Wind energy is the most expensive. [[And unstable.]] The cost of installing 1 MW is three times more expensive than coal energy. [[Yes? Businessmen say...]] Ma'am, you're the one listening to some professionals who haven't forgotten Marx and Engels yet. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a really good bill, and I'm asking that we just, speaking from this speaker, as a colleague of the Modern... Let us really stick to some facts, because this debate will not be like a debate at all. [[Yeah, let's stick to the facts.]] Ma'am, I'll be happy to provide you with data that shows the cost of energy. [[I love you, too.]] I'd love to. But don't say such nonsense from the Parliamentary Speaker. Wind energy is the most expensive. [[But don't tell me someone's talking nonsense.]] Wind energy is the most expensive. If anyone's trying to prove it to me, please prove it to me. In general, please - there is a representative of the Ministry - to provide Members with a study on this, what is the cost of installation, energy, what is the cost then, what is the use. But, ladies and gentlemen, think about it. There are not many regions in Poland where the wind blows so much that it resembles... something balanced somewhere. [[Geothermal is the cheapest.]] In the rest of the regions, it's on subsidies. If it hadn't been for European subsidies, if it hadn't been for this ideology, no one would have built a single windmill in Poland. And my great-grandfather had a windmill in Ukraine and it was the use of wind energy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That is why the Member is such a windmill specialist.]] [[The bustle, the fun in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u315	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. [[Turbines from Ukraine.]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recent years have been the time of expansion of many wind power companies in many parts of the country, including the Lublin Voivodeship. This expansion was often uncontrolled, accompanied by pathologies, disregard for public opinion, lack of public consultation. This was often done quietly, without publicity, and the residents were learning about everything too late in order to express their opposition. At the same time, recent years have also been an increase in the awareness of the inhabitants about the negative effects of windmills on human health, the deterioration of the comfort of their lives and work. This is due to the fact that a number of these investments are carried out at a very close distance, not exceeding several hundred meters, from buildings. The opinion of the inhabitants of these towns, where these powerful buildings were built, shows that the hardship of living in their neighborhood is so great that people think first of all about where to move out, because there is no way to live. In addition, the prices of land, land and real estate in the area are significantly reduced. [[And that's because of your bill.]] I have met with such opinions as an MEP many times. The only hope for people in many municipalities and towns who are determined to oppose the construction of windmills in close proximity to their homes is the law that we are debating. The desperate cry of people calls for it to be adopted as soon as possible. And my question, which is also the voice of these people: How is it possible that in a democratic country they were condemned to the nuisance of any comfort of life on a loved one, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the great-grandfather of the land, and the predecessors of the Civic Platform and the PSL saw nothing but the running business, and they forgot about the people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u317	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u318	Thank you very much. I have a question for you... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs Navel!]] [[It's me.]] Like Margaret, it's Margaret, one and the other goes. Excuse me, my dearest High House, Mr. Marshal. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u319	I'm asking for a new time. [[Okay, come on, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u320	You're welcome. [[Margaret. I thought it was me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The World Health Organization report on air quality is devastating for Poland. In this respect, 33 cities from the 50 most polluted cities of the European Union lie in our own country. Moreover, my native Żywiec took the first disdainful place, and Pszczyna placed just behind it. We need to take all possible steps to change the situation, implement clean energy solutions, promote renewable energy sources. However, the windmill law, against the background of other European countries, introduces very strong restrictions. They mean, for example, that small and medium windmills can be set at a distance of 1,5 to 3 km from the nearest buildings. In Poland, the location for windmills is only 5%. Wind power plants in Polish natural conditions are the cheapest renewable energy source. Mr President, you will not convince me that this energy is expensive. And you want to hinder their development. [[Please analyse the cost and grant data.]] I have a question for the Minister of the Environment, what steps he intends to take on energy policy, so that the next World Health Organization report will not be so devastating for Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, what's your plan for Poles to breathe clean air? This is extremely important. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u322	Thank you. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the 2014 NIK report, wind power plants are created against local communities and sometimes, often at the border of law. The report states that local authorities often agreed to power plants if operators provided donations to the municipalities or financed planning documentation. This is the case in my municipality of Namysłów, where an investor with the participation of the mayor plans to invest against social protests. The nearest windmill is to be located 500 m from the buildings. The whole investment is to be located in the prefield of Stobrawski Landscape Park. The will of residents who have an inalienable right to decide about their immediate surroundings is ignored. There is a situation with the borders of corruption. The mayor proposes a percentage share of the income from taxes to the community, whose residents will agree to the location in their immediate surroundings of wind farms. The contested law must safeguard the public interest and will of the inhabitants and counter the various types of corruption. Is that what's gonna happen? Ladies and gentlemen, this white and red windmill, which has been put here by the Modern Member, should also have a human face and no action concerning the location of wind farms should be against the will of the inhabitants. I have another question for Mr Mieczysław from PSL: have you ever seen windmills located under the forest? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The wall of the forest doesn't allow us to locate windmills. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u324	Thank you. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u325	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good change also affected renewable energy sources, touched windmills. [[Sure.]] By the way, this name is starting to get a little off-balanced, and it's going to be associated with a different meaning. [[Nothing's gonna help you. 15%. Relentless.]] We are debating a bill, which is another assassination of prominent and progressive people from Law and Justice... [[Clean hands.]] Yes. ...for the development of our country. Just because you agree to smoke the chimneys, just because you want to read the Bible by the candle doesn't mean that the whole nation wants it too. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you talking about, sir? It offends intelligence and common sense.]] Last year, the Civic Platform gave Poles the right to invest in renewable energy sources and even to earn money on renewable energy sources. When you took power, you immediately blocked it. Now. [[Your statement offends intelligence and common sense.]] Now you are consistently disassembling everything modern, ecological, developmental and innovative. The fact that you want to ban the construction of wind power plants in Poland is clear from this bill, while the fact that you want to eliminate existing power plants is simply a scandal on an extraordinary scale. Of course, in deep respect you will also have the fact that many changes to the bill are unconstitutional. Unfortunately, investors, especially foreign investors, have already noticed that you have to be afraid, because of the burns fleeing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your trademark is darkness and backwardness. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You are a threat to the development of Poland. [[Applause]] [[You don't have a squat, you don't have a squad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u326	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u327	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The existing noise measurement provisions have not ensured a meaningful assessment of the nuisance of the operation of wind power plants. Will that change? Will other nuisance tests be carried out, e.g. Infrasound or stroboscope effects? Does the resort have the latest expertise on harm to the health of infrasounds produced by wind gyms? Like what? Due to the ambiguous legal provisions and the lack of uniform case law, windmills were created in areas of high environmental value. That was the case, among other things. In the Podkarpacie. Will this change under the rules of the new law? So far there have been doubts about how the plans to build windmills were informed to local communities. [[They weren't.]] Many times the absence of residents at meetings was treated as consent, while meetings were informed in such a way that few could benefit from such an invitation. Has this problem been noticed in the new law? Because this way, because the residents were not informed to the end, there was corruption, there was the fact that the voivodeships of the communes, their families in their territories in agreement with the chiefs, truth or with others... [[That's not true.]] That is the truth, my fellow Member. That's the truth. ...that's where they put the windmills. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that gonna change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u328	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Bielecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u329	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Undoubtedly, the area we are discussing requires rapid regulation, because it cannot be that wind farms are almost residential. This situation has resulted in numerous speeches by citizens to Members and Senators. In 2013, the Supreme Audit Chamber carried out a review of compliance with the rules related to the location and construction of wind power plants on land and found a number of irregularities in this respect. Surely these issues need to be adjusted immediately. However, I would like to ask about the fees associated with the operation of wind power plants which appear in this law and which will be charged by the Technical Supervision Authority. As a result, it's so common every two years, it's a fee... [[Oh! That's a very good question.]] ...and why it's so high, about 1% value of the investment? Will not such a high price result in the fact that the economic activity of wind energy will simply become uneconomical? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u330	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A clarification question for the applicant. [[But I'm not a representative of the applicants, I'm sorry. I spoke on behalf of the club. Please specify, Mr. President.]] [[We're sorry because we like you so much.]] [[I do.]] In that case, the Member has a very good knowledge of the subject. I wanted to clarify the issues concerning the Technical Supervision Authority, because certain articles, as you said, were deleted. I wanted to ask: Is this the case with art? Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: The repair or modernisation of the technical elements of the wind power plant requires prior agreement with the Technical Supervision Authority? There is also a problem of this kind, which means repair or modernization. In the case of minor deficiencies, because such situations can often occur, will the approval of the Technical Supervision Authority also be required, or will it be possible to remove these minor deficiencies, taking into account normal operating rules? I would ask you very much to clarify these things, because many people ask that. They're also asking about this racket because 1% the value of the investment as regards the fee related to the Technical Supervision Authority, that is a very serious amount. [[70,000.]] And one more thing, a question for the ministry. How many wind turbine specialists today have a UDT, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what's the point of this action? Because if the UDT actually had that effect, then these specialists would have to be a giant amount, given that we have over 2,000. wind turbines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u332	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the work on the draft of our law, we received the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the need to notify the draft law in the European Commission. I have a specific question, Minister, whether this notification is already taking place in the European Commission, where it is at, and whether we already know more or less how Brussels will refer to the draft law. I'm not a euro-enthusiast myself, I don't count on much good there, but we have to count on their opinion, because if there's any problems, we're going to be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u334	Thank you. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I continued to ask my previous speaker about the notification, and I also wanted to ask about the fate of the complaint to the European Commission on the excess aid for co-incineration. Let me explain why I'm asking this question in the context of the windmill bill. As experts say, this new law, so-called. windmill, will certainly slow down the development of this market, it is estimated that somewhere for 6 to 10 years, and as experts say, I can say: Jagiellonian Institute, Mr.Prof. Marcin Roszkowski, this is a conscious decision of the government. I wanted to ask you, is it true that the government, as experts say, just wants to bet in the new energy policy mainly on co-combusting biomass in the field of RES, and isn't it so that everyone for saying so, a return, as I say, to the environmental medieval age will pay? Because if a complaint for co-incineration of biomass is successful, electricity producers will pay, and in fact end consumers, that is us. And for the second time, we will pay higher energy charges, because instead of renewable energy, wind energy, which is the cheapest in terms of renewable sources, Mr President. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Energy, we'll pay for more expensive energy. For co-burning biomass, maybe wood... [[Cheapest, as subsidised, Member.]] Yeah, 'cause it's from the Bialowieza Forest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u336	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years actually there have been and many wind power plants, also near my Toruń unfortunately. A few years ago people were even happy, even those who liked it very much, that they were creating new ones, because it's the same as in the West, right, because in Germany, in France, as they were going to Italy, they saw a lot of it, so it's going to be the same for us. Now that they've become common in our country, it's less appealing, even to those people who used to be enthusiasts. They rise too close, the inhabitants feel threatened, no one asks their opinion, they often arise in the wild. Someone here said that even suspicions are often about corruption, right, in the environment. Yes, sir. I have a question for the applicant: Will the proposed changes make the procedure for the construction of wind power plants transparent, secure the right to the expression of property owners located in a closer and further neighbourhood, or will it simply be safer? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u338	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u339	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for you, Mr. and Mrs. PiS... [[Law and Justice.]] ...knowing that the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, sent us all a letter, and perhaps you did not read it, in which he stressed the non-compliance of the draft law with EU directives, wrote about the lack of non-discrimination, that the criteria were stricter than the other energy sources, as well as that there was no justification for setting the requirement for a distance of ten times. I do not know, I have the impression that such obvious discrimination despite such a letter of yours - the minister - raises the question whether, by chance, the draft of this law has been subjected to unhealthy lobbying of companies or photovoltaics, either producing biofuels or producing biomass. You're welcome to respond. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u340	Thank you. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a pity that Mr Sanocki is no longer here, who claimed that energy from windmills is not the cheapest energy. The fact that the production of energy from windmills is the cheapest of RES... [[At the appropriate level of the grant, Madame.]] ...you can read in the Impact Assessment, Mrs, the regulations, in the RES Act, which we will update tomorrow, so I am referring Mr Sanocki to this reading. According to energy analysts, wind farms are the cheapest renewable source of electricity. I have a question: Will not blocking further investments cause the production of green energy to be produced by new wind farms to be generated... [[Transfer from...]] Don't disturb me, Member. Mr. Marshal won't pay attention? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u342	Yes, yes, I ask the Member not to interfere with the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u343	...through other, much more expensive renewable sources? Have the losses been estimated, the second question raised by the municipalities for the loss of real estate tax and participation in the PIT and CIT tax, which could be paid by the owners of the newly created wind system? If they have been estimated, please state the amount of these losses. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u344	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill raises serious concerns for local authorities as well as investors. The introduction of such strict restrictions on the location of wind power plants has serious economic and social consequences and undermines citizens' confidence in the law. Why are renewable energy sources, including wind power plants, widely used in other countries? In Poland, however, the PiS does everything to keep it to a minimum, and best to eliminate it completely. It uses arguments that are not supported by any studies. It wrongly introduces anxiety and fear of these investments. [[Madam, please read the results of the studies.]] It is not only unprofessional, I stress, but harmful to the Polish economy. What is the government's position on this matter? The answer to this question is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u346	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight with windmills is sometimes very strange, funny, triggering the emotions we have here, but I'd like to ask you about specific things, Minister. Are there calculations, or do you have calculations when it comes to Poland? What percentage of Poland will meet the conditions regarding where devices can be placed, wind power plants, windmills after the adoption of this law? Are there places like this? What's the percentage? [[There they are, the coast belt.]] [[It must be a distracted investment, you know that.]] I'm asking the Minister. Minister, it was a question for you, because the Member here has already begun to answer me. I'd like to be specific, expert, Minister. My second question: What will happen to the energy companies of the Treasury? There are also windmills which met this need, according to which RES was to constitute a certain percentage. Is that gonna touch these companies? Is it true that, as a result of this, energy from windmills - the current one and the planned one - will be increased co-incinerating there, because this plan must be implemented and these assumptions must be made? Is that true? That's the kind of charge that comes up, so I'd like to hear it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u348	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have some comments on the proposed amendments from the committee's report on the Wind Power Investment Act. On the contrary of the amendment that was brought forward, I would like to call things by name. Wind power plants aren't wind parks. I am glad that there is finally an order in the field of wind energy. The construction and operation of the wind power plant should, however, be governed by the Construction Law. The location of wind power plants has so far been thoughtless, often violated by the vital interests of local communities. In general, officials who participated in the decision-making of the location of the windmills benefited. I have a question about the location: How does the determination of distance and location in the proposed solution apply to solutions in neighbouring countries? But will not those that will be applied be too restrictive? Thank you very much. [[I'm the one who told you.]] [[But the question is for the Minister, Madam Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u350	Thank you. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. First of all, thank you to the rapporteur, because the draft law, as he pointed out in his report, reduces or ends with certain bad practices as regards the granting of permits for the construction of windmills. That's one thing. Secondly, we are guided by the interests of citizens, taking care of their health. Here's a question for the Minister. Firstly, have you considered the health aspect in the drafting of the bill? As many studies have shown, even scientific, in countries where wind turbines have been operating for centuries, wind turbine syndrome has been created - an extremely dangerous phenomenon affecting health, causing insomnia, depression, and as a result diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers, etc. Whether the Ministry was also in the interest of citizens who have buildings near the wind power plant, because - as the research shows in these countries, such as the United States, France, Denmark, Sweden - buildings located within a radius of about 1.5 km from the wind power plant lose value up to 60% initial price? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u352	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Supreme Audit Chamber in its report leaves no illusions as to the irregularities concerning the location, the construction of wind power plants so far. This law introduces a number of regulations, primarily regulates the legal order related to the spatial planning plan and the location of the power plant, but also defines the technical oversight office which will supervise the operation of the power plant. What is very important, in my opinion, to this office will be reported all dangerous damage to wind power plants. The question is, is the resort planning to detail all these dangerous damage to the power plant in the form of a regulation so that residents who live near wind power stations can feel safe? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u354	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The time of chaos, the time of construction mess, caused by social conflicts, or finally the time of scandalous assignment of class I, II or III lands under the location of windmills ends. It's just a pity it took so many years for us to see this project that's being processed today. Let me just remind you that the first cases connected with the construction of the new windmills were sent to our parliamentary offices seven and eight years ago. This could have been done before, only lacked will, no willingness to deal effectively with this subject. High Izbo! We have heard here that jobs will be wiped out, that there will be no workplaces associated with this industry. I would like to ask you how many of these workplaces associated with this industry have been created in Poland so far. How many jobs did one windmill create? [[I do.]] It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that one windmill generates virtually no workplace... [[What about tax revenue?]] ...and practically all windmills which so far came to Poland, were old devices, allowed to be used conditionally, which at night came to Poland by transports not known from... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Under the cover of the night.]] [[Voice from the room: Please remain calm.]] ...though it doesn't seem like it. There were almost 90% of them. [[What are you saying?]] There's something else I'd like to ask you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's 5,000. MW, which at the moment we have in Poland from the windmill, is approx. 2 thousand. Windmills. How many of those 2,000. windmills created in Poland were built again, and how many... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u356	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u357	Dear Marshal, Mr. Speaker! What you said is not true, because in Poland it is not only old windmills. [[Most of it, 90%.]] No, not 90%. It's a lie. Let us be clear: it is a lie. [[Overwhelming majority.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciate your concern for those who, as you call them, are in the influence of wind power stations, but I really can't understand you. 10 million Poles, please, in this country live within the range of noise sources that are harmful to health, infrasounds harmful to health. These are people who live just by the roads, by the highways, by the normal streets. Don't you think about them? [[Let's go down the road.]] Let's go down the road. You don't think about people, of which 20,000. As a result of the most poisonous in our country, air dies of various diseases, lung cancer. [[Yes, sir.]] [[But we think.]] Do you think it's funny? $20,000. people are dying of lung cancer because of air pollution. 40,000. people get sick because of contaminated air. Do you even care? [[Yes, I do.]] Will you eliminate the only really and most efficient source of clean energy? [[You're missing the truth, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in Norway, I would like to show you this, the value of the investment - 1.5 billion - the largest number of wind farms, the largest investment, 140 thousand. holdings. They don't mind, ladies and gentlemen, nor does the beautiful Norwegian landscape with windmills, nor the clean air. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You take us back to the 19th century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u358	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill under investigation in a country whose energy is based on coal must be astonished and will certainly create a great surprise in the world and in Europe. The prospective targets for the share of renewable energy in the country's energy balance are now becoming unattainable. The question arises whether your minister and Prime Minister Morawiecki are also enthusiastic about this law. How is it supposed to achieve its plan if another law is transcending economic goals? That the economy will lose billions, it's obvious, and that the labour market will lose thousands of jobs, it's also obvious. [[Don't play Cassandra, because you're not doing so well.]] But did you explain and do you count how many tens of thousands, if not more, of property owners due to restrictions on the construction and use of their property, because you stretched the neighborhood issues up to 2 km? [[They've already lost it because of the windmills.]] One more sentence. In my district, the village of Wilków, where there are windmills, is 17, thanks to which the possibility of investing was regained, thanks to the network of roads that accompany windmill investments, farmers gained excellent access to their fields. In fact, everyone's bragging about this change, and what he said was, [[♪ The bell ♪]] My previous speaker, Mr Stawiarski, is not true. The windmills will not be built in the Community of Minds where people do not want it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u360	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! When I listen to the representatives of the Civic Platform, ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed. You're besieged to windmill lobbying. We're giving in, too, but we're giving in to our voters, who are millions of... [[Tens of millions, hundreds.]] ...and who come to our Members' Offices on this matter and ask why this bill comes into force so late. [[Let's close the road.]] I would like to ask the Minister if it is true that all of us in electricity charges are paying for wind energy, because as far as I know it is. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed wind energy is the most expensive, and this is shown by all expertise and analysis. I have one more question. Did anyone consider the issue of windmill disposal when drafting this law? [[Oh, yeah.]] The cost of disposal of the windmill after operation may be higher than the profits during the entire period when it produced electricity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] [[Let's cut 'em out. Let's tear 'em down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u362	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Changes were made to the draft law on investments in wind power plants. The law very critically regulates the distances that need to be kept from the nearest residential buildings. These regulations complicate the completion of already started projects near air farms or those still in the planning phase, but already to such an advanced extent that their continuation entails additional costs associated with the reorganisation of plans. In addition, it is problematic for landowners whose land is losing value due to the lack of possibility of housing there. What actions will be taken to address these problems? In addition, the European Commission is working on a draft environmental labelling for food, similar to those already existing on refrigerators. It is just finishing its work on harmonising the method on which the environmental impact of products will be determined. Products produced in Poland will be worse against the background of countries where nuclear energy is popular or renewable energy sources. In addition, environmental assessment costs will fall on companies. Experts estimate that only for the environmental audit alone an entrepreneur will have to pay up to 50,000. zł. Polish food will be referred to as second category food, and we by TTIP will eat plastic, not Polish food. The EU will define Polish food as a second category product because we are generating energy from black gold, i.e. from coal. What direction are we going? Why do we want to use technology, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which developed countries give up? For huge sums, we buy a technique that was modern 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions, one in the context of Mrs Chmiel's statement. A rhetorical question, but I'll ask it. [[Oh...]] Can one be regarded as a hasty draft law, which came into effect on 19 February this year, which was referred to the first reading on 10 March, whose first reading took place on 16 March, which was presented on 30 March and whose second reading takes place on 18 May, 3 months after the entry? That's the first question. [[It's very short for such a bill.]] Question two, actually... well, question two. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, who have fought so hard for renewable energy, in view of being the only wind power stations, realise that we are dealing with sources such as biogas plants, biomass plants, photovoltaic plants... [[We know because this is the bill.]] ...wind power plants and water power plants? And how was it possible that in the last 5 years of government, the PO's installed capacity in water power plants increased by 37 MW and the installed capacity in subsidised wind power plants increased from 1600 to 5400 MW? Does it have anything to do with the fact that the deputy minister's wife was on the board of the windmill company's supervisory board? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Which one?]] [[Gawłowski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u366	You have the floor of Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeah, it's over. Corruption's about to end, mob deals... [[Voices from the room: Ooh!....]] [[Voice from the room: Yes...]] Yes, yes, honourable Members of the Civic Platform... [[Yeah, it should be over by now.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...there was wind corruption in the country, she was on the agenda. [[To the D.A.'s office and arrest him!]] More than one third of the municipalities in the case of wind investments located on local government sites or other persons who had an impact on the decision-making process were suspected of corruption. [[Into the dungeons!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: How many convictions, how many convictions?]] And that's the truth. I understand that the Civic Platform has been good so far when such words have been said: "Do whatever you want, but it will end. [[But please don't bring Oatmeal into this, because he's a very good man.]] [[Do you have the evidence?]] It will end when this bill comes into force, because it cannot be that citizens have suffered so far. The proposals made by the PiS to civilise the issue of power plants have great public support, whether you like it or not. [[We'll live, we'll see.]] And I have a question for the Minister about the economy, about the use of EU money. On what scale was this money intended for the Polish economy for the construction of wind farms by foreign corporations? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[It's bad now, isn't it?]] [[With this corruption, it's without evidence. Don't say that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u368	Thank you. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A thousand associations against wind power plants that have been formed in our country. And who else? The Ombudsman's rights against wind power plants, too. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha! How's that?]] Finally, we have a government, a government of law and justice that has dealt with a topic such as the energy policy of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this subject has not been addressed in the last few years at all. And this law that we are talking about here today, which we are debating, is one of the elements of this energy policy. [[I wonder who built the gasport.]] And I wanted to ask you a question. Is it true - not so long ago there has been a meeting of the Energy and Treasure Commission - that the presidents of the largest energy companies in our country, including PGE, our Polish company, are not afraid to introduce this law at all, because they will continue to invest in wind power plants? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u370	Thank you. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe at first I can show you how much the village is protesting today. So much, ladies and gentlemen, this is the map of Poland. Today, ladies and gentlemen, this is, bagatela, 627 villages against 9372 windmills. This is a social voice against the construction and location of windmills as they have so far. What did it look like? In 2010, the municipality of Jedlinsk was founded, built without any public consultation, you can say, quietly, five windmills. [[What does it mean to be quiet?]] Five years later, an investor arrives, brings a proposal to install 20 windmills in the municipality. And what does the local community say about that? A few thousand protests against the construction are now being formed, ladies and gentlemen. Why? Because the neighbors, the people who live next to these five existing windmills, have experienced the benefits of living right next to the windmills. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it was they who motivated the others to make sure that more such windmills in the municipality of Jedlinsk did not arise. Today we also respond to this voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u372	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u373	...and the appeal of the residents. That's why, Mr... [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u374	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm reporting to you on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Actually, I think everybody's been talking about NIK today, and I'm probably talking about NIK a little bit too. NIK has raised a number of reservations and doubts about the wind farms that have been built so far. And reservations, in my opinion, additionally because I consulted protesting residents, not only those who protest against newly located farms, but also those who already exist, because today they are being sent from office to office and no one feels like helping them... Locating windmills on the land of persons associated with the authorities, conditionalizing a positive decision from - so to say gently - the funding of the municipality or its projects by the investor, the process of setting up farms was often carried out under conditions of conflict of interest, lack of transparency and corruption. We've talked about this, too. And a few questions. Can the consultation be called the fact that several hundred people are signed under protest against the location of windmills, but the authority that has already agreed with the investor throws this list in the basket? Whether consultation can be called the issue of a ban on the signing of such a list by officials, schools, etc.? [[Exactly. That's what it looks like.]] Can consultation be called the comments of the executive authority to those who protest so as not to bite the hand that feeds them? Do real estate near windmills gain or lose value? Is wind energy the only renewable energy available? [[It's not.]] Because this is what many Members have said, especially the opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's how wind power plants have been treated over the last few years. And was there no discrimination between other forms of RES due to the concreteisation of the market for windmills alone? And is it true that there have been cases that for manifestations...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u376	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u377	...against this bill brought people under... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u378	Thank you, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u379	As a corrigendum, may I? As a corrigendum, I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS... [[Mr. Marshal, is anybody in session here?]] Yes, with a formal request...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u380	Is that a formal proposal or a correction?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u381	What do you prefer? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u382	Okay, Member, let's be serious. [[Someone's running this session? I'm having my doubts about a long way off.]] So, what do you say, Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u383	Okay, as a corrigendum. Thank you very much. In the title of corrigendum. I wanted to explain to my colleagues in PiS - because I don't think you understood our position, the Civic Platform, on this bill - that we are in favour of regulating it. Don't convince us that it's wrong now, because it really needs to be regulated, because things have gone too far and it has to be mastered. On the other hand, your law is a bad law in this direction. And even the Minister himself stressed that it is incompatible with the European Union directives. That's the problem. This bill is bad. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You had time, eight years to bring in a good one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u384	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u385	Mr. Marshal, except for the limit, because this remark concerns the procession. I think I'm gonna be the expressor of a lot of us. I think this debate is too short. [[Exactly.]] Really, that's a problem you can't discuss for five minutes on behalf of the clubs. This is actually very strange.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u386	You're wasting your time, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u387	You already turned me on, but it's on behalf of everyone, really. And also...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u388	There is no such thing as time, Mr. President. [[Unacceptable questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u389	Excuse me. Question for the rapporteur. Does this law really block, prohibit, or just limit the development and expansion of windmills? Isn't that a late reaction to American freedom, unhonored and many years of this, and today we have the result? I understand that she's going far, that she's sharp, but that's just the effect and reaction to social expectations. [[Disruption, like, eight years.]] It's a question about money. Namely, I want to ask very clearly because I protest against lies. It is not true that this law bankrupts existing wind farms, absolutely. Without subsidies, there would be no profitability. [[We'll see about that.]] It weakens, worsens economic performance, while it gives concrete benefits to local governments - 2% from rotors and generators - it is about 100,000. from the windmill. [[No.]] Yeah, yeah, it's in my finger. We need to check it out carefully and not talk out of this tribune of things that aren't true. [[I think we're gonna stop liking each other.]] And that's why these 36 months are a record that allows me to vote for this law with full conviction. And 10 times, in fact, it's hard, that makes it more ambitious [[♪ The bell ♪]] building new windmills. [[Ambitious.]] And more demanding. Yeah, 'cause it's gonna be hard to find places where these standards are gonna be met. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You can't.]] [[They're just not here.]] [[They have been designated for 10 years in the concept of spatial development.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u390	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern. [[What about the fishermen?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The discussion is going on in the courtroom for good, and I don't know if I can stop this discussion or get involved in it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u392	Could Mrs Paluch and Mr Rutnicki go cockroaches to continue the discussion without interfering with the questioning? [[Oh, it's dangerous.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u393	I think that would be good. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is proof of this, this debate, this bill, that we are falling, as usual from extreme to extreme - from a law that actually contained certain gaps, to such a very strict solution, which will certainly bring much, much damage. On the other hand, I have a question for the Minister, very specific. I would like to ask, what were the reasons for changing the rules of the game during this game? I mean, what were the reasons for the tax increase on existing installations, because that's always worrying. It's always a bad sign, because we don't work as a country of investment location, because investors expect a lot of stability of the law, a lot of stability of the solutions we're introducing, of course I'm thinking of a property tax that goes up four times, and I'm thinking about a paratax, which is a fee to the Technical Supervision Authority. I remind you that this paratax is also to be covered by new installations, which really do not yet need to be reviewed. Same thing if we buy [[♪ The bell ♪]] A new car, two years doesn't require a review, so I think the analogy is valid here. I ask for a specific answer to this question, including in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u394	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the windmill problem has been burning for many years, especially for people from rural and small-town centres. I am a member of the Radom land and I would like to draw your attention to one point. In the municipality of Iłża, a beautiful windmill, located on route No 9, in recent years, 30 wind turbines have grown, which have significantly ruined this magnificent Mazowieckie landscape. Unfortunately, the mayor, surprisingly, the mayor of the Polish People's Party, who has the function of managing this commune, agreed to this type of activity. The municipality received a considerable amount from the windmill company, according to the conditions of this municipality, 120 thousand. zł... [[Oh, what a twisty sum.]] ...plus an additional 15,000. PLN for the preparation of studies of conditions and directions of spatial development of the city and the municipality of Iłża. Of course, this company was granted permission to set wind turbines. There is nothing to say about the fact that the transport companies that carried these turbines, the equipment, destroyed local, rural, poorly hardened roads, the dear Member, unfortunately led these roads to ruin. You say we live in a state of law, and people protested, raised 17,000. signatures to oppose this type of activity. These are eyewitnesses from the village of Iłża in the war. Mazovian. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it time to put an end to this type of practice, this type of activity, that companies are sponsoring municipalities, so they get a position and take advantage of it, and they get positive decisions? [[Applause]] [[That's not true, because he went to prison.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u396	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, I'm aware... [[The favourite.Gazet Wyborcza, I refer to the Gazeta Wyborcza.]] ...that there have actually been irregularities in recent times, there's nothing to hide, that some windmills have actually been built in places where they shouldn't be built. On the other hand, the fact that they arise means that this is really the need, and because of investment, and taking a certain investor risk, but also because of this, I would like to remind everyone that by 2020 Poland is expected to provide around 20% energy from renewable sources. [[15.]] Right now, we're at about 15%. We've got four years left. That's a question for the Minister. Minister, I'd like to know how we're supposed to meet these conditions. We're talking about money here, and this is unimaginable money if we pay the penalty for not meeting these conditions. It is known that at the moment hydrological conditions in Poland are such that hydropower plants may not be enough, even new ones that are being prepared. If a fairly restrictive law, if we are not looking at it, this law is restrictive, we limit the possibility of producing electricity, renewable electricity from windmills, then I ask where we are looking for these renewable sources. Is this supposed to be photovoltaics, or is this supposed to be biomass? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to know what government has the idea of meeting the 20% condition. in 2020 Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u398	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy of Minister Andrzej Piotrowski. [[Oh! It's a tough job.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A lot of questions that have been asked here aren't in the power department's hands, so let me focus on those issues that concern engineering matters or directly related to engineering matters. Therefore, I would like to start with the combined low-emission issue and the opportunity that windmills would give to reduce low-emission emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, low emissions are caused by burning in individual homes. This is burning in coal furnaces, which does not mean that it is burning coal. We do not have statistics on this subject, but we have a lot of information that old clothes are burned, rags transported in large quantities to Poland from better developed countries. They are mixed with oil and burned in kilns. This is, unfortunately, the cheapest fuel at the moment, and it is also a fuel generating huge pollution. The way to deal with this problem is not to deepen the decarbonisation process, I note, the low emission process in Poland, because one and the other is not correlated. Currently, professional power plants are still not as clean as the latest standards for 2030, but no longer emit such amounts of dust and pollution; in fact, a large part of the blocks are starting to come closer to the standards that have been set for 2020. Unfortunately, we are dealing with different owners here. I'm sorry to say, for example. many of the blocks in the hands of French companies do not meet the expectations, do not meet the requirements for 2020, even though they have recently been modernized - they have been performed only partially. We must therefore realise that energy policy is a challenge. Actually, we're going to be working on a good solution right now to eliminate low emissions. According to the Ministry, it is not enough to ban it, because it is not because people want to pollute the environment that people use such measures, but simply because of poverty, because they cannot afford other mechanisms too much. And that's what we have to solve. This is a very important issue for all of us, also for those who think that because they live in cities, they do not have this problem. He is, because it's the air, the dust, the pollution all over the country. Ladies and gentlemen, here are some questions about whether we're betting on co-incinerating or if there's been a co-incineration notification. I am a little surprised that, as a negative thing, co-combustion has been described by a Member of the People's Party, he would seem interested in farmers being able to deliver biomass either as waste or as specially produced. Ladies and gentlemen, it is never - or at least not known to the resort - that the Commission has not questioned co-incineration as a mechanism to ensure a certain level of energy generated by RES. This process, which took place, was a process resulting from a complaint made by RES providers in a different way and was not finally decided by the Commission. In fact, there were reservations. as to the reliability of the process of checking how much energy, how many of these, let's call it yes, the biomass elements have been mixed with conventional fuel. This case is at the moment not the subject of much activity on the part of the Commission, that the new structures for co-incinerating these doubts which were previously resolved. The problem is elsewhere. The grant of RES has made biomass prices relatively high and coal smoking is therefore actually more attractive. If there is no aid, there is at this point no mechanism to preserve the economic advantage. However, the expectations of the agricultural sector are quite strongly aroused. This is not a trivial thing, and you must be aware that in a serious part of the rural environment - that is, this large part of the Polish population - there is a expectation that the possibility of using biomass, whether in biogas plants or for co-incineration, depending on the type of these substrates, will be restored in some dynamic way. In fact, this is one of the elements that we want to take into account in energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen, RES energy charges. RES energy wouldn't exist if it wasn't for subsidies. At the moment, there is no single source that could generate energy from renewable sources that would be comparable in price to conventional energy or nuclear energy. Nowhere in the world, even in places where there is perfect sunshine, even in places where there is an excellent wind situation, has not yet been able to break the barriers to profitability with existing technologies. Moreover, it may be worth adding that for some technologies, e.g. such as photovoltaics, i.e. - so popularly called - solar batteries, just a few years ago we managed to break another barrier, whose consciousness probably does not exist much of you. The amount of energy used to produce these photovoltaic silicon cells has now become actually less than the amount of energy that these photovoltaic cells will give back throughout their lifetime. This happened only a few years ago, and before that the balance was unfortunately negative. Of course, it can be said that this energy consumed in the production of photovoltaic cells has been consumed in China, and given back, for example. in Poland or in other European countries, but we live on the same globe, so we should take into account that at the end of the day it evens out there somewhere. We also need to take these things into account when shaping politics. But we're talking about windmills here. Ladies and gentlemen, windmills and jobs. Of course, there is a fairly noticeable sector that creates jobs also around the installation of windmills. What is done in Poland and what is done abroad? In Poland concrete pedestals are undoubtedly made, on which windmills can be placed. They are made, not all of them, in metal grids, which strengthen the structure, allow to build some kind of platform. Elevators can be built, fittings can be built, windmills are connected to the network, there is also control, most often imported, but there are also national technologies that would allow this kind of thing to be realized. Imported items with the highest level of know-how: turbines, propellers. [[Dearest.]] It's an expensive component, yes. In fact, it's... At this point, I am not ready, and we can check it out and tell you if there is such an interpellation, but this is important if not the dominant part of investment costs. On the other hand, with regard to energy prices of individual RES, this question cannot be answered without knowing the characteristics, not knowing how costs are occurring over time, because we are talking about investment costs and we also need to talk about operating costs. RES sources such as windmills or photovoltaics are a significant investment cost, while operating costs are most often very small for a simple reason - a built windmill requires maintenance, but does not require providing something, because it is supplied by the wind, i.e. by nature. So every now and then the technicians have to check his condition, but this cost is, compared to the investment, neglected. Therefore, it is said that these are sources of zero energy cost and perhaps some of you misinterpret this. Because, of course, someone assumes that the money invested in the operation of the windmill will return to him. There are no miracles in economics, are there? Therefore, on the other hand, this windmill, to be placed, requires a subsidy, because the price of sold energy on the electricity exchange would not be enough to ensure that, in the time expected by investors, e.g. 10 years, paid the cost of investment. And that's the mystery of whether it's the cheapest or the most expensive. If we try to look at investment costs and operating costs together, we have one more thing to take into account. Well, from a ministry's point of view, we have to provide access to energy whenever citizens or companies need energy for their life or economic processes. Sources of RES, let's say these mainstream, most popular, so windmills or photovoltaics, provide energy when they can. Therefore, their characteristics are sometimes not precisely defined as unstable, and correctly said: they are not available. Someone might say, okay, conventional coal power plant or nuclear power plant. It doesn't supply power all year round either. Well, yeah, he's got some kind of maintenance break, but it's just a few weeks, and he's this is usually a planned break, which is very important in the energy balance, because it is relatively easy to predict at this point that this energy will be replaced by other generation units. In the case of windmills, of course, there are weather forecasts, but it should be assumed that depending on the height, depending on the technological level, from the design it is so that these highest windmills reach these higher air layers and there this wind occurs more often than in the lower ones, and usually the higher the windmill columns are the higher the power, so that's how it works. However, it can be said that at present, in the case of the largest three megawatts, we are dealing with an annual availability of thirty-several percent, so for almost two-thirds of the year the statistical windmill does not work, does not generate energy and at that time we need to run other sources. If it were like we were dating, I don't know that the windmill is producing from here to this month, and then we start another source, it would be a solution that's pretty easy to apply. Unfortunately, it's like the wind blows, then there's a break, in that time you have to run another source, then it starts to blow again, and right now this source has electricity. And here it's nice. This shows an example of such extreme situations. Well, at the beginning of this year, on 1 January in Germany, which have the huge potential of windmills, almost half of their generation capacity, such nominal ones, can come from renewable energy sources, this 1 January was practically put into the network of zero renewable energy. There was no sun, no wind. In turn a week or two ago was the situation that 95% energy in Germany was energy produced by renewable sources, mainly windmills. This was the moment when conventional sources were placed in a very difficult situation, namely in accordance with German law they had to give priority to RES. That meant they should be turned off. Ladies and gentlemen, the coal plant, once it's turned off, is stabilized for a few weeks. It's not like we can turn it off and then we say, okay, I'll turn it on in an hour. Therefore, we must be aware that this conventional power plant... The same is true of nuclear power plants. You can turn them off, only turning them back on is a process that's going on. It is usually possible to cope with this by reducing the capacity of conventional sources, but this usually causes them to work at the wrong work point for which they were designed. What does that mean? That means they're burning coal because they have to keep some minimum traffic there, so they're generating costs, burning this coal in ways that don't optimally. Therefore, emissions of carbon dioxide and other substances are significantly higher than in normal mode of operation. They generate costs, but we can't turn them off, because it could happen, just like January 1st, that none of the renewables work. So, if you look at the cost of renewable energy, you have to say that the more this source is labile, the greater the cost of providing energy at a time when it is not delivered. If, therefore, we want to look at the total cost of energy, let us not just look at the cost of building and maintaining a given source. This is a statement that we must take into account, because we are all of us, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of whether it is the governing party or the opposition, responsible to the citizens for ensuring that they are able to use energy. Comments on the UDT, the Technical Supervision Office, whether there are specialists there, whether these are excessive charges, as the resort sees. Ladies and gentlemen, specialists from the UDT even under the previous coalition - you may have some doubts about this, because this was done in a luxury hotel on the Baltic Sea coast - they were training just how to study windmills. Did this training prepare them? That is precisely what we are not able to say today, but if the Sejm adopts this law, the Minister of Energy will be obliged to issue a regulation in which he will determine how This is to be measured. This is where we intend to exploit the Polish scientific potential. I've already conducted preliminary consultations, for example. with the Institute of Aviation, which, when it comes to turbines, is one of the leading centres in Poland, and I have to say that I am very satisfied with these discussions, because initially it seems that we will be able to eliminate possible pathologies, which means that someone who carries out tests will write in a report something different than what was the actual state, because the process will be able to close electronically in the form of sensors, laptops with which to measure the condition of the turbine. Therefore, we hope that we will be able to eliminate a thing that today seemed to be a very easy method, let's call it, taking everyone, namely a new housing, and in the middle a windmill from the demobile. Why is it so important? Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the first quarter of this year, the installed new capacity in windmills increased by 800 MW. In order for you to be aware of the size of this number, I will say that the total quantity in wind turbines in Poland is 5600. These three months are almost 20%. Consultation with turbine manufacturers shows that of course they saw increased interest from Poland, but such a number of turbines They couldn't deliver, so they couldn't have been new turbines. Warehouses? Question: "What continent?" [[But it's the result of our bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we'll check it out. If someone makes a false statement, the consequences are known. I ask you, therefore, one more thing, because one of you has raised the question that if there is a new car, it has a certain long period before a first review called a popular registration review is necessary. Well, in the case of windmills, there's no way. whether it is not practiced to deliver them, let's call it, together and in one piece. We are dealing with a certain installation, which is mounted on the spot, so there is no one responsible manufacturer, there is the installer. This installer may be a small company, maybe not a craftsman, but not necessarily employing a large number of people, not necessarily with large capital, and therefore vulnerable to penalties. On the other hand, we see no reason to order such activities to be carried out only by large companies. 'Cause what's the point? We therefore assume that it is much better at this point to assume that it is possible to have a reliable control, supported by the scientific authority of the institute, if such a procedure and equipment are prepared. [[It's gonna take some time.]] It takes time for everything, but as an engineer I will say that I have carried out much more complex analyses and developed systems in individual months, so that we do not fear that we need years for this, all the more so because, let's call it, technical and scientific components are not the subject of research. Rather, it is a matter of gathering this knowledge in a particular place. Ladies and gentlemen! One of you said we have a 20% RES obligation. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you sometimes translate the former password "3 x 20" into Polish commitments. This is not the case with RES participation in energy production in Poland. This ratio, according to the Polish commitment, amounts to 15,85% , and the obligation is 15% . Ladies and gentlemen, information for everyone who's known for their problems. At the moment from the point of view of installed RES power and from the point of view of energy sold by RES we are in 2018. I looked at the calendar, it's still 2016. Therefore, I really don't see any reason why we should say that there is a dramatic situation here. These final parts of the percentage points that we have left to complete can be completed in a number of different ways. I think it's worth pointing out one more thing. They were made by the previous team running some kind of energy-sourced plans. The energy currently generated from wind turbines is far more than the plan was intended. I will not present this calculation to you today, but if you are interested, this data is easily available, possibly the Ministry can reply to this. So that I think these are the important elements that I would like to bring up here today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u400	No, you weren't mentioned by name. [[Voice from the room: There was no name.]] [[There was no name, sir, you're abusing the rules of procedure.]] [[He's not PiS.]] Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Bogdan Rzonca's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the applicants, I would like to say a few sentences. Well, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for the good discussion. As you can see, Law and Justice are not afraid to make difficult laws that were not in the previous term. We're responding to public demand. There are more than 600 associations of people affected by just building wind farms. These people are among us, living with a problem, and that's why. We've taken this work of the bill. Also, consider the fact that this was not an invention of law and justice. The Supreme Board of Control points to very large negligence in the situation of wind farms in the future. The last report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of April this year is very eloquent. The key issue there is the lack of public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the key issue. That's what you've done many times. I'm sorry, maybe it wasn't you, it was the investors who didn't consult the public on their investments. This is a huge problem, as the Supreme Audit Chamber draws attention to. In this last report, it's very eloquently written. The previous report was similar. I would also like to remind you that the Ombudsman was very critical about the construction of wind farms. You often raise such a question that there is no tangible evidence that windmills are harmful. On 9 March this year, the Polish Renewable Energy Association organized an open conference at which we were with the Minister. A representative of the National Institute of Public Health - State Hygiene Institute - you will admit that these are not PiS institutions, because it was March 9th of this year - clearly said... [[And it was different in April.]] ...that the situation of wind farms should be within 2 km and then, you can say, it's quite okay. As if to confirm this - the state probably knows the resolution of the Bavarian Supreme Court last week - the Bavarian court admitted that it is constitutional for wind farms to be built within 2 km of the people's headquarters in Bavaria. That was last week. If you're running against this bill or are you worried that we're gonna try to assassinate wind farms, then take these issues into account. There is no law and justice - and that is what I want to say - any attempt on the construction of wind farms. We are very pleased that there are very good investors. Interestingly, those good wind farm investors who have invested on the basis of spatial planning are not afraid of this law at all. They say it's okay. They have excellent equipment, very good technologies and they say there's no problem. Those who brought in junk, so-called. The junkyards, they've got a problem. These people have a problem actually, and this problem will probably come up again. Of course, today Anna Paluch has tabled some amendments. Please also take these into account, because here we are also meeting certain social expectations, these amendments are very important for this law. You will also learn that these amendments simply meet these expectations. So we have a whole series of very important events from the point of view of formation of the provisions of the law and good discussion, a transparent discussion with all parties to this social process. Thank you very much for taking the decision to take part in the discussion. Thank you very much to all of you who have spoken, but do not speak on the basis of some ideological belief that we want to kill wind farms... [[Ten times.]] ...we just want to say clearly: renewable energy yes, but in a mix of energy, good use of money, which is for the energy mix, and not just for wind farms themselves. It's needed, it's good, it's smart, it worked out in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ten times that goes against it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u402	Thank you. [[Correct, Marshal.]] Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak as corrected. [[It's not like anyone mentioned him.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! Fighting windmills is hard. I'd like to correct. Speaking of co-incinerating here, I meant burning good wood in our power plants. I don't know what the Minister said about farmers' lost income, farmers cutting down forests and burning in these power plants. I don't see any connection here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u404	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Grzegorz Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to express my sincere thanks on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure for this debate today. Of course, she was emotional. I understand the emotion. These emotions accompanied us during the work on this bill all the time and I think that some time - until it turns out that the fruits of this law are good - these emotions will accompany us. Nevertheless, thank you very much for all the votes, for all the questions that have been raised in the debate. To their essential part, in fact almost all have been answered by the Minister, for which I thank you very much. I'm left with a few words about the questions that have been left to me. addressed, or in any part, to the committee. Well, the most painful thing about this debate is the lack of compromise that you have made. I do not want to bring up these cruel words that have been spoken here by some Members, very aggressive words - as I say, I put them on the back of my emotions - but speaking about the lack of compromise in this situation, following amendments, practically if they are accepted... After all, as you remember, as chairman of the committee at the committee meeting, I announced that we would make such amendments. They're being folded right now. Practically speaking, if we call your vote in this debate, it can actually be brought to two fundamental elements. The first, of course, is a matter of distance. That was the issue at the committee meeting. This is one of the most important matters that the law regulates. The second issue concerns all technical issues. That, too, is what you have asked very much in this debate. If we look at the minority proposals that have been submitted by Members, half of them really concern technical issues. Half of these problems are regulated by our amendments, practically taking them. Is it not, in your opinion, a compromise to remove Chapter III, namely the practical removal of the entire chapter on technical issues? [[Apostasy.]] This really is a hurtful opinion about the work we are presenting to you at this point in time. The question was, what does it look like in other countries? Of course, it should be said explicitly that there is no regulation. The European Union does not impose such regulations on Member States, and this is different in different countries. There are countries which, of course, do not take this issue. We are talking about a distance issue, because this is called when comparing with what is happening in other European countries. The last example that the applicant here referred to, in the case of Bavaria, is those 2 km. It's a standard that applies there. In general Germany is accepted from 1.5 km to 2 km. The same is true in Italy, because here there was an example of this country. It's about two kilometers out there, too. Although it is different in different parts of Italy, it is adopted up to 2 km in terms of regulations in this country. The same is true in Scotland - 2 km, in the Czech Republic - up to 1 km, say up to 800 m. In Denmark, which is often referred to in various debates, there is also a multiple of the total wind power plant measured from the foundation to the highest point. This, too, has been the charge that this is what we have decided to measure, but this is generally measured in Europe, from the foundation to the highest point. So that in this respect we are specially, in fact we are not at all different in terms of the majority of European regulations. I'm afraid... Oh, there's the notification you've been asking about. Yes, that was also one of the reasons why we considered that these amendments need to be introduced. We brought them in. This requirement for technical notification appeared in the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In this way, by introducing these amendments, we respond to it. And, of course, I am ending with this question, which sounded here during the debate, whether this bill is late. And unfortunately, it is necessary to answer: yes, this law is late, and it was a good several years, because it was necessary to adopt this law at the moment when they were created, windmills began to form in Poland. Then you should have approached the subject and established some rules of the game. [[To tame.]] As these rules of the game have not been established, today we have a big problem to actually regulate them in a civilised way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u406	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 14 h 21 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Committee on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts (prints 460 and 517). I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the work of the National Defence Commission on the government bill on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts. The project entered the High House on 26 April 2016. A day later, it was directed to the first reading, which took place on 12 May. At first reading, a motion for rejection was submitted at first reading, but the proposal did not obtain a majority and therefore the National Defence Parliamentary Committee was obliged to work on the project. The committee was held on 17 May. The Commission, just after starting work, voted that due to a relatively small number of regulations - the project consists of 8 articles - it is pointless to set up a special subcommittee to work on this project. Such a request was made and had to be put to the vote, but as I said, it was not accepted by the majority and was rejected. In the course of work on the article. 1 requested that the project be rejected in its entirety. The Commission, by 12 votes against and 5 votes against, agreed to reject the proposal and continued work. To the article. 1 and 2 editorial amendments have been notified by the Legislative Bureau. These amendments were accepted by the High Commission. An interesting event took place while working on the article. 3. The Civic Platform has tabled an amendment to replace the words with the words "removal." [[As rapporteur, you are lying and this is a scandal, that has not yet been done.]] Then it's Art. 3 instead of sounding, I quote: As of 30 September 2016, the Academy of National Defence is abolished, it would read: As of 30 September 2016, the Academy of National Defence is being abolished. However, this amendment was subsequently withdrawn by the notifiers and was not put to the vote. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 editorial amendments were accepted. Then to the article. 5 The Civic Platform has submitted a minority request to delete paragraph from this Article. 2, 3 and 4. 12 Members voted against the minority proposal, 4 supported it, so the proposal was not accepted, Art. 5 was therefore adopted in full, of course after previous minor drafting amendments. Art. 6 accepted without amendment. Art. 7 adopted with editorial amendments. Subsequently, the committee considered that a new provision should be introduced as an Article. 8, referring to the fact that the Act establishing the National Defence Academy of 27 February 2003 expires on 30 September 2016 and the original article. 8 gets number 9. Following the work of the committee, the draft law increased by one article, while the de facto essence of the project and its main objectives remained unchanged. In the vote on the whole of the draft law, 12 Members voted in favour, only 4 voted against, so with this vote the Committee on National Defence requests the adoption of this law. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me make a brief comment on yesterday's work. The main point of the dispute during the committee's work was whether the Academy of National Defence was being liquidated - that was the opinion of the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform - or transformed. And actually a better term, a term that reflects reality, is a term that is transformed. And I think that's what the parliamentarians from the Civic Platform have come to this conclusion... [[No, it's not, because there isn't one. That's a lie.]] ...because, as I said before, they tabled an amendment on liquidation, but after a while, they withdrew from this amendment. That's good. That's good. That's good. The purpose of this government presentation is particularly described in the preamble. This means a serious approach of the management of the Ministry of National Defence to the changes proposed in the operation of this military university, and that changes in the approach to training of military personnel, in putting new tasks and challenges arising from the needs and requirements of the Polish Army are needed, I think everyone sees. Today the world is very dynamic, especially the geopolitical situation is changing rapidly. Poland must think about how at every step it strengthens the intellectual potential of the Polish army. Therefore, the establishment of the Academy of War Art consists of providing the Polish army with modern strategic studies, a specific teaching and research offer in the field of social sciences related to the security and defence of the state. The Academy of War Art will play an important role in the system of preparing and improving professional leadership, staff and logistics forces of all levels of command: tactical, operational and strategic. The Academy of War Art will improve the qualifications of officers of all types of Armed Forces in post-graduate studies, qualification and improvement courses. The procedure introduced in the bill for creating and conducting forms of professional improvement will allow for a quick response to changing educational needs of the Armed Forces not only in quantitative but also in programme terms, thus contributing to the increase of the teaching offer of the Academy. In conclusion, as I said earlier, the Committee on National Defence asks for the adoption of this law at its meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u408	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Smirnow, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As it happens, when I represent the biggest club, I'm the first one to perform, and then I can't argue with my friends. Therefore, I would like to start by saying that the speeches of colleagues from the Platform... [[I know what they're gonna be like.]] ...both at first reading and during the discussion in the committee were scandalous. In particular, it is unacceptable to compare what the Minister proposes with the situation in universities that took place after 1968. [[The mechanism is similar.]] As it happens, I was a university employee at the time, and I know exactly what happened after 1968. I understand that a colleague of the Dark One doesn't know that because at the time... or he doesn't understand, but I'd love to talk to him about it, because I think it's unacceptable. [[Why don't you make a speech?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of higher military education has been mentioned for more than 10 years. There were different concepts, it is enough to say that these concepts have changed under the PO-PSL regime. When the Minister of Defence was Bogdan Klich, the development of universities was planned, and later, during Bronisław Komorowski's presidency, it was proposed to liquidate most universities and leave only one transformed university - Military Technical Academy. As far as the National Defence Academy is concerned, it was planned to be excluded from the National Defence Ministry at all, it was simply thought that it was no longer necessary. Of course, she would be in charge of security, but already as a civilian college. In a sense, it is so justified that only civilians study in first and second degree studies, i.e. undergraduate and master's degree, at the National Defence Academy. Nevertheless, the Academy of National Defence is a very needed university, because it should be the centre of strategic thought, so much needed especially today. It is simply impossible to plan an effective defence today, to ensure national security if we do not anticipate what risks are possible. Hence the academy must transform and that is the purpose of the present law. The law itself is a relatively simple law - as the rapporteur said, it contains only eight articles - because these are, in fact, laws that transform or create universities. After all, universities operate in accordance with the Law on Higher Education. This is why it is regulated in detail by the Law on Higher Education, which, in addition to military universities, contains additional provisions. In my opinion, this also requires reflection in the future, as perhaps adjustments should be made there. However, the transformation of the university itself is a process, it does not happen immediately, so it needs to start as soon as possible. This bill in the preamble sets out the direction in which the academy should develop. As regards the provisions of the Act, it increases the authority of the Minister, which is quite obvious and necessary, especially in the future in terms of determining the courses of study which should be the directions needed for our national defence system. Of course, courses of study are created with the consent of the Polish Accreditation Board, after meeting certain requirements, but the point is that they should be defined and needed by the Armed Forces, the General Staff, the Ministry of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the law provides that contracts with employees will be re-established after 2 months. Of course, a new structure will be created and this new structure must certainly require some adjustments. That's why I think this bill is understandable and very, very necessary. Of course, the Law and Justice Club supports it and calls on colleagues to understand, with greater understanding [[♪ The bell ♪]] They've come to the matter of discussing this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You don't have any friends.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is my great honor to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the government's draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts, prints no. 460 and 517. Poles have the opportunity to communicate with art so-called. It's been a good change for six months. And now another edition, namely the liquidation of the National Defence Academy, yesterday in the Committee on National Defence, Deputy Minister Bartłomiej Grabski confirmed that this is the liquidation of the National Defence Academy, in this place the establishment of the Academy of War Arts. This reminds me of the exchange concerning the Ministry of National Defence - Minister Jarosław Gowin to Minister Antoni Macierewicz. Ms Beata Szydło and the Government of Law and Justice announced a broad public consultation, or rather a lack of it, as follows: On April 26th, the project entered the Sejm, the next day it was directed to the first reading at the session of the Sejm, on May 13th, the first reading at the session of the Sejm, on May 17th, the report of the committee, on May 18th, we have a second reading and we expect that on May 21st, we will probably finish the process of winding up the National Defence Academy. Members of the Civic Platform at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on National Defence requested that an emergency committee be set up to consider a bill that raises many concerns and concerns. And above all, there are no substantive reasons for eliminating the Academy of National Defence and in this place the establishment of the Academy of War Arts. Law on Higher Education in Chapter 2: Creation and liquidation of universities in Article. 18 says that the liquidation of a public university, its connection with another university and its name are changed after consulting the Senate or the Senate of the universities concerned. At the end of March 2016, the Senate of the Academy of National Defence negatively referred to the liquidation of the Academy of National Defence, stating that there is no rational explanation for the liquidation of the Academy of National Defence, while the abbreviation ASW builds negative connotations related to the war, not defence, and the Academy of Internal Affairs dissolved in 1990. There was no debate in the academic community of the National Defence Academy, which has several thousand students. There is no information that the academic community supports the legislative initiative to set up the Academy of War Arts. The subjectivity of employees and students in relation to the proposed changes is important. It goes on, among other things. acceptance of the change in the employer's status. It is also important to respect the choice of students to study at the National Defence Academy and not at the Academy of War Arts, which may be important for the position of the university issuing a diploma in the opinion of the professional community. The proposed change may also have a number of implications for the organisation of studies in general, including international cooperation agreements or the foreign mobility of students and researchers. I would like to quote that after 25 years of existence, the Academy of National Defence has huge scientific achievements, teaching achievements, has positive and distinctive assessments of the fields of study carried out by the Polish Accreditation Commission, a very good image on the national and international arena. I would like to quote today from the Polish Accreditation Commission the assessment of the courses of the Academy of National Defence: positive international relations, distinguishing the direction of national security, positive towards logistics, positive towards economics, positive towards national security. The implementation of the Act entails significant financial costs which have not been presented and, above all, the consequences of the loss of staff capacity [[♪ The bell ♪]] if the staff does not accept the new working conditions of academics, another employer and, consequently, the loss of the right to education...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u412	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u413	...in a specific direction and level of education. Just one more sequence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u414	No, no, my fellow Member, time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u415	The article... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]] Ending the speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u416	Thank you, Member. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u417	We want a formal conclusion to end the speech. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u418	Member, time is up. If... [[Voice from the Chamber: A formal proposal may be made by a Member.]] But what conclusion? What is a formal conclusion? [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u419	The formal conclusion of the last one only brings in and this concludes my speech. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u420	But what is the conclusion, Madame?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u421	On behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u422	What conclusion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u423	On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I submit a motion for rejection in full in the second reading of the government bill on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u424	And thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15. [[You're welcome...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, My speech will be short because the bill itself is very short and does not contain much detail about how the new academy is to develop, how it will serve soldiers to develop their skills, improve their qualifications. And it's a pity, because I was hoping that since you took the first step, which is changing the name of the university, you will also go further and there will be records in the law that will allow us to hope that the university will actually be able to meet what we expect, that is, to keep up with the changing demands of the geopolitical situation. The reason for this is that we read all of this. If the justification is true, if this university actually keeps up with these changes, then I'm signing with both hands, of course I'll use only one for the vote. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But the law itself doesn't tell us that. Practically apart from changing the name from the National Defence Academy to the Academy of War Arts, we read nothing else from this law. Of course, we're guessing that this is about personal change. There's no need to think that there's not gonna be these... [[Preamble of the bill.]] Yeah, but the bill itself doesn't say anything about changes, just justification. [[It provides for exemptions in Article. 5.]] Yeah, he's expecting parole. That's what I said, there's no need to get your eyes crossed, there's not gonna be any layoffs. [[Well, that's good.]] We know what the bill is about, but I would count on military universities to train officers ready to fight so that they could graduate from the university and be able to lead the army. This is different at the moment, which is why this impulse, which I hope will be this amendment of the bill, is a positive direction for me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government's draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Art, included in print No 460, following the report of the committee in print No 517. On behalf of the Poselski Club I have made a proposal in the High House to reject this project at first reading. Unfortunately, the Law and Justice Club voted us out and directed this bad project to further work on the committee. Incidentally, this project is so bad that today even the rapporteur praised it, which is rather unusual in this House. [[Applause]] As you could expect, Law and Justice pushed the project through the committee without reflecting on the substantive voices of the opposition. However, the assumptions that were set out in the preamble to the project are really noble, and I would like to quote a quote from the beginning, especially from the Members of Law and Justice. It was probably still a time when the members of the party believed that Poland was not just the stools for handing out staff policies resembling tsunamis. It was that time when you said that changes should come from real needs, from a concept covering the whole problem. There's nothing left of it today. But here is a quote, a part of the statement that perfectly describes what we see in the surroundings of the bill. I quote: In the justification of the bill's drafts, the system of training officers is spoken very quickly. And further: in my opinion, action must be taken in the right order. Changes in the law on individual universities should not be a function of implementing the assessment of a certain general system of vocational training. First, we should discuss the concept proposed by the government, and then we can think about how to implement these proposals - the end of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen, who said that? I can't hear the answer. Well, these were the right words on November 12, 2002. Deputy Prime Minister Gosiewski during the work on the Act establishing the Academy of National Defence. I'm just gonna say there was nothing in HR policy in that bill. The Act at that time only spoke about fundamental matters from the point of view of tasks, the organisation of universities and the organisation of the teaching process, but the Deputy Prime Minister pointed out important obstacles to the serious treatment of the legislative process in this way. Unfortunately, during these 14 years, the optics of Law and Justice have changed 180 degrees. Instead of taking care of reliable work on regulations that create the legal reality of our country, for a reliable legislative process corresponding to the interests of Poland, you went into grotesque work on the staff structure. You have replaced the primacy of public interest with the primacy of party interest, and the primacy of competence derived from knowledge - the primacy of fidelity resulting from party membership. First of all, civilian service was the victim, it was a real heroic act. HRs in the Treasury companies went in the next phase, just like employees of all ministries, government agencies. Now it's time for the National Defence Academy. Because what is this project? I've talked about this many times before. The property of the current academy becomes the property of the new academy, the structure of the present academy becomes the structure of the new academy, the laws and obligations of the present academy become the rights and obligations of the new academy. Even if Law and Justice wanted to spread accents on the priorities of the academy, this law was not necessary at all. All you had to do was point out to the new authorities - designated by the states - what you want. The real purpose of this law lies in the article. 5, where Law and Justice recorded a brutal trial with the National Defence Academy. [[Yes, sir.]] You don't want to talk about what's important, about the officers' education system, about the academy's priorities. You felt that you were satisfied with the implementation of human resources policy. Unfortunately for the success of this strategy, you have come to us. The Poselski Modern Club is a proponent of a deep, substantive discussion on important topics, and such must be included in the training system of the Polish Army. Therefore, although we believe that this project deserves to be rejected at second reading, I would like to make amendments that force the Law and Justice to reflect on this wrong strategy of theirs. Firstly, we ask the High House to delete the essence of this project, i.e. the mouth. in Article 2, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 5. Of course, we are aware that without these paragraphs, the law is not necessary for Law and Justice, but leaving the proposed rules in the current wording is contrary to the interests of the Polish army, you would use any words in this debate to defend this law. [[Voice from the gym: WSI...]] We also request a change of mouth. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[And they keep texting you.]] Because I'm running out of time, I'm gonna allow myself to read that justification when I ask questions. So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u428	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda from the Polish People's Party has given his position in writing. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u429	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good change is a phrase about bad connotations. In a moment, it will touch the academic community, teachers, employees and 7,000. students of the National Defence Academy. We're not gonna throw anybody out for political opinions, we're not gonna take anybody out because he thinks otherwise. We want to make this school clear to the network of renowned universities, Western expert centres, in close contact with good experts, scientists from these scientists. The Academy must get a new impulse and open itself to the world, because it has been clotted so far - these are the words of Minister Fałkowski at the first reading. [[Voice from the hall: Oh, Paul, Paul...]] [[Voice from the room: Very good words.]] Even if I tried to agree with you on the new impulse or the use of anticoagulants, I would still say that you do not need to liquidate the university to make it, as you say everywhere, a prestigious university. Nor will this be achieved by its liquidation or by its change of name. Minister, don't treat Poles like people of a worse kind, don't insult their intelligence, because everyone knows what the real purpose of the bill is. It is known that it is revenge on the teaching staff and university staff. [[Don't talk nonsense.]] The National Defence Academy has great trust because it's a prestigious university... [[Yeah, right!]] ...and all you're trying to do is bring it down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u430	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u431	You can really laugh. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You eliminate everything, you laugh.]] Dear Minister, Here in the room at first reading and today I heard many negative opinions about the idea of creating the Academy of War Arts. As far as I know, the present National Defence Academy is not one of the prestigious universities in the country. [[How do you treat people?]] She confirmed it now, recently Mrs. Bożena Kaminska from the Civic Platform. I'd like to know who the National Defence Academy is training right now, Minister. Does he train military specialists? That's the first question. Second question: What are the most obsessed courses at this university? What kind of specialists will she be training at the Academy of War Arts? What are your plans? And what about the current staff? Are you really planning, as you called it from Modern, brutal... [[Brutal dissertation with personnel, clou of this bill.]] Oh, the HR trial, that's what you called it. That's what the opposition says. Is that true, Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u432	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ability to defend Poland is very important in the current geopolitical situation. Today's war is mainly a fight of professionals, engineers, drone pilots, specialist equipment operators. Without support, even the best soldier has little chance in the field. And that is what we should focus on - training specialists and improving their skills. It doesn't matter what the name of the academy is, it's how it works. Question: "Is it precisely the improvement of the ability of the academy that is the basis of this law, and not the exchange of employees, which in September the employment relationship expires?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The essence of this law, this project is the liquidation of the National Defence Academy and the establishment of a new Academy of War Arts. The tasks, the goals of both universities are identical. So the question is, why are we even doing this? The answer brings us a story related to the Minister of National Defence's representative for the reorganisation of this university, namely Prof. Żyro, who was twice applied as a candidate for head of one of the departments and twice the board of the department of this minister of National Defence rejected. And that's the real reason that's written in the article. 5. Because one article is liquidation. The National Defence Academy, another article is the establishment of a new university, and the essence is in the article. 5 - trial with the academic community. On the basis of our national experience, where our freedom and democracy were born in free universities, we have created the Law on Higher Education, giving universities - and this is not a modern experience - this is a multi-century experience, this is how freedom was born, in universities just - great autonomy to universities. Breaking the environmental resistance of the National Defence Academy is carried out by means of the heaviest means, through liquidation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just read these articles. We have tabled an amendment which is a minority request for rejection, deletion from the law of paragraph. Articles 2, 3 and 4 5 talking about firing workers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u436	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u437	If this is not your goal, then agree to the deletion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u438	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I must say that when I came to the examination of this law, I was hoping that I would actually find a lot of substantive information on the scope of education or programmes or changes in the functioning of universities. Unfortunately, this is not what we find in this legislation. Indeed, it is sad to say that it focuses on this sign we are talking about, the name of the academy, and on staff issues, and this sign actually raises questionable or even negative connotations, because we are a very peaceful country as one of the very few in Europe or in the world, or in history... [[And our neighbors are?]] ...so the National Defence Academy really sounds very good right now, I think it's much better than the Academy of War Arts. But of course that's not the most important thing. My question is very specific and concerns the article. Paragraph 7 Five, if I could ask for an answer to that question. This article provides for a three-year extension of the term of office of the university authorities over the standard two-time term of office, i.e. up to 11 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it could affect the functioning of the university itself, block careers, initiatives, some progress.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u440	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u441	Is 11 years freezing the same people...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u442	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u443	...for a long time? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u444	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Defence Academy and the Academy of War Arts. Just like a friend. He mentioned that the connotation is much less pleasant. If I had to choose whether I was a graduate of the National Defence Academy or a graduate of the Academy of War Arts, I would have chosen the first name. But that's not the point, I mean, it's so easy for you to change the name of this school. In fact, what added value does a change in the name of this school represent for citizens? I understand, I absolutely agree, that the organisation needs to be improved, that the existing mechanisms should be improved, that the teaching programme should be extended. Everything is absolutely acceptable and we will sign under it. But why change that name? I mean, these are extra costs. Is it so easy for you to give away money for changing the name of this school? Please spend your public money carefully. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u446	Thank you. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] [[I'll wait, Marshal. Such a good change now.]] I hope so. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Here we go. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u447	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am just going to say to you from Law and Justice: you have come to us and we are making a prank to you because we are showing in your projects to society what the Law and Justice are really about in these laws. [[You can't.]] I've already mentioned the first of the goals, this is a hearing with the staff, which is written in the article. 5, and this is one of our amendments, and we are also proposing a second amendment on the paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7. This amendment goes in such a way that the term of office of the academy bodies is included in the number of two terms during which members of the bodies can exercise their function. We believe that there are no substantive reasons for treating academy bodies better than other institutions in Poland, especially since the three-year term of their first term is about 75%. the period of the ordinary term of office, i.e. the overwhelming majority. Leaving this provision unchanged would mean that people with this function could do this for up to 11 years, which would undoubtedly block any scientific initiative in the academy. And it is only better to treat the organ of the academy because it will be the nominators of Law and Justice, ladies and gentlemen, the High House is absolutely unbecoming. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u448	Thank you very much. And one last question. Please, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The National Defence Academy was established in 1990. [[In 2002, sir.]] I don't know if you, especially the state of Modernity, realize that you are a direct continuation of the Academy of General Staff. General Charles Świerczewski, sir. I would like to point out to you that these universities are like the continuation of these activities that were undertaken in the 1940s, 50s, 60s and 70s, but please also remember this... [[Oh! That's what he calls himself.]] ...that in 1990 the National Defence Academy adopted... [[Just like our whole country.]] ...with the benefit of the inventory of all: these good workers and also TW, persons cooperating with the security system. If you say we want to do some personnel work, you are absolutely missing the truth. Can you imagine that the university will function without professors, habilitated doctors, doctors? Can you imagine that? Does the Law on Higher Education provide this possibility? [[You have to know her.]] Now get down on the ground from these Himalayas of hypocrisy, stop referring to these personnel things, because it's not the only thing. We just want to change a lot of things. [[But whose money?]] Minister, about the change and repairs. Are those changes that are proposed by this law and the establishment of the Academy of War Arts, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they in any way affect the conduct of the scientific process, teaching at this university? Are further changes envisaged for universities, for example, if it is possible to establish an air force academy in our country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The next one will be eliminated.]] [[The announcement of a good change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u450	Thank you very much. I still have a chance to see the guests on the balcony, so I salute you. And now I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartłomiej Grabski, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The Academy of War Art is intended to be a modern place for training officers of the Armed Forces of the Polish Army. The arguments put forward by your Members about the law establishing the Academy of War Art as a tool to make a profound change in staff at the university should indeed be taken into account. However, we do not want to lose the most valuable staff of the university, i.e. young officers with linear experience and degrees, effective teaching officers, fully trained, knowledge and experience they have gained, serving in military quotas or in command of multinational missions in responsible positions. These officers conduct lectures and exercises at qualification courses. Now, after consulting the National Defence Academy, there are very large gaps in these junior officers, from majors to lieutenants, there are about 40 officers missing, which I mentioned. At the same time, often by sitting in the walls of the academy there are also such lecturers who try to present the history and development of the People's Polish Army in a more or less direct way in a positive light. [[Yes, sir.]] As some of your fellow Members put it, no tragedy will happen, we can say that we are returning to normality. Officers at a military university must first of all acquire the necessary skills and education necessary at all levels of strategic, operational or tactical command. The university is to be primarily a place of training for the commanders of the Armed Forces, not a place to look for opportunities to earn up to a high, often very high, military pension. So far, the staff of professional soldiers has actually been declining. The negative position raised by you by the Senate of the Academy of National Defence mainly concerned a change in the name of the Academy of National Defence, and I quote: The Senate of the Academy of National Defence is concerned about the content of the bill, which does not change the form of things that will be involved in the work on the necessary changes in the Academy of National Defence. Seeing the dynamically and comprehensively increasing complexity of operating conditions, a strategy for the development of the academy has been developed and implemented, which will guarantee the establishment of a university whose existence will significantly change the training of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. As regards the definition of the university vision that you have raised, this will be expressed among others. Such assumptions: The Academy of War Art will be the leading military university in Poland. It will establish its position among military universities of character... in a European and ally environment. It will be prepared to carry out tasks and challenges arising from the needs, requirements and expectations of the Armed Forces. It will be a university on the level and innovation of research, quality of education and advice in the field of security and defence. It will be strong national values, it will also nurture and consolidate rich military traditions and the values of the state in the spirit of patriotism. It will also intensify cooperation with other universities and scientific institutions in Poland and abroad. As regards the issues raised by you regarding university orientations, they will certainly need to be changed. As far as issues relating to study are concerned, they are currently studying at the university, as far as I know - if I am wrong, I will correct - only civilians, officers are only at the training courses. This must certainly be changed. The analyses and visions made show that the following strategic objectives will be the most important for the new university: to rebuild the leading position of the academy in the military education system, to achieve the highest standards in science, to achieve the highest quality of education and education for students, to gain and strengthen the role of a key actor in expert advice and to develop and improve cooperation and university management. In summary, it is necessary to develop assumptions and strategies resulting from new conditions that have been disseminated to the academic community and have not met, as you present it, only with negative perception, because some students see such a need and are interested in changing their face. Part of the academic community recognizes the need for such changes. The new task and structural solutions will ensure the stability of the funding academy, which will certainly meet with the approval of the Senate and the academic community. The proposed changes create opportunities and need for development - new departments will be created and the establishment of dynamic and opinion-making expert centres will be made possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u452	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also ask the rapporteur of the Committee of Rafał Weber to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u453	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister answered questions about staffing and personnel issues very precisely, and I will not repeat it again. On the other hand, a few comments or answers to the questions that have been raised from the Chamber, particularly from the lips of the Member and of the Members who unfortunately do not exist, from the Civic Platform. [[I'm here. Please notice me here.]] The honourable Member is, there are no Members - I said so. [[You didn't say.]] [[He did.]] And I will do it as gently as I can just out of respect for you. You guys talk all the time about shutting down the National Defense Academy. Well, if you're talking, then be consistent. Submit this amendment to Article 3. You were very close to the last committee meeting. After consulting Minister Grabski, you withdrew. If you say it's liquidation, then be logical and consistent and make such an amendment, we'll lean over it. Believe me, we'll lean over her. There are also no representatives of the Kukiz club15, and I would also like to say so. The objectives and tasks of the Academy of War Arts are very clearly defined in the preamble. This is an exceptional case, in principle most of the recitals do not apply. On the other hand, in this law, and this is what I said at the beginning of my report, there is a preamble and it contains the objectives of creating the Academy of War Arts and they are very clearly defined there. On the other hand, I invite you to the meetings of the committee. In fact, neither the Member nor the Member are members of the National Defence Committee. You weren't at the meeting yesterday, and I think your presence is essential. Perhaps then your colleagues will know how to vote because they were sitting in their pockets and did not vote. I mean, their hands were on the table, but they didn't vote. Perhaps the Members' comments and suggestions will be needed in this respect. Thank you very much. [[About the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u454	Thank you very much. [[Your Marshal...]] I take it that's about the correction? [[Yes, Your Marshal, corrigendum.]] And this is just a moment, Mr Bożena Kamińska, first. There you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u455	(PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to this because you are insinuating that we have not made any changes or comments about how you interpret as Law and Justice the matter of the National Defence Academy in this Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: It is noted that the National Defence Academy is being abolished as of 30 September 2016. I'll give you an article. 18 Law on Higher Education, which concerns the establishment and liquidation of universities. He says that universities are being formed, they are eliminating and connecting. There is no formulation of the lift. I would like to ask a question to Minister Grabski, who was present yesterday at the committee meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u456	Madame, this is not the time for questions, but this is the correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u457	Well, in that case, I just wanted to confirm that to my question addressed to Minister Bartłomiej Grabski, which the applicant means by the wording "bears," I received an answer that the liquidation of the Academy of National Defence. Thank you very much. I didn't bring anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u458	Thank you very much. On the point of correcting Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go, two minutes too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u459	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Clearly, the rapporteur misunderstood me, so I wanted to correct it. As I said in my speech, the fact that the rapporteur, acting as a purely technical Member, is presenting a report on what happened in committee, has de facto become the spokesperson of this project, confirms how bad this project is. Our fellow Members fully understood how bad this project was, so they had trouble dealing with it. Participation in the vote, I don't know, doesn't make any sense. This project brings with it a change of name, first of all, and second of all, a brutal staff policy. This is not, as you have said, Minister, as if being invited to this staff, hiring new young officers, but this is a brutal dissertation with staff, which will result in the loss of work by substantive workers who have scientific achievements, successes in the field of science. These successful workers will be replaced by the nominators of Law and Justice, who, as was the result of the previous debate here, could not break through a dense network of substantive employees towards taking positions in university bodies. From the words that came here, I understand that this is the real purpose of this bill, so that those losers who couldn't get their colleagues nominated in the normal selection process, introduce the law into the academy bodies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u460	Thank you. I hear that the rapporteur also wants to speak, right? Please, Mr Rafał Weber, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u461	One sentence. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just for the record. Each article of this bill has been examined by the Legal Office's lawyers. For article 3 on the abolition of the National Defence Academy, the Legal Office's lawyers did not have any legal comments, so this is legal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u462	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u463	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party believes that the change of name from the National Defence Academy to the Academy of War Art is an outpost that serves the ruling team to release workers who are uncomfortable from the university. The use of the word "war" in the name of the university does not serve Poland, which should not be associated with attack and war activities. Nothing prevents the current name - the Academy of National Defence - from changing the regulations, statutes and other provisions that allow for changes expected by the governing team. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u464	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies (print No 514). Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury of Mr. Filip... [[Game in the O.R.]] Am I disturbing your fellow Members? ... Grzegorczyk to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased on behalf of the Council of Ministers to present a draft law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. Ladies and gentlemen, today's legal status is that it is so-called. Chimney bill. It is a law which, in the legal sense, is, to put it mildly, obsolete. We have diagnosed, and it was not necessary to carry out any in-depth audits here, that this is a normative act, which is largely avoided, not used, giving birth to pathology. Therefore, the law, the draft law which I present, abolishes the chimney law in the sense that it significantly restricts its application. This law, which I am now talking about, will apply to companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is primarily addressed to corporate bodies, i.e. entities that represent, exercise rights from shares, shares in companies controlled by the State Treasury, as well as companies controlled by the local government. Its aim is to introduce uniform, transparent and fair rules for the remuneration of managers of these companies, as well as members of supervisory boards. The Act is in line with the principles, with best corporate governance practices, strengthens good practices in the operation of supervision in commercial companies. It also appears that the law refers to market-based rules on wage formation, ensures transparency, but also refers to a certain sense of social justice in the sense that it introduces certain restrictions as regards the remuneration of members of the boards of commercial companies. With regard to the very way in which the remuneration of the members of the Management Board is determined, the main arrangements laid down by the Act are primarily the flexible formation of the basic remuneration. This remuneration will depend, in accordance with the elementary logic, on the size of the company's income, employment and value of the assets. Attention should also be paid to the incentive part of the remuneration. In principle, the remuneration will be divided into a fixed part, a variable part, and unlike the Chimney Act this bonus part will be significantly higher than until now, because it will not amount to around 20%, but in principle up to 50%, and in the case of some companies - up to 100%. This is the answer to the problem that really concerns what we pay for. We do not want to pay for functions, we want to pay first and foremost for real performance, which will be set up by supervisory boards. We anticipate that the basic formula for employment will be a civil law agreement, while at the same time we want to eliminate these, let's face it, pathological bonuses associated with the departures of the presidents. Thus, the maximum period of termination of the contract will be 3 months, the right to check-in will be acquired after 12 months of office. It will not be more than 3 times the fixed monthly salary. Finally, we want to introduce restrictions on compensation for the prohibition of competition. The right to prohibit competition will only be acquired after 3 months. This prohibition of competition will not be paid for more than 6 months. As a general rule, we want to introduce such a rule so that the ban on competition is actually... so that the ban on competition is economical. The point is that there have been far-reaching abuses here, where the bans on competition were received by members of boards of companies that did not have any competition. We also refer to the so-called. missionary companies when determining so-called. The NIP, namely in the case of missionary companies, is such a possibility that the settlement of the results is primarily about missions, public tasks, and not solely about financial effects. It is also intended to eliminate the pathology of additional earnings in capital groups. We do not rule out functions in companies belonging to the capital group, but such sitting should be free of charge. In conclusion, a word about the very construction of the bill. By creating a bill, we assumed that the chimney law actually creates a separate regime of company law for certain companies. The advantage of this project is, in fact, to remain in the mainstream of company law, corporate law, because the law primarily refers to, so to speak, does not affect the consistency of the Commercial Companies Code. This is its great advantage, hence the obligation that we impose is not an obligation imposed on companies, but on authorities exercising rights from shares, shares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u466	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Marek Suski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to a law which is to introduce new rules for the remuneration of persons running certain companies. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, sir? Did you want to help me or did you want to interrupt me? [[No, I'm with the envoy...]] I have only 4 minutes, but I will start with the history of these extraordinary earnings that have taken place in the last 8 years in the Treasury companies. In fact, there was a law called the chimney, which provided for an upper limit in companies, state-owned companies. It was a dozen thousand zlotys, and yet there were opportunities to make some extra money in the company of the daughter on the board, which means the president could earn twenty thousand. However, when Donald Tusk's team and the coalitioner, PSL, came to the conclusion that it was far too little to lift this ban, introduce management contracts, and at the same time introduce a ban on informing about the earnings of these managers, as it was necessary to protect that public opinion should not be appalled by what the Rabbit's colleagues earn. Because what was this nomination really about in our country? It depended on the position at the Prime Minister's, which is good connections. When you were a friend, you made 100, 200, and even 300,000. monthly. It was indeed a golden age, as their first guru, President Komorowski, said, that we live in golden times, in a golden age. And it was indeed an ordorado for dudes, for those who were in orbit of power. And the ban on competition actually resulted from one thing: from the ban on competition against colleagues, because once a colleague made a few million in a company of the Treasury, then he would not do the competition to his colleagues, went to rest, took a salary for a year, two years, and we heard that one had even had such a contract that he would take a salary from the company he was president for retirement. It was actually an eldorado. Or else: this was once called giving the legal framework to thieving, because it could be said that it was simply thieving, only an ideology was made for it, a law was made, a law was signed, and everything was legal, so it could even be brought to court by someone who would say that such a president, who was earning 300,000. A month, he's a thief. No, everything was legal, although he was doing the same job as his predecessor for $16,000, but it wasn't the PSL Platform at the time. These various bonuses were used and we had, for example. such a situation that one of the ministers, when he was no longer a minister, went to build a nuclear power plant for about 100,000. A month... [[Voice from the room: which he did not build.]] ...who has no plans or even a location, but built it, took money for this very hard building effort, as the Platform, Poland in construction, used to say. There were also people like the president of PGE who made 1140 thousand. monthly and one of the presidents of a smaller company, Tauron, gross 1900 thousand. PLN per month. Former PKP Vice President, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz's colleague Maria Wasiak, who took 510 thousand. Zł reward when she became Minister. Later, when the scandal broke out, of course, she passed this award on to some charity, although the question is whether she had the right to take such a high reward illegally. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. President of the Tailor - remuneration 3300 thousand. for prohibition of competition, etc., etc. So many colleagues had to be fed that we now have a big budget hole, so we need to patch it up. We think the president should make a decent living, but it shouldn't be the harvest of companies... [[Oh, come on.]] ...to make a friend out of $300,000. a month and took several million briefings. That's what this bill is for, to stop these pathologists. That is why the Law and Justice will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u468	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Zdzisław Gawlik to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u469	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Allow me not to abide by my predecessor's convention... [[Sure, true to the eyes of the circle.]] ...because I hope that Wednesday is the end of the meeting on this subject, but I recommend, Minister, reading the stock reports of certain companies for 2008. Then you'll see how it was paid back in 2005 and 2007. These are also interesting sizes. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I wanted to present our position on the Law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. Mr Dawid Jackiewicz, when presenting the bill, pointed out that it would guarantee fair and uniform principles of remuneration. The proposed provisions in the Minister's intention imply a complete change in the philosophy of wage formation, based, as the Minister mentioned, on four pillars. Of course, it may be doubtful whether such far-reaching changes in this philosophy of remuneration are involved in this law. The proposed law distinguishes certain groups of companies for which the legislation in question is appropriate, setting for each group a certain level of remuneration resulting from the assignment of the company according to certain parameters which the Minister spoke of. At the same time, however, without questioning the need in this regard, the law introduces the possibility of withdrawing from the rigid rules of remuneration in two cases: firstly, where exceptional circumstances arise concerning the company or the market, secondly, public companies are allowed to determine remuneration on the basis of a comparison of remuneration with the remuneration of members of public company management bodies of a similar scale or of similar subject matter. We're dealing with a benchmark, which is talking about the fact that we have a CAP, we're basically replicating a formula that's contained in the chimney bill, that we had a CAP at the level of six salaries, and we have two gates created for others who will be rewarded according to a different standard. These issues relate in part to the remuneration of the so-called. constant. As far as the variable part is concerned, you can also have doubts without getting into the details, at least on two points. We are dealing with the division of companies into two groups - the level of variable remuneration in one group of companies up to 50%, and for others - 100% , for so-called. public service companies. Of course, the question arises, given how it is defined: What is the scale of companies? Question: "What in these companies are we really going to reward the managers of these companies for, and what is the reason why we differentiate between two groups of companies, make managers better and worse?" About bonuses in these companies, so-called. missionary, will not decide on the assessment of management efficiency or the increase in the value of assets that are managed by such persons, but will decide on discretion. In this respect, perhaps it is worth leaning over another model of remuneration, so that tax companies are rewarded for the result, not just for their diligence. Caution is also assessed, for example: the 1993 Act on National Investment Funds. [[You could've brought it in. You were a minister. You're smart now, aren't you?]] The discussion in the background that appeared is important. The project also covers the remuneration of winding-up officers. Without discussing the details, isn't it worth considering that the liquidation officer should be rewarded for the result of his actions? Because today, in this structure, it's in the interests of the Liquidator that this liquidation should continue. It seems to me that it is in the interests of the designers to make it - from the Minister's statement - so that the remuneration in the company is the only remuneration that a member of the Management Board receives. As regards subsidiaries, this is the case, but please note that there is a gateway in this law that: if a member of the management body wishes to participate in other bodies, it is sufficient that he will only report such an intention. Of course, today we are dealing with this kind of situation, that there are certain managers who are in different companies, in the fuel sector, in the financial sector, I will not say, doubting their doubts, perhaps they are needed, but perhaps it is necessary to introduce this rule, the principle of remuneration, so that they are rewarded only in one entity. The Law also examines the issue of so-called. additional benefits. Perhaps, using different patterns, e.g. French, it is necessary to bend over to draw up implementing rules that define the standard of additional service that a member of the Management Board may expect. Then there will be no discussion about cars, colors, etc. One of the pillars on which the bill is based is the principle of transparency. It is only a pity - I have such an impression after reading this law - that we are not talking about the amount of remuneration here, we are just talking about certain principles or draft resolutions that would be published in the Public Information Bulletin. Publicity should be open-minded. The Act also addresses the possibility of introducing a prohibition of competition, a non-compete benefit without discussing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, as far as it should be, it cannot be a source of compensation for a member of the Management Board because he once worked in a company. The prohibition of competition should be regarded as a tool in the company's hands and at any time should be granted to the company the right to terminate the prohibition of competition if it is found that such a company was not useful and under no circumstances has such information, qualifications which could have been useful on the market. And one last thing. When discussing the content of the bill, it is important to consider the construction and content of the bill. This law contains many phrases, so-called phrases. declaring: the draft resolution contains provisions, the draft law provides for provisions, the contract contains an obligation. I do not think this is the best way to build legislation. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that this law be passed on to further seismic work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u470	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk will give his speech on behalf of the Kukiz team15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies, print No. 514. The contested Act on the principles of remuneration of the companies with the participation of the State Treasury is certainly a step in the right direction, provided that it is used as intended. Unfortunately, as with many previous government projects, there can be doubts about this. This law raises a very important issue of remuneration in companies with the State Treasury, as it improves the chimney law, which only concerned companies in which the State had a share of more than 50%, and thus did not include companies such as PZU, Orlen or KGHM. Does this law have a chance to make this right, or can it become another money grinder for people associated with the governing camp - no, not necessarily with the PiS, but also with each other, because we know that the nation chooses the chosen ones and they choose their chosen ones? Let's get back to the point of the bill. The Act provides that the remuneration will consist of a fixed part resulting from the performance of duties and mobile, i.e. a popular bonus. The fixed part of the remuneration will be included in the forks, which will depend on the size of the company. In exceptional circumstances, this can be amended by a resolution. Maybe there's a loophole here that needs to be looked at, because here's a resolution of the board that can change the foundation of the bill. Variable part - bonus up to 100% the basic salary of a member of the management body - is to be dependent on the company's investment objectives achieved. And here's another loophole. Who sets goals for themselves, who sets the thresholds that must be achieved? Perhaps this should be considered in committee. It welcomes the fact that some privileges, such as housing and business cars, are being abolished, and the changes in the amount of checks are welcome. Nor should we forget the provision prohibiting the Presidents of companies with the participation of the Treasury from sitting on the supervisory boards of subsidiaries - it is certainly a step in the right direction. In principle, the law should be seen as a step in the right direction. The expected savings for the State Treasury due to its introduction are about PLN 60 million. However, it is important to be very honest about discussing it during committee work, so that real managers are competent and pay for real results, not because of their political sympathies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u472	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Poselski Club A modern speech by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure of presenting the position of the Modern Club regarding this bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the State Treasury Minister's statement on the audit included a great deal of information about negative developments in the Treasury companies. We remember that a specific symbol of these phenomena was the golden Mercedes. I would like to tell you that at one time, many years ago, because in 2005, but actually the work went on much longer, in the Ministry of the Treasury there was a very valuable document: Ownership supervision rules. This document was developed at the time of AWS rule, and later was corrected, and in the time of SLD rule... I say this on purpose, because sometimes it's worth not interrupting state affairs and looking at the achievements of the predecessors. Unfortunately, this book, because this document has the form of such a Bordeaux book, the Minister may find it in the archive, probably covered in dust, because for eight years it was actually dusty. But if the rules of this book were to be introduced, it probably wouldn't be necessary to adopt this law today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister spoke during the audit about the so-called. The chimney law has been celebrated many times, violated, this has been the practice in the companies of the State Treasury over the last years, and I agree with that. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not an excuse to sanction this kind of practice. Because what do the provisions of this law we're talking about right now mean? They actually mean an increase in salaries in companies. Please note that the chimney law provided for a maximum of six times the remuneration in the State Treasury companies, which is present in the largest companies, provides for fifteen times. In the explanatory memorandum you wrote that the purpose of this law is to approximate the conditions of remuneration in companies of the State Treasury to market conditions, i.e. those on which private companies employ their managers. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Treasury, the Minister of the Treasury, does not recruit managers in recent years on the market. We don't see that. On the contrary, it has happened that the Minister of the Treasury recruited managers from among these benches. This parliamentary remuneration should, in such a arrangement, be such a specific benchmark for setting salaries. Let me remind you that our salary is within 10,000. PLN, while the maximum remuneration, only this part of the permanent president of the largest company or the largest state companies, is the amount of about 60 thousand. zł. This comparison indicates we're going in the wrong direction. I would point out that the law does not specify the so-called. additional benefits which may be provided by managers. I am thinking here, for example, about life insurance, civil liability insurance, medical package, various practices in this area. It is said to be enigmatic about the possibility of using certain technical equipment or resources owned by the company, whatever that means. There is great doubt as set out in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 possibility to increase the fixed remuneration for members of boards of companies of the State Treasury, municipal companies as well. Please note that there is no limit to the remuneration of supervisory boards. There was a limitation that this remuneration could not be increased by more than 10% . I hope that in the final version of the bill we will also reduce the remuneration of the boards, because it would be a path to raising these salaries and avoiding the new law, as the chimney law was avoided. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 [[♪ The bell ♪]] they do not distinguish between the concept of termination of the contract with the issue of the appointment of a board of directors. Unfortunately, my time is up, so let me just say that this bill is a bad bill, doesn't solve the problems we met at the chimney bill. The Modern Club will request that this law be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u474	Unfortunately, there has been no time for Mrs Kasprzak, which is why we are moving to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, who will speak on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u475	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! With this night shift, I will try not to abuse the patience of the High House. Dear Marshal! Minister! The Minister doesn't listen to the criticisms that come down here. I think it is indeed a bad bill, because using the general criticism that we have been dealing with lately, it is proposed a law that brings nothing new but distracts attention. The issue is important, because the remuneration in the companies of the State Treasury is always controversial and these principles need to be defined precisely. There are always trends and trends in making as much money as possible, and these earnings are very often out of control, while the solutions proposed do not eliminate this problem. They introduce even more confusion, incomprehensibleness and the possibility of dealing with all these proposals in different ways. Such illegibility, indiscretion, such sluggishness as it is here, does not solve this problem. Unclear records, e.g. Missionary companies - this gives us the opportunity to circumvent this here, because how to value, how to determine this mission, as previously defined. It was supposed to limit the top levels of earnings for company boards, but we're still going to give money to our own. We criticize our predecessors for giving money to their own people and making mistakes, and here we repeat the same mistakes and create the gateways. So it seems to me that if this law is to be such a law that cleans, clarifies and regulates in some way what Minister Gawlik has said here, it requires a general change. In this version it is not acceptable, therefore in the committee everything should be changed in general and we will be in favour of this option so that clarity and readability are here. Because we go further towards criticism on the one hand, we say: the golden Mercedes and this is an opportunity to show irregularities, although this has nothing to do with irregularities, and on the other hand we duplicate the same solutions. [[There isn't?]] Yes, because the gold Mercedes is a golden color, not a gold one, Madam Member. [[Ha, ha, ha, ha!]] I have a silver passat. Does that mean he's made of silver? No, so let's be precise and be clear. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u476	Thank you very much. List of Members voted on - seven persons. Does anyone else come forward to ask a question? No. I'll close the list then. The time to ask a question is 2 minutes. We begin with Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law actually sets out a fundamental change in the approach to the principles of wage formation in companies, let's call it yes, state and municipal. The existing provisions under the so-called "laws" The chimney law is flawed in many points, even if it does not provide the authorities with the ownership powers of guidelines for the shaping of these remunerations in respect of management boards and supervisory boards, it allows for the formation of these remunerations in an unjustified manner, in isolation from reality, without taking into account the size of the company, the scale of the activities, the results obtained, and finally can be a source of pathology which in connection with the article. 3 of this law took place in companies with the participation of the Treasury or local government units in the remuneration of members of the board, for example in the provision of management services, when the entity established personal security or material claims. The proposed changes are moving in the right direction in many respects. My question concerns the proposed method for determining the permanent monthly remuneration of a member of the management body for data relating to one of the last two financial years. What about the newly created companies, because such situations happen, for what period would this assessment be made? And second question. Have simulations been carried out, estimates of both Treasury companies and municipal companies, as the proposed solutions will affect the level and differentiation of remuneration in relation to the current situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u478	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Iwona Michalek, club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u479	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, public opinion is shaken by information that someone has worked briefly in the company and received a million-dollar briefing. It is appalling, incomprehensible to the average bread eater. Shocking are not only big briefings, but monthly payouts. My question is very simple - the question that my interlocutors are asking me when they come to my office. Will the public continue to be fed with information after the implementation of this law that for one month's remuneration in the company can you buy a house or a car, or maybe something even better? Is this gonna end? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u480	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Suski, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u481	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question inspired by Mr. Zdzisław Gawlik, who, when he was a minister, was just... [[Minister.]] ...realized it for his colleagues and his coalitioner, and today he tells us what model to use, how to reduce these earnings. But it also criticizes us that we do two, better and worse, that there are two different ways or two different types of CEOs, because some will earn less, some will earn less. Now I actually understand everything by looking at this philosophy, why they made so much money, because if you think that the one who makes a lot of money is a good manager, then I understand that you made good managers because you gave them 300,000 each, and whether they knew each other or not, that's another thing, but because he made good money, he was a good manager. But I was also very inspired by what Mr Gawlik said, until recently the Minister, that these salaries need to be made public. I have a question for the Minister whether the Minister knows how much the current Mr Gawlik was earning in the company he was building - or at least pretending to be building - a nuclear power plant, because he seems to have gone with Mr Grad to build this Poland in construction. It didn't really work out, but he probably made some good money, and today he can buy himself a gold Mercedes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u482	Please, another question will be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u483	Dear Minister, Minister! I would like to ask the Minister how the Treasury's debt will decrease, because in the explanatory memorandum, I think, among other things. State Treasury debt is reported to be reduced. For the time being, debt is increasing from taking over power, and it is not decreasing, but whether the effects of these changes have been valued, because if yours are also to earn so much or even more... [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]] ...as it was said, because everything points to this and results from the fact that these earnings will be higher, how will the Treasury's debt decrease and how much? Thank you. [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u484	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u485	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act provides that remuneration will consist of a fixed part resulting from the performance of duties and a mobile part, i.e. a popular bonus. The fixed part of the remuneration will be included in the forks, which will depend on the size of the company, in exceptional circumstances it will be possible to amend it by a resolution. This could lead to more pathology. What is the purpose of this record? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, another question, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u487	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, I must disappoint Mrs Michalek, who said that she was hoping that after the law came into force there would be no more situations that the president or member of the board of a state company would be able to buy a good car or even a house for one month's salary. Well, I must disappoint you, because still the president of the state company, this time with the granting of the Law and Justice, will be able to buy a very good car for one month, because the remuneration consisting of a fixed part and a variable part in the company of the State Treasury, such a largest company, will be exactly PLN 130 524.90. [[New car.]] [[It will be able to, not: it will amount.]] It's gonna be okay, yeah. I assume that it will be able and probably in many cases it will be that much. That, I think, is enough to buy maybe not a gold Mercedes, but a pretty decent car. [[Middle class.]] [[Golden Mercedes.]] I'll answer the question. Minister, I would like to ask, on what grounds have you carried out any detailed analyses, if so, I would ask for information, you have divided the companies into groups and how many companies are in each of these groups? I think of those groups in which the remuneration varies, in companies of the State Treasury or municipal companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to one more question in this law, quite serious, concerning companies with a minority interest in the State Treasury, because the intention is that these companies should also be subject to the regulations of this law. Well, I'm asking you to explain what's gonna happen when the State Treasury representative at the shareholders' meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the general assembly simply be voted out and rules which will not comply with this law be adopted? I understand that this can often happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u488	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, also by the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u489	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will quote here the words of a good legislator: The requirements of precision and clarity of legislation are part of the concept of a rational legislator. When you read this bill, there are really moments when you don't know what it is - whether it's a calling or a contract, there's a lot of impreciseness. I hope that this will be explained during the committee's work. I would like to refer here to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1) as it contains a non-precise provision for a management service contract. It would be necessary to specify specifically what kind of contract is to be concluded: is it an order contract or a management contract, specifically what? The aim of this law is to limit the expenditure on salaries and here it will be possible to open the gate to the conclusion of uncontrolled additional salaries. This implies that, in practice, the exercise of management activities and in conjunction with Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (1) may lead to the creation of subjective, unreasonable costs actually incurred by the company. An unfair person carrying out management activities will be able to use arbitraryly created catalogues to generate artificial costs, to charge unfairly VAT, which will actually affect the circumvention of statutory remuneration limits, but above all will give rise to the expansion of pathology in the tax on goods and services. Is that the purpose of this bill? I hope you will take these comments into account. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[In which article?]] [[Art. 5.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u490	You're welcome. Is Mr Zdzisław Gawlik corrected? Because I didn't really know what it meant to be waving my hand at me, but I assumed so. [[Your marshal, if you don't mind, I...]] But first, tell me to know what you want... [[Corrigendum.]] Exactly. Then you have one minute to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u491	As far as the personal address is concerned, I will not refer to Mr Marek Suski's statement. You know, I'm sure what I've worked for, I think, deserved, and all the activities that were carried out on the nuclear project were done properly. Moreover, I believe that Poland deserves to have a power plant as well. As far as the construction process is concerned, what conditions must be met, the Polish atomic agency and the international atomic agency also define these requirements. It's not just a process that takes place overnight. The questions relating to the doubts you raised, the question of the principles of remuneration. The law called the chimney is still in force today, and according to this law all managers, including today's employees, nominators appointed recently, are employed according to the same rules. This law gave the opportunity to employ on two alternative grounds: there was employment for a contract of employment up to the level [[♪ The bell ♪]] Six times the average wage and so-called management contracts. It's all legal. So it's not true what you're saying. [[That's what you guys said. It's a thief's law, but it's a law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u492	Mr. President, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u493	You know, if you're talking about a thief's law or anything, you should refer to who you're talking to and who when, at which point you made it. [[Well, you guys made up your mind how you ruled.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u494	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u495	No, you're lying, you're a liar. Thank you very much. [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u496	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury of Mr Filip Grzegorczyk to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to address your comments. Thank you very much for your comments. The first question is the question of Mr Szulowski - companies newly created. Of course, the solution to this is, you can refer to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 laws. The newly created company is clearly a special case. Therefore, the solution to this is. As for Mrs Michalek's question, I believe that it is impossible to buy a house for a month's wages - because I understand that question. I don't think there are any houses like this. [[There's no such thing as cheap.]] As for the car, it's more complicated than that... [[For $2,000. You can buy it.]] ...because it's $2,000. You can buy it. I think you can buy a car for a minimum wage. The question is, does he drive? But of course... [[I was thinking about driving.]] About driving, well... [[130,000. That's enough.]] Mr President, I do not agree with you here. Because you have to read it carefully. A month's pay, I think, won't allow it. You just add it up with a bonus that's paid the fastest after a year. So what you've done is a fundamental methodological error. Now, Mr Kasprzak's question. Again, we come to the conclusion that such a basic value is the accurate reading of the text. Nowhere in the explanatory memorandum does it say that there will be savings for the Treasury. These are savings for companies of the Treasury. It's subtle, but it's a fundamental difference. So I say, let's read carefully, we'll avoid many misunderstandings. [[But money is public.]] But money is, of course, kind of public. After all, we're running a state estate. Mr Kaczmarczyk asked about the exceptions. What's that supposed to do? So let me say this: on the basis of today's legal situation, as noted in this discussion, there are two grounds for employment - either a contract of employment, and then we use a chimney, or a management contract, and then there is no chimney. Only that there are no guidelines in the Act on when, for what reasons you can give up the chimney. The difference between the current solution and the proposed solution is that here we clearly indicate that these are to be exceptional cases. This is intended to ensure that the bill does not, so to speak, a gateway to abuse, only a certain safety valve - a safety valve that responds to some market demand. There's also one more thing to point out here. Sometimes in the company, remuneration comes from international agreements - and this is a valid exception. Sometimes companies are located abroad - this may also be a legitimate exception. But, as I say, it's not about - and don't assume bad will - that the exception becomes a rule. The point is simply to take into account situations that are very rare, but that can happen. So this is not the area for abuse, Mr President, but this is simply the rationalism of the projector, which assumes that different exceptional situations can happen. That's all it is. So it's hard to make an accusation out of it. As for Mr Gryglas' question about what will happen when the representative of the State Treasury is voted out, I understand that Mr Gryglas realises that he is asking about companies with minority participation in the State Treasury. If the State Treasury representative is voted out, it means that the State Treasury no longer controls this company. Why doesn't he control her? Because the shares were sold and caused to lose an effective majority at the assembly. So what, we're supposed to regulate companies with a 5% share of the Treasury? Instead of appreciating that we have found a way to regulate a company effectively controlled, it is a vicious question by nature: What will be the vote? If he's overruled, it's out of the question, that's all. I guess that's the obvious thing. [[There it is.]] And one more thing. Let's not give in to some hoax. Please do not compare the proposed salary to the fictitious chimney. Don't pretend we're saying 15 times, and there's six in the chimney. Because we see clearly that there are no six, but there are three million for Orlen's president. Then compare it to facts, not fictional law. [[Six million.]] With $6 million debriefing. So let's compare it to reality, and let's not compare it to what we think. Because it might seem like a lot of things to us. There is also the question asked by Mrs Stępień. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member accuses of lack of precision, pointing to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (1). The Commissioner criticises that we have used the wording: a service, a management service contract, and we have not used the concept of an order service or an order contract. I would like to explain to you that according to the Civil Code, the subject matter of the contract-order is legal activity, and the management of the company is not just about legal activities, but about a much broader catalogue of activities, mostly non-legal. What you are talking about is probably what you are talking about in Article. 750 Civil Code and Art. 750 The Civil Code refers to a service contract or a service contract to which the contract applies. I think that when you accuse yourself of lack of precision, you first need to read carefully, learn and understand this Civil Code. I'm not saying I have a monopoly, God forbid, I just... [[You've gone a little far.]] I'm not overreacting, I'm just saying don't charge yourself with lack of precision, while the procedure is as correct as possible. I don't want to offend anyone, but what is a contract-order, that is a contract-order, and we use the descriptive concept of a service contract in order to best give back what is at stake, what we want to regulate. And the contract, this management contract, I say, doesn't require any depth either, it's not called a management contract, it's an unnamed business practice contract, so that's the charge, unfortunately, it's completely missed. [[That's your opinion.]] Yeah, of course, that's my opinion supported by some knowledge, but I understand that maybe not enough, okay. I think I've already run out of this payroll question book, ad personam, I'm not gonna say anything. Maybe all I can say is that the fact that I don't want to disclose this salary is proof that not everything is governed by the principle of transparency. So that's how I would relate to what Minister Gawlik was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u498	Thank you, Minister. Member of the Committee on Corrections? [[Corrections.]] 1 minute, like the previous Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u499	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I must refer to the words of the Minister. Well, I'm gonna go back to that car again. 130,000. is indeed the amount if a maximum premium is granted and not received immediately, whereas the amount which a member of the management board of the largest state company can receive without a premium condition is 62 262,45 zł - enough for a very good car. [[Middle class.]] Middle class, but a new car, we don't have to talk anymore, and that's the kind of car he can buy himself. nominated by the Law and Justice Board member. [[But not the gold Mercedes.]] Minister, the question of comparison or lack of permission to compare with the chimney law. This right to compare exists because the chimney law was applied in many companies of the State Treasury and many municipal companies. Not in all companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] - you gave the example of Orlen - this law was celebrated, management contracts were not used in all, so it is entitled to a comparison with the chimney law, which is in force and also played a role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u500	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 18 May this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first person I will ask to make a statement - unless it is written - is Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. Do you want to make a statement? [[I will.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u501	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On Sunday 15 May, we celebrated the International Family Day established by the United Nations General Assembly Resolution in 1993. In many workplaces, among others. In Włocławski Anwil, on this occasion the day of work was reduced by 2 hours so that employees could devote the time thus obtained to their own family. The streets of many Polish cities also went through many thousand and joyful marches for life and family, whose participants under the motto "Every life is priceless" called for respect for the right to life of every human being. Beautiful words about the value of family, we could also hear from the Presidential Couple. The family, however, is mostly everyday. Poles have heard about pro-family politics for years. Unfortunately, these were mostly empty slogans. It was only the government of Law and Justice that led to the situation that Polish families finally receive real support. The number of applications submitted under the scheme has already exceeded 2 million and more than one million benefits have been paid. This year's International Family Day in many Polish homes finally had a real dimension in the form of support from the state, which must not forget its citizens. The previous government team represented by the PO-PSL coalition of many problems recalled when the elections were approaching, so-called. by throwing a tape at them, offering solutions to make them sympathetic to society. That's probably why the Supreme Audit Office in its report found that it was not a real pro-family policy of the state. The actions were not comprehensive, random and ad hoc. Of course, the Government of Law and Justice continues to support the family in raising children, such as caring for little ones who are under three years old, in nursery, children's clubs or day care workers. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy allocated PLN 151 million this year for the creation and maintenance of such places within the framework of the project, and thanks to the announcement of the competition at the end of last year, money finally went to institutions faster, without delays known from previous years. The Government of Law and Justice has proved that the state is citizens, not just elites, and that the future of Poland is created by those who raise new generations of Poles in daily work, not those who, eating octopus in Warsaw's restaurants, convince each other that the state exists only theoretically. This year's International Family Day was really special. Polish families can finally count on their country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u502	Thank you very much. A further statement will be made or written by Jacek Kurzepa. How, sir? [[I'll read it.]] There's gonna be an oral statement, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u503	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poles! The passerby, tell Poland that we have fallen faithful in her service. Everything was done in the so-called. The Valley of Death to storm the hill 575 and alert for the entire battle of Monte Cassino hill 593. I trust the story of his capture to many of you, listeners, knows at random. If not, I assume that you will catch up with historical knowledge, using, for example, huge resources of the network or watching relations in the Polish Television. We know that the fight for this hill lasted for months. They were stormed by many other national formations, without success. Finally, in the morning of 18 May 1944 Polish troops, including 3. Carpathian Rifle Division, but also, as far as the neighboring hills are concerned, 5. Extreme Infantry Division and Two. Armored brigade. On this hill there is a monument - the cross, below pantry eagles and divisional signs, and inscriptions in four languages directed in four parts of the world: "For your freedom and ours, we, Polish soldiers, have given to God the spirit, the Italian land the body, and the heart of Poland. The author of these words is a poet, a soldier of the Carpathian division Bolesław Kopczyński. I focus on this aspect of the anniversary memory, being impressed by today's beautiful and embedded in the loving homeland and pride of it and its sons by the speech of the President of the Lightest Republic at the celebrations at Monte Cassino. It is good to have as president a man who authentically experiences the history of his own nation, who not only speaks of it with beautiful Polish language, but also with respect to her heroes and the history of her homeland deeply bows to her. Even if some of you may consider this reflection to be the servility of the first water, I will turn to the equals of the President, to the generation of middle-aged people with the question: How do you live your relationship with our common homeland? If you've found time to listen to his speech today addressed to the veterans, but also to the youth at Monte Cassino, what do you think? What does that make you? And even if you are not yet ready to analyze the words of the President of your own country, you and I would like to face Bolesław Kopczyński's earlier words: "We gave to God the spirit, the Italian land the body, and the heart of Poland." In what case would you be willing to offer such a sacrifice? Is Poland the value for which it is worth to struggle, to tire out, to bleed out sometimes? Is Poland at all, or is Poland adjective? Embezzled by someone or obscured by something. What was the death of heroic soldiers in Monte Cassino for? Looking for an answer to this question, I think the most obvious answer is the phrase: for free. In those years of occupation freedom was a one-sounding, categoric and non-relativised value. And today? What does the freedom of our homeland mean for us? Is it soundly sounding to them, or does some false and untruthful note distract us and disappoint us? What country are you willing to sacrifice for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u504	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek. It will also be read, yes, Member? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On May 13, or not so long ago, 115 years passed, as Witold Pilecki was born in Ołońc, and soon, on May 25, 68 years after he died. Witold Pilecki coat of arms Lewiła, captain of the Polish Army cavalry, co-founder of the Secret Polish Army, soldier of the Home Army, prisoners and organizer of the resistance movement in Auschwitz, author of reports about the Holocaust, so-called. Pilecki's reports. Accused and sentenced by the communist authorities of the People's Republic of Poland to the death penalty. The judgment was annulled in 1990. After death, in 2006 he received the Order of the White Eagle and in 2013 he was promoted to the rank of colonel. In 1918 and 1921 he served in the Polish Army, fought against the Bolsheviks during the war. As a cavalryman, he took part in the defense of Grodno. In the '20s. In the 20th century, the Pilecki family regained the estate of Sutchite near Lida. Ladies and gentlemen, I was there last year on a motorcycle. There's no more manor. There's only a bunch of trees, which means the mansion remains. But there is something in the church in this village: two large paintings of Witold Pilecki's hand. The local parishioners who live there Poles worship them as relics. There are graves of his family at the Succhini cemetery. Next, near the church, there's a wooden house, there's a general school where Mrs. Maria Pilecka taught, she was a teacher. There are now some Poles who know where he lived before the war Witold Pilecki, a little tidy it up, especially the cemetery, and commemorate his presence there. I am talking about this because Witold Pilecki is just regaining his place in the memory of Poles, and he should already have it, expensive, important. There are now marches of the captain of Pilecki. In my Toruń there will be a march on Saturday, not the first. I'm going to be a part of it. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to remind you of this character because it's really worth remembering. It is important that we all talk a lot about him, because contrary to what may seem to some who are interested in history, know something about him, young people are not yet taught in school as they should, about Witold Pilecki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u506	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement by Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday in Kamiennik, in the district of Nysa, a meeting of farmers concentrated in NSZZ Individual Farmers of NY land with representatives of the Agricultural Property Agency Terrain Branch in Opole, local government and representatives of the German company with limited liability Agrohop took place. The company leases agricultural property of the Agricultural Property Stock State Treasury with a total area of ca. 684 ha. One of the contracts is concluded by 31 October of this year for about 270 ha, the other by 10 May 2019 for about 414 ha. They are located in the municipalities of Kamiennik and Otmuchów in the district of Nysa. The Nysa Land Farmers' Protest Committee, composed of Ms Anna Łukasiewicz, President, Mr Jarosław Stopera, Vice-President, and Mr Maciej Maciuszek, Mr Mariusz Mazurek and Mr Łukasz Urbańczyk, intervened during the previous government on allowing individual farmers to rent these land to expand their family holdings. They oppose the conclusion of further contracts with a 100% foreign capital-based tenant, Agrohop and its related entities. I would like to declare to the farmers of the individual NY land their full support for their efforts to enlarge their family farms, because in accordance with Article. 23 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is based on the country's agricultural system. Today I submitted a parliamentary interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development with a request for interest in this matter of the Department of Land Management and the Agricultural Property Agency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u508	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Wróblewska, the Law and Justice Club, will make another parliamentary statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u509	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The next Saturday, 21 May in the archdiocese of Przemysl will host the ceremony of the ingress of the new archbishop of the Archdiocese of Przemysl Fr. bp. Adam Szal. Bishop Adam Shal has been associated with the Diocese of Przemysl since the beginning of his priestly ministry. On May 31, 1979, in Przemyśl, he was ordained priest. Ignacy Tokarczuk. He quickly completed his PhD in the history of the Church and less than nine years after his priestly ordination he became a lecturer in a seminary and a director of the seminary library. Since July 1996 he has also served as the rector of the Higher Seminary in Przemyśl. On 16 November 2000, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012. The Holy Father John Paul II appointed him the auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Przemysl. Sakry accepted December 23rd in the Przemysl architectery. The main consecrated was Archbishop Józef Michalik, co-consecrated by Bishop Stefan Moscow and Bishop Edward Białogłowski. What kind of man is Bishop Adam Shal? It will best be given back to the place where the primitive mass of the newly ordained bishop took place. The day after the ceremony in the Archdiocese of Przemysl, Bishop Adam Szal went to the Hostel for the Homeless. St. Albert's brother in Przemyśl. There he and the homeless, sick and socially excluded celebrated the birth of our Savior. Among such men he witnessed his faith and hope. It was for those in need that he celebrated a primitive mass as a witness to the endless love for God and people. Since 1983 Fr. Bishop Adam Szal participates in the pilgrimage to Jasna Gora in Przemysl. During this journey he visits all groups of pilgrimages. Pilgrims say that the bishop is a warm, empathetic hierarch, does not create a distance around his person and is open and friendly in his dealings with others. Often, either individually or with a group of pilgrims, he goes to the Pacławska Passion-Maritime Shrine 30 km from Przemyśl. He is also the initiator of the pedestrian pilgrimage of people with disabilities to this sanctuary. About his priestly service on the air of the Archdiocese Radio FARA said: "Every day of my ministry I treat as a great gift from God. Thank you very much for all your help, above all spiritual, for all your kindness, and I ask you very much to pray and accompany this service, which is increasingly absorbing. This is what Bishop Adam Szal said in his interview with the Catholic Information Agency in December 2010, when it was the 10th anniversary of his bishop's sacrament. I would like from this place, which is used to present positions important to the country, to wish on behalf of myself and all the people of good will a fruitful service, that the Archbishop may go to the depths and make an abundant catch. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! They fought for Polish land, for access to healthy food, and they were given a court order. They fought for the change of agricultural policy and good legislation for the food security of Poland, i.e. the health of our children and our children. They also fought for me, fought for everyone here - for you, for you, for all of you. Today, farmers participating in protests in a green town in front of the Council of Ministers in Warsaw roam the courts for crossing the road, for perverting their eyes, for living and defending themselves. They defend Poland, because Polish land is, alongside Poles, our greatest good. I appeal to the government, to the Ministry of Justice, to review the case of almost 200 farmers whose cases are pending in the District Court in Siedlce, including other farmers who have similar problems that I do not know about. I'm asking them to contact me, too. They defended our land when Law and Justice had not yet ruled. Who knows what would have happened if the farmers hadn't shown scale of the problem of sale of Polish land. I address this matter to the Ministry of Justice and call for help because it is impossible to punish people who defend our Poland. In a way, it resembles the situation of the cursed soldiers. They were defending, and then they were being harassed. We must not allow this situation in 2016. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've got threats ahead of us. TTIP is a trade agreement negotiated since 2013, the main objective of which is to create a free trade area between the United States and the European Union. There are negotiations that concern all of us, but the deliberations are secret. TTIP will not bring even profits in Europe, but will increase corporate profits even more. TTIP is a threat to public services. The implementation of TTIP may have an impact on the reduction of workers' rights. TTIP is a threat to food standards because large food companies will not give up flooding the European Union market with cheap genetically modified food. To survive, we will buy cheap food of low quality. The adoption of TTIP may lead to a decrease in the level of protection against substances that endanger human health and harm the environment. The main drivers of change are not the citizens of the European Union, but the international corporations that view TTIP as strengthening their position vis-à-vis small companies and governments, which sometimes have ideas that please citizens but are detrimental to corporations. The TTIP is about to end this self-will of governments and parliaments. We are a colony, a devastated country, and that is what we should all be doing, not discussing the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court won't feed the children or give us a job. Americans treat Poland - the last conversation between President Paweł Kukiz and American writing - like one of the states of the European Union, but certainly not like California, the richest of the states of the United States. Let's finally open our eyes to important things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u512	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! June 19th this year In Nowogrod near Łomża for the 23rd time will be organized by the Regional Cultural Centre in Łomża National Days of Kurpiowska Culture. The culture of the inhabitants of the Kurpie Green Forest is one of the richest and most faithful preserved yet poorly known regional cultures of our country. As part of the National Days of Kurpiowska Culture, for 23 years there has been a Regional Review of Kapels, Śpiewaków and People's Reptiles in Zbójna, the National Competition of Kurpiowski's Teams in Nowogrod, workshops of dying competitions, non-competition performances of folk and folklore bands, among which, to our joy, there are more and more such ones that place Kurpiowski's songs and dances in their repertoires, and in their authentic form. This is proof that excavating from oblivion and cultivating archaic, it would seem, traditions make sense. The opportunity to participate in the National Days of Kurpiowska Culture leads their participants, getting younger, to remember their grandmothers and grandparents in order to be able to present another song or talk. This makes an unforced, authentic relationship between generations, and it greatly enriches and extends the archive to unfamiliar works, and this is also what organizers of the National Days of Kurpiowska Culture are concerned about. In addition, during the course of the review, the audience will have the opportunity to know through their personal participation artistic and utility works, blacksmithing, cutting, etc. Because of the rapidly changing world, old customs and traditions are disappearing. Civilizational progress forces us to replace some professions with others, and we have to accept that. However, we cannot accept and we cannot allow knowledge of our traditions, customs and regional cultures to disappear. By means of events such as the National Days of Kurpie Culture, we have the chance to restore them and preserve them, which is why the overarching goal of the National Days of Kurpie Culture is to preserve the tradition and convey the folk cultural heritage and to promote and present folk art effectively by promoting the customs and ceremonies of Kurpie culture, traditional music, singing and games. Organisation 23. National Days of Kurpiowska Culture significantly contributes to strengthening the position of Kurpiowszczyzna on the cultural map of Poland. The experts emphasize that this is one of the last regions in Poland, in which elements of folk culture are preserved so well. The event also influences the formation of a positive image of the Podlaskie voivodship by building and consolidating the cultural identity of the region. Over the years of the event, the number of youngest participants in the event is constantly increasing, which is not terrified of learning and making lyrics in the face of their grandmothers and grandparents. On the contrary, they find joy in discovering the fun that the context gives them with authentic, not Cepelian folklore. The ability to say something in a glow, to woven on authentic grandmother's looms, to bring to a school handcuffed at a blacksmith's ornament is no longer a charm, but a reason to be proud. In the last Sunday, over 150 folk artists appeared in the Robotic Regional Review of Kapels, Singers and People's Reptiles in front of the audience, and young people and the elderly played together on the stage, where the age difference was often over 50 years. This shows that organizers are very often implementing a program of cultivating and popularizing the tradition of Kurpie folklore. Small children appear next to experienced older performers. This is the best sign and hope that the Kurpie traditions will not disappear. From this point of view, I would like to thank all those involved professionally and socially, and in particular the Municipal Cultural Centre in Zbójna, Regional Cultural Centre in Łomża, for working on the organisation of the National Days of Culture in Kurpiowska, popularization of knowledge about the region and taking care of the culture of this region of Poland. We all know the words of the Polish ethnographic artist Adam Chętnik, for whom the Kurpie land was home. The words that were his life's credo: Doing so, I wonder if it would be good for Poland. Adam the Chotnik also said, "Whoever loves his heart [[♪ The bell ♪]] The corner, this country will also love the whole country. In addition to this corner beloved by this outstanding activist, museum and researcher of Kurpie culture, I would like to invite everyone to 23. National Days of Kurpiowska Culture 19 June in Nowogrod. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u514	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara is absent. In this connection, Mrs Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u515	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, June 1st, International Children's Day - a joyful holiday full of smiling children's but probably adult faces. Children by nature are trusting, laughing, calm. They feel best and safest in the arms of loving and caring parents. Because that should be a childhood: carefree, joyful, peaceful, passing at play, jokes. Then the most beautiful memories are born... of adult memories. Today there are several thousand adults among us who do not have, because they cannot have good memories. Their childhood, youth, fell on the years 1939 and 1945, the period of World War II. German time, and after 17 September also Soviet aggression against Poland, genocide, terror and cruelty. Polish children died during war activities, in prisons, in extermination camps, were murdered in the Katowice Gestapo. The survivors saw motherly tears and father's powerlessness. They often lost their parents, were taken from families, exported into the Third Reich or into Siberia, subjected to pseudomedical experiments. Polish children suffered hunger, cold, lack of a roof over their heads, often being pushed to work over their strength. They saw massless graves. Children of War. Imagine those teenage girls or even teenage girls after the war. No parents, no home, no backup, often no roof over his head. In their lives, in their bodies, and above all in their hearts and minds, a terrible crime has been committed. Lonely children and young people used the Peerelian world. Those who weren't deceived ended up in the Katowice Katowice. Terror again. Nameless graves again. And erasing from historical memory. However, after regaining freedom, the politician of the last two decades has also failed to see that today older children are not just frosted. They have starving retirement and nightmares. Every year, the Children of War are dying. It's not just a proverbial bell, but it's really the last bell for us to claim their harm so that we can make up for their suffering. Should not the government of the aggressor participate in participation in the symbolic though compensation of harm? Probably soon, with the death of the last Child War, the problem will solve itself. Is that what this is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u516	Thank you very much, Madam President. This was the last of the Members' statements today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: Thank you, good night.]] That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u517	Statement on the 67th anniversary of Anatoly Radzivonik's death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 May, we celebrated the 67th anniversary of the death of Anatoly Radzivonik, alias Olech, the lieutenant of the Polish Army, one of the commanders of troops of the anti-communist underground and independence, the last commander of organized structures of the Polish underground of independence on New Zealand. The figures in today's Poland almost unknown, and in Belarus, due to the actions of the Soviet propaganda apparatus, very negatively evaluated. Anatol Radzivonik was born in Briansk, Russia. His parents were evacuated there from Volkowska by the Tsarski authorities. After the Polish-Soviet war, however, the Radziwoniks returned to their hometowns, and Anatol began his studies at the State Male Teacher Seminary in Slonim. After graduating from school he worked in a rural school, teaching Polish and Belarusian, while participating in the creation of local scouting structures. Radziwonik was appointed to the Polish Army in the summer of 1938. The war found him in Iszczołnani, where he lived after having been released from the army. We don't know exactly when he joined the independence conspiracy. However, in 1943 he was already in charge of one of the underground facilities of the AK Szchuczyn Circuit, codenamed "Łąka." During his service in the Home Army, he was promoted to officer rank - lieutenant. From the winter of 1944, after moving to the guerrilla, he commanded the 3rd platoon of the 2nd company of 7th Battalion 77. The infantry regiment of the AK, which was led by the Lieutenants. Bojomira Trzórianski.Stocie and por. Jan Piwnik, Ponure. Anatol Radzivonik participated in numerous fights against German occupation forces. On April 15, 1944, a patrol separated from his platoon disarmed the German police station and the Belarusian police in Możejkowie Mały. During the same month his troops also crashed the German crew in Możejkow Wielki and then German troops in Kowczyk. In June Radzivonik took part in the liquidation of the German garrison in Jewish. In July, Olech headed for Vilnius to take part in the action of the Ostrzy Gate. His squad was late, so he wasn't disarmed. The commander therefore led the subordinates to Szchuczyn, where he continued his underground activities. Due to the difficult contact with the structures of the AK in the spring of 1945, a 4967 circuit was established, over which Olech took command. Anatol Radzivonik became the main enemy of the NKVD in 1945. His squad was counting. then about 800 people. The NKVD has long tried to eliminate all the off-road facilities. Polish resistance was only broken after 4 years. He died on 12 May 1949, near the village of Raczkowszczyzna, while trying to break through the Soviet manhunt. A few years ago, on the 64th anniversary of the death of Radzivonik, a memorial cross was unveiled at the place where he died. They were sentenced to high fines for their prayers: the President of the Polish Union in Belarus and the President of the Polish Army Association in Belarus. The cross was removed by unknown perpetrators 2 months after the sacrifice, but returned to its place in December 2013. It was supplemented by a stone and a plaque. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-18-sejm-19-1.u518	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 19 May, by 3 p.m. 9. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 44]]
