ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u1	Resume session. Senators, please take your seats. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals during the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. The text of the information is contained in print No 166. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 7 June 2016, the Commission heard the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance present at the Senate meeting of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, Mr Łukasz Kaminski. Welcome, Mr. President. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year, which concerns the information presented today, the Institute of National Remembrance celebrated the 15th anniversary of its existence. And it was a natural time for us to take stock of some summaries, balance sheets, and it was also an opportunity to hear an opinion about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance during these 15 years, we also listened to these opinions in this room. These opinions, this balance sheet is ♪ I'm not hiding ♪ For us it is a reason to be proud of all that we have achieved. But 2015 was above all a time of regular work and this is what the information presented today is about. It is extensive, but even such extensive information does not cover all our actions. I'm going to have to present them in a far-reaching shortcut. The largest part of the Institute of National Remembrance is our archive. The archive is also an essential element of the operation of all other branches of the Institute of National Remembrance, the entire Institute uses the activities of the archive. This archive currently counts 91 km of current files and increased last year by 450 m. So that despite the passage of years this archive is still growing, for two reasons. Firstly, we are still discovering in institutions which are legally obliged to pass on documents which are subject to transmission to the Institute of National Remembrance. Most of these documents last year were obtained from the structures of state administration, police, prison, army, prosecutors and courts. The second element that affects the expansion of the resource is the donations of individuals. We take over very important collections from people living in Poland, but also - What's more important? On an increasingly large scale we also take over collections that were created on emigration, thus contributing not only to their behaviour, but also to the sharing of them to Polish historians. Our archive has also been collecting copies of documents from the archives of foreign countries, documents concerning the history of Poland and Poles for many years. We have acquired over 650 000 pages of such documents in recent years. Last year we obtained them from archives of Estonia, Georgia, Ukraine and Hungary. Among these documents, which in the form of copies reach our archive, there are also documents from Polish institutions outside the borders. For many years we have supported the activities of Polish archives outside the country. In a special way, our support in organizing and digitising the collections concerns the Institute of Piłsudski in New York, the Polish Library in Paris, the Study of Polish Underground in London and the Polish Museum in Rapperswil, where last year we not only developed and digitized some collections, but also prepared a web portal and an exhibition together and an accompanying album devoted to Polish soldiers interned in Switzerland during World War II. Last year, our archive received a new task, resulting from the implementation of the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and oppressed persons, a law adopted on the initiative of the High House. This law entered into force on 31 August and by the end of the year, acting on the basis of it, we issued 735 administrative decisions and implemented 613 requests for evidence of opposition activity, which is a necessary step to ensure that the persons concerned can then apply to the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons for appropriate rights and in some cases also benefits. This action is similar to the action carried out for several years now in connection with the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. The Institute of National Remembrance is the only institution authorized to apply to the President of the Republic for the award of the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. It is a distinction highly appreciated in the community of anti-communist opposition activists. Last year, we submitted 882 applications to the President, and the President granted one thousand and 78 awards, most of which were presented during ceremonies organized by the Institute of National Remembrance. This is not our statutory duty, this is the action that we took two years ago, on our own initiative, in order to make the celebrations of this award special. Last year we organized 30 such events. Since the beginning of the Institute of National Remembrance, the so-called public interest has aroused a great deal of interest. a restricted collection, a collection isolated from the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance. Today comes into force a law that eliminates this collection. But without waiting for this bill, and not even knowing that such a law would enter into force, we tried to actively cooperate with the special forces to reduce it. Last year this collection was reduced to the greatest extent in the history of the Institute of National Remembrance More than 6 000 800 archival units have been transferred to the public. I would also like to draw attention to the start, after a longer period of preparation, of the process of transferring to new magnetic tape carriers, which are contained in a proprietary set. These are the tapes we took from the Secret Service, but there were no devices that would allow them to be read. We managed to collect such devices in cooperation with the ABW, an attempt was made to read 401 tapes, out of which 263 were successfully read. Of course, the others we'll still be trying to read. The scale of activity of the archives of the Institute of National Remembrance gives the numbers. Last year 65 thousand applications were made for the provision of archive materials, various types of applications, and 271 000 checks were carried out for other branches of the Institute, for the purposes of the competent authorities of the State. Such a wide range of work is possible, among others. Thanks to the continuous modernisation of our archive, the introduction of the system of the Digital Archive, which is now, I dare say, the best system of archival information in Poland, thanks to the digitisation of the collections, which only last year covered 33 thousand archival units. The foundation of the Institute of National Remembrance, which makes the most of this good work of the archive, is a mirror pawn, one can say that to a large extent the work of the mirror pawn is dependent on cooperation with the archive. The Mirror Office of the Institute of National Remembrance gathered 371 000 illustrative statements at the end of last year, of which 56 thousand have so far been verified. Where does this huge discrepancy come from? First of all, the obligation to mirror candidates in local elections, not elected people, but those who simply ran. After each municipal election, this gap between verified statements and statements collected unfortunately increases. What we have managed to improve in previous years is the number of verified checks per year. Last year there were 9.5 thousand of them, which is almost double the increase over 5 years, with this growth achieved without any changes e.g. in employment, it's not like more people were assigned to this job because we didn't have that opportunity. This is achieved only by improving work and introducing new procedures, new solutions, including technical ones. The prosecutors of the IPN Mirror Division last year submitted 133 requests for the initiation of a mirror proceeding and 6 posts in the case of self-images. 168 final judgments have been taken, including 124 declaring that the claim was not accurate. The second pawn, prosecutorial, Institute of National Remembrance, is the pawn of prosecution of crimes against the Polish nation. In 2015, the prosecutors of this facility completed a thousand 78 investigations. The vast majority, because more than 60%, are investigations into communist crimes, 387 of German crimes, 25 of other crimes. And it is worth noting that this level of the number of investigations completed per year remains at a similar level with the decreasing level of the level of the criminal prosecution against the Polish nation. These investigations have, like, a few aspects, a few meanings. The first, and of course basic, is to bring justice to the perpetrators of the crimes committed, which is, of course, increasingly difficult as time passes. Last year, 14 indictments against 16 people were sent to the courts. What I would like to point out is that we managed to overcome the collapse that occurred in 2011 as a result of the decision of the Supreme Court, which changed the definition of limitation periods in the case of communist crimes, which resulted in the need to cancel hundreds of proceedings, hundreds of investigations which, I am convinced, would largely end in court. It is worth noting that most of these investigations, which I am talking about, have been going on from the beginning with the full awareness that it will be impossible to bring the perpetrators to trial, even if the perpetrators die. However, here is this statutory exception in the powers of our prosecutors, because, in so far as the prosecutor of the U.S. Attorney General in such a situation is required to cancel or not initiate an investigation, our prosecutors are obliged to conduct it in order to determine all the circumstances of the crime. I am convinced that this dimension of symbolic justice contained in the waiver provisions is also important, because in such a decision to terminate the investigation, the prosecutor most often determines the legal qualification of the crime and, if possible, identifies the responsible and identifies the victims. So that it also has a legal dimension, because these materials from proceedings, they happen, they serve, for example. in various types of civil proceedings related to the investigation of various claims e.g. The victims' families. And I am convinced that even if these investigations were completed at the moment 100% without bringing the indictment to the courts, i.e. in cases such as: German crimes or Soviet crimes, that these acts of redemption, precisely with this good legal argument, will still have their meaning in the future, apart from such obvious meaning, means that in this way important source materials are also created for further historical research. Because prosecutors have powers that are not available to researchers, and only last year 4,000 70 witnesses were interviewed, and one day this material will be available to historians. It is also worth paying attention to the importance of these investigations for loved ones, for families. There are many such investigations that arouse the interest of the nearest victims. I'm just going to give you one example: an investigation into an Augustan manhunt with a lot of interest. This is a difficult investigation, because we cannot count on legal cooperation from the Russian side, nor, unfortunately, as it turns out, the Belarusian side, and yet one step at a time we manage to draw closer to the truth. Last year, which we are talking about today I will mention only two events • prosecutors received a very broad opinion from experts based on the analysis of aerial photographs from the 1940s, 1950s and modern satellite photos, which allowed to identify the likely burial sites of the victims. And by monitoring various types of Russian websites, contrary to the official statements in the official documents of the Russian party, that there are no documents on the raid in the Russian archives, we were able to obtain copies of military documents presenting the military aspects of this great crime. Prosecutors of the Institute of National Remembrance are also active participants in the project, which in recent years arouses the greatest interest of the public, i.e. the project of searching for unknown burial sites of victims of communist terror. This project is run primarily by the Independent Department of Search for IPN. Last year these works were carried out in many places, I will mention only those which ended in finding the remains of the victims of the Bródnowski Cemetery in Warsaw, Gdansk, Płock, Rzeszów, Tarnów and Białystok Cemetery. Białystok is a special place, the area near the arrest of investigators, the former prison, because in search of victims of communist terror, we also found victims of German terror from the time of World War II, which I believe is an eloquent symbol of the fate of Poles in the 20th century. The total remains of 385 people have already been found and throughout the project since autumn 2011. More than 800 people, 66 of whom are already identified. Last year there was a solemn funeral of the first 35 persons identified from the Powazkowska Kojakka. A law has also entered into force that solves the difficult problem of carrying later graves. The Institute of National Remembrance submitted applications for the transfer of graves from the accommodation unit As far as Powązki is concerned, as far as I know, all decisions have already been issued by the voivode, the first graves are being moved so that this problem will finally be closed in the near future. Another area of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance is research carried out within 11 nationwide projects and 14 branch projects. 4 national projects by decision of the Council are of a priority nature. These are the projects: the Polish lands under occupation 1939-1945, the government of the Polish People's Republic in the face of socio-political crises and the democratic opposition 1956-1976. In recent years, this project focused on the events of 1956, the Structures and activities of the Polish People's Republic of Poland and the Polish political emigration 1939-1990. It is worth noting that researchers from outside the Institute of National Remembrance also participate in all these national projects. We also try to encourage representatives of other centres, especially universities, centres of the Polish Academy of Sciences, to cooperate with us in the implementation of these projects. Research results are presented at scientific conferences. Last year we organised 53 scientific conferences, 17 of which are international, and 23 popularization sessions. The Institute also conducts large documentary projects, implemented in the form of a competition for NGOs. These are the Poles' Index murdered and repressed for helping Jews, as well as the personal losses and victims of repression under German occupation. We are also conducting a notation project, recording long accounts of witnesses of history. Last year, 173 such accounts were recorded. Research is also the basis for publishing, although it is worth remembering that many of our publications are also popular in science. In the past year 195 publications were published, which, if I am not mistaken, is the highest number in the history of the Institute, and in addition 40 older publications were made available in the Digital Library in electronic form. This Digital Library is growing from year to year. From the educational publications I will mention maybe only three: another educational game of the institute,.7. In the defense of Lviv, published in Polish, English and Ukrainian languages; a series of comic books by Antek Silver's war odyssey, also enjoying huge popularity, for example at the book fair, is at the moment the largest publishing hit of the Institute of National Remembrance; and the popular synthesis of a hundred years of scouting. As far as publications of a more scientific nature are concerned, just as an example I will mention the post of the presidents of the Republic of Poland in exile, which we published on the 25th anniversary of the transmission of insignia by President Kaczorowski. Besides, the presentation of this publication took place in the Senate, and thank you for this opportunity. Last year, the first volume appeared, but in 2 volumes, a new, extended, improved, built-in scientific apparatus of the edition of the fundamental work of the National Army in documents. This is a project that's been going on for several years. It was initiated by the sleeper. Chairman Janusz Kurtyka. We were able to finish the first volume. The next ones will appear, I think, faster. It is an extremely important publishing house. And another, whose first volumes may begin to appear this year, initiated last year, of a similar, I think, meaning, is the editing of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński's notes. We have signed an agreement with the relevant ecclesiastical institutions to issue them in the form of 30 volumes, of course also in the scientific study. From such publications, which were of great interest to readers, I will exchange the biography of Michał Żymierski and maybe the book on monuments of gratitude This is a topic that last year became particularly hot, and the Institute of National Remembrance was fortunate to have published a very thorough study describing this problem. The form of recognition for the publication of the Institute of National Remembrance is numerous awards, which our books receive in practically every historical competition, for historical books that take place in Poland, with the exception of the "Historical Book of the Year," which we organize, so it is difficult to promote our own publications there. Educational activities, perhaps the most recognizable sphere of activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, are certainly particularly important. Each year thousands of educational projects are carried out, from one-off projects in the form of lessons for a group of students to year-round projects that involve hundreds or even thousands of people. Our educational activity is addressed not only to students, but also to teachers and ♪ What to remember ♪ ♪ What to remember ♪ ♪ What to remember ♪ ♪ It's for the general public. A large part of our offer is addressed to all Poles, not just to the young generation. As far as the offer for teachers is concerned, in addition to many trainings which I will not talk about, I will mention a new educational briefcase, a new educational material devoted to the Polish independence underground. This is the material that teachers have long been waiting for because of the increased interest in the history of Soldiers Cursed among young people. I would like to mention only a few of the many projects aimed at young people. The first is a group of projects. These are educational projects, I'll tell you about free Poland, the Stones of Memory, you can't forget about it... A meeting with women who went through the hell of camps and camps, equipment and buttons with an eagle of rust. These are projects, from my own personal point of view, particularly important, because they are not based on the fact that students are simply meant to acquire some knowledge from one publication or another. These are projects where young people discover history by themselves looking for sources, often meeting with living witnesses of history. And that is why, I am convinced, these projects go to them much more than traditional competitions, where you just have to prepare yourself, then complete some test or solve some tasks, because they are able to feel certain emotions and get to know the emotions of people participating in events that students describe. But of course we also engage in traditional ones, such as the historical Olympics. For several years we have been a partner of the Polish Historical Society in the organization of the historical Olympics. I would like to draw attention to the Oxford debates, which last year for the first time on a national scale were a form of educational activity of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is, of course, a very elite action aimed at a relatively narrow group of young people who form teams and later in mode, I would say, the cups face each other, are selected leaders in particular regions who later meet in Warsaw. This is not only a school of understanding history, but also a school of public debate. I am convinced that there are probably and future senators among the participants in the Oxford debates. And I would also like to encourage your senators to participate, because it is today and tomorrow that the final of the Oxford debate tournament is held for the Cup of the President of the IPN. It is really worth a moment to listen to these young people who are often in a difficult situation, because the idea of the Oxford debate is that they do not choose whether to defend themselves or to oppose it. You have to be able to find arguments, sometimes against your own beliefs, so it really is a good thinking school. In our educational activity we also reach for the film. Let me just remind you that last year we had the sixth edition of the film review of Echa Katynia, which was already held in 30 cities. From year to year, this event includes more and more localities. Of course, we use the Internet, educational portals. The greatest of them, Memory. en, last year had 2 million 500 thousand entrances. Last year four new portals were created. There's also our YouTube channel where we put our film production. Last year, we expanded on a much larger scale than before, the idea of "History Stop." Because we know that in many towns, where there is no branch or IPN delegation, there is a demand for a meeting with the institute, a meeting with historians, we create the Stops of History. They, unlike here in Warsaw, do not have their headquarters, where something happens every day, but regularly, once or twice a month, there are such initiatives. Last year we prepared 20 new inserts, the most popular of which, when they silenced, cried out, was shown in 38 localities. We also continue to show exhibitions from years ago that are of interest. Last year we showed 186 such older exhibitions, many of them many times. We're working with TV. Together with the television, the Republic carries out a series of documentary films from the security film, and with the Polish Television we realized two programs in the previous year: History for you and the birth of Solidarity, as well as an age-long test from history, which had over 2 million viewers. It is one of the largest audiences in terms of the great tests carried out by Program 1. And maybe the last element of the educational activity, but quite current: the project of the patrons of our streets. In addition to leading our, probably to the well-known, long-standing struggle to change those, so to speak, bad patrons connected with the communist system, we also try to promote patrons who deserve it, but also explain to Poles who were people who were patrons of their street. Because it is unfortunately a common phenomenon that such knowledge is rather moderate. So we prepare special brochures, which are most often supplied by scouts, by members of various types of student historical clubs. E.g. brochures are distributed on Pileckiego Street. And this, of course, is an opportunity for me to thank the High House once again for bringing forward a second legislative initiative that will finally solve this problem. We are already preparing, as an institute, for the entry into force of the law. We want not only to wait for the moment when we will issue opinions at the request of the voivods, but already to advise local governments on what street names should be changed. And of course, if necessary, we will also advise on who to choose as a new patron. Especially from local heroes. Because since we're talking about over a thousand street names that should change, it's a great opportunity to remind a lot of forgotten people. Not only in the national dimension, but also in the dimension of creating a certain local identity. The Institute of National Remembrance, as every year, was also active outside the country. This activity took place in several fields. One of them is related to the dissemination of Polish experience in settlements with the past. For many years now, we have seen that the Polish model has a great deal of interest, there is a great need for study visits to the institute and for the trips of our experts to other countries to share this experience. We also work with our partner institutions around the world. This is both bilateral cooperation... Last year it was particularly intense with the Hungarian National Remembrance Committee, this is a new institution. The results of this cooperation will be collected in the current year, jointly celebrating the anniversary of the events of 1956 in Poland and Hungary. This is also multilateral cooperation, mainly within two institutions. The first is the European Network of Archive Institutions dealing with Secret Service Files. The greatest effect of this cooperation was the exhibition, which was created mainly thanks to the Institute of National Remembrance, devoted to how the communist security apparatus, the secret police, influenced everyday life in the countries of the Soviet bloc, which was opened in October 2015 in Berlin. And the second institution is the Platform of European Remembrance and Conscience. Here I will just mention that my deputy, Dr. Paweł Ukielski, was elected for the second time last year to the authorities of this organization, bringing together more than 50 institutions and organisations from all over Europe. Another area is historical dialogue. Here, of course, in recent years the most important is the Polish-Ukrainian dialogue. Last year the Polish-Ukrainian Historical Forum was established, established by the Polish Institute of National Remembrance and the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance. This dialogue has begun. It's very difficult, but it's rolling. I think it is an essential condition for a future real reconciliation between our peoples. Another area of activity abroad is support for Poles outside the country. I've already mentioned support for archival institutions. I will supplement this by saying that the second basic area of this activity is support for educational institutions, for Polish schools operating outside the country. This support is carried out both through the provision of educational material and through training, which is probably extremely important. We train Polish teachers, inviting them to Poland, but also send our educators e.g. for Polish educational conventions in America, where there is an opportunity to conduct workshops for a large group of people of this type. The last area is the dissemination of knowledge about Polish history outside the country. This is an important element of the recent public debate on the protection of good name. In my opinion, this foundation must be an active activity for knowledge of Polish history. I've already talked about international scientific conferences. Our historians participate in conferences abroad This is a form of reaching out to the scientific community, which is important for the formulation of these ideas. But we also try to work with teachers. Last year there was a second training for 25 history teachers from Europe called Poland at the heart of European history. We are trying to show Polish perspective on the most important events in the history of the 20th century. We are active on the Internet, some of our portals have foreign Internet versions. Last year, I would like to stress, another two language versions of the Truth About Camps portal were added. This is a portal which in such a very short, but serious form presents the history of German concentration camps, German extermination camps in occupied Poland. The context of this portal is obvious. As an example of another form of activity in the dissemination of Polish history outside the country, I would like to mention the announcement that we managed to include in the Komsomol Truth. This year, it was not possible to repeat it, but last year, once, on the 70th anniversary of the kidnapping and trial of 16 leaders of the Underground Poland, we placed an announcement on this subject, which reflected quite a lot of interest in Russia. Even if someone was negative about it, at least he knew some basic facts. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, in a few days it will be 16 years since the Institute of National Remembrance exists. All this time we try in various forms, often changing them under the influence of experience, to carry out the same basic mission that has been set before us. A mission that I believe is best expressed in the preamble to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. These are words that we try to remember quite often. Allow me to quote them. In creating the Institute of National Remembrance, the parliament of the Republic of Poland had in mind: to preserve the memory of the great sacrifices, losses and damages suffered by the Polish people during and after the Second World War; the patriotic traditions of the struggle between the Polish people and the invaders, Nazism and communism; the actions of citizens in favour of the independent existence of the Polish State and in defence of freedom and human dignity; the obligation to prosecute crimes against peace, humanity and war crimes, and the obligation to make amends by our country to all those who have been wronged by the state violating human rights. It was also held that no unlawful action by the State against citizens could be protected by a secret or be forgotten. This mission, the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, is primarily aimed at the past, but I believe that it is also an important factor in the co-formation of our present, and in fact many elements of our activity are directed towards the future. What the Institute of National Remembrance is doing is primarily fulfilling our common duty to the heroes of Polish history and to the victims of totalitarian systems. The formation of memory is a fundamental element of shaping the Polish identity, because we will not understand ourselves as a nation without knowing our own past. But this past also allows us to understand the present, to understand contemporary Poland, to understand the modern world. An important element of our work is the formation of attitudes. We resemble the attitudes of people who opposed totalitarian systems, opposed the invaders. I am convinced that this is how we shape our attitudes and, you can say, we even make certain demands, and not only to the representatives of the young generation. I think this memory of the past carries some commitments for all of us. And it carries something else, something very important. Speaking of the past of Poland in the 20th century, we are really talking about values, values accompanying people we remember. These are the values we need equally today in our contemporary Polish life. And it's not just the values that we try to show to others as the Institute of National Remembrance. These are the values on which we try to base our daily work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for providing extensive information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance last year. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. President any questions? Senator Dorota Sagatowska. You're welcome. [[She's gorgeous.]] I'm sorry, Chubby. I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, thanking you for the comprehensive, beautiful report, I would like to ask you about the present. I think I hear the National Remembrance Institute is preparing some material for the World Youth Day. Could you zoom in on what it's gonna be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u5	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u6	Yes, indeed. Last year we agreed with the organizational committee that we would prepare a brochure on the history of Poland in the 20th century, in accordance with our statutory competence. At the end of the year, the idea of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs appeared to cover the whole Polish history. We decided to cooperate because, for organisational reasons, it would be difficult to deliver 2 such materials to participants. So that actually together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we publish a brochure about Polish history, it is a guide to Polish history since 966. Of course, this is absolutely the starting point. This is an incentive to get to know the Polish history, because the assumption was that the whole material would be 2 sheets, i.e. 40 pages of the manuscript. I admit, we haven't been able to keep these assumptions completely, but... It is a small brochure, but it will be published in all official 9 languages of the World Youth Day and first delivered at the diocesan stage and later will be available in Krakow. In addition, of course, our Krakow branch is preparing other educational initiatives related to World Youth Day. [[Thank you very much, Mr...]] [[Will it be in the virtual version too?]] We will think about that because there is a question of copyright for illustration. Because in order for this brochure to be attractive, there are a lot of illustrations and not all of our resources, for obvious reasons, because we have in particular a few illustrations from outside the 20th century, so that... But if we can solve the copyright problem, we will want it to be available in an electronic version as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is Professor Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u8	Thank you very much. Of course, I'd like to ask thousands of questions, but we're not alone in this room, so I can't take part in this part as much as I'd like, but two questions at the beginning. Maybe I'll let you ask me another one in the next round. Namely, for us as senators, a very important issue is a restricted collection. I, of course, don't want to ask about its contents, but I would like to ask the opposite question. Namely every year This is also evident in this report. The next parts of this collection are revealed and passed on to the public collection, and we can already talk about the open collection. A great request, if the President could give us examples of the teams or categories of files that have been disclosed, so that we realized what this collection was reserved for disclosure. That's the first question. The second also concerns what we are very interested in here in the Senate and what you mentioned, namely the Programme of the Polish Public Education Office. Especially for our committee, whose chair is Janina Sagatowska, this information and this experience of the Institute of National Remembrance, almost 10 years old, are very important. From this experience there are some conclusions on real opportunities for impact on education, especially on Polish education on emigration. If the president could, we would ask him to share with us this experience of the Institute of National Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u9	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u10	Thank you. As for the proprietary collection, because of the amount of materials that left this collection last year, which is about half of everything that came out of the reserved collection from the beginning, I can actually operate only with certain categories, not with specific examples. The first category, the biggest one, I think, or one of the bigger ones, is the officers' personnel files. It is evident that in the creation of this proprietary set a lot of documentation concerning the former officers was placed there. Another group are various types of materials concerning the internal functioning of the Security Service, personal orders, the functioning of certain parts of the operational fund, because a large part of it has been in the public collection for a long time. And finally, third category These are people's work. Of course, there is also a group of agents, i.e. secret co-workers of various branches of the communist security apparatus. If I were to try to draw any conclusions from the analysis of those materials that left the restricted collection last year, the basic conclusion is that it is really difficult to understand how these materials fulfilled the statutory definition that allowed it to be included in the restricted collection, and I would remind you that it states that there could be material relevant to the security of the State. In either case, I don't see how they could have been. Whether it's 15 years ago or today it's important from the point of view of state security. As regards the Polonia programme, initiated in time Mr. Senator didn't modestly add When the senator was the director of the Office of Public Education of the Institute of National Remembrance, the conclusions of a general nature, I think, can be brought to the fact that there is a huge need to support Polish education outside the country. In recent years, we've been able to do it. much more than before, but it's still almost a drop in the sea of needs. That's one thing. Secondly, this support must be targeted at the specificities of Polish institutions, which are mostly not full-time schools, a few of them these are Saturday schools, whose task is to pass on the basic elements of Polish history, language and culture to the next generation of Poles born on the other hand. And here we need not only to use what we have, but in fact to create new educational materials for these schools and to train teachers in this way, not so much as to teach history in general as to indicate how to teach in such a specific, often very difficult situation, when some of these young people, for example. In the United States, he has already spoken Polish to a small extent. So that's, I think, two basic conclusions. The third is my personal application, resulting from certain experiences, because I, too, during foreign visits, always where there was a possibility, tried to visit these schools and conduct some youth activities. I don't know if we should cross a certain psychological barrier, that's the language barrier. Because our entire offer, not only of the institute, but of the Polish state, is an offer in Polish. The question is, will we accept the possibility that, as in the United States, To follow this example There are people who are in the fifth generation of Italy and know that they are Italian, but they only know a few words in Italian... Should we not accept that this will be the case with Poles, at least with a large part of them? And that's what's causing the consequences. Perhaps you need to start thinking, for example. about bilingual materials, not only about educational materials in Polish. Isn't this the way to maintain a certain bond between some of these young people and Polishness, at least with some basis? It's kind of my own idea, I didn't agree with Director Zawistowski, who's responsible for the Polish program. But that was my impression, especially after meeting with Polish youth in the United States.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll continue with the educational agenda. Mr President, thank you very much for the programs that you are implementing among Polish young people. I have one question about whether you are cooperating with the Ministry of Education in the development of new curricula, which we are all aware of, should place greater emphasis on the latest history of Poland. This story that children and young people could verify in their environments, especially in the family environment. Would your contribution to these programmes be effective in this policy? Because that is how I see it, that this should be the basis of the state's historical policy, in order first of all to shape the awareness of the youngest generation of citizens. The second question concerns foreign issues. What, in your opinion, are the most effective tools and whether the IPN could have such tools in the fight against false information For example, concerning the times of World War II, which are promoted in different countries of the world? The third question is what you were talking about, Mr President, which is a law that will finally allow the names of the streets to be changed, the traces of the infamous history of the times of communism to be removed. Does the administrative action provided for by the Act In my opinion, they are necessary and, on an administrative matter, they seem sufficient Shouldn't you join the increased activity of the Institute of National Remembrance in order to raise awareness also in the young generation? I would like to bring about such a situation that young people themselves will seek to change the address of their family's check-in. As an example, I will give one of the schools from which young people appeared after decades of high school existence, with the fact that they no longer want to learn the name Hank Sawicka in high school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u13	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u14	Thank you kindly. As far as cooperation with the Ministry of National Education is concerned in the creation of new programmes, I understand that the current work of the Ministry is focused on reflection, in general on the school structure and setting a certain direction. I don't think there's been any programming yet. Of course, we will be happy to share our experience. I am convinced that we have a lot to do after these 15 years of educational activity. If I were now asked how to shape this program, I would point out that perhaps we also need to change some proportions and pay more attention to those periods of our history which have a special impact on understanding the present, namely, let's say, the 19th and 20th centuries. Because so far we have such a very traditional, roughly proportional division into different ages. And what we can bring, of course, is not only some suggestions, on what topics, on what topics After all, it will be necessary to choose only some of them, but also, I think, the practical experience which education methods work out, i.e. how to enrich the school education programme with such a less standard approach. It seems to me that education in places of national memory could be permanently included in the curriculum. That's what I was talking about earlier, it's touching history, because it's also often happening this way. It is often very moving for us, when a group of students, who are still on the bus mostly dealing with their mobile phones, comes to a memorial place and then quiets down, and you can see that this story just affects these students, even if they knew it from a textbook or from a historian's lecture. So that this experience could certainly be used for this type of work on a new programming basis. The most effective tool is culture, for example a film, and unfortunately, I'm afraid, since we're talking about a feature film, the shaping of imagination. Yes, we see how many countries have shaped their image through film. And these are often not countries that have enormous potential in themselves. Take Ireland, for example. How many films are there about the beautiful Irish history, the struggle for freedom, filmed in the United States. Such films shape the idea of history, and to a large extent also of today's Ireland. We try to reach out to such cultural tools, but when we talk about reaching abroad, our capabilities are limited, although we are also trying to do something about it. We already have an advanced project of a short drawing film about the Polish history of the 20th century, such a film coming out until the Solidarity to present Polish history in such a pill. As far as the law on street names is concerned, I forgot, or maybe it is worth mentioning, because this is a special thing: it is worth remembering that last year, as a result of the actions of the Institute of National Remembrance, the last street of Bolesław Bierut disappeared in Poland. I, to tell you the truth, didn't even realize there could still be a street like this. The street name of one of the biggest criminals in our history. In fact, in the project, the patrons of our streets meet with a great commitment of young people. This is the example that the senator was talking about: young people are increasingly unable to reconcile with such names.Maybe for an older generation it's just a matter of habit; there's a patron, probably bad, but everyone gets used to it. And the young people see this contrast, so that it's really unthinkable. For if we worship sacrifices, we cannot worship the perpetrators at the same time. So that young people already engage in cooperation with us, although the problem of school patrons will probably be difficult and will require a solution for many years. But in a situation of good cooperation not only with the students, but also with the teachers and in general with the school community, I am confident that it will be resolved. Because it's also common for students to demand good patrons. They are so fascinated by some characters from the latest history of Poland, who will get to know to a large extent thanks to the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, that they demand that they change even some, say, neutral patronage, which has no burden on one that raises positive associations. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u16	Mr. Marshal, Mr. President, I have a question related to a group of victims of World War II, which until recently was silenced, and it was deliberately silenced. It was laid, I would call it that, on the altar of political correctness, memory of them. This is about Poles, but not only, victims of the Ukrainian genocide in the East End of the Republic of Poland during and after World War II. Tell me, maybe I missed it in the report. Is there really so little of what the Institute is doing in this regard? As I say, it is a very specific range, because for a long time overlooked, even intentionally omitted. I would ask to be mentioned from these three main groups, namely education and research, archival activities and prosecution of crimes, projects or activities which the Institute is undertaking in the field of Ukrainian genocide; and would I ask you to determine whether the activities of IPN in this area are sufficient? And if you don't, why, and what's bothering you or what's bothering the institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u17	I'll answer that. Let me draw your attention to the fact that the year 2013 was the 70th anniversary of the crime when it comes to our activities in this area in the nationwide dimension. I think that these actions of the Institute of National Remembrance can be defined in such a way that it was the greatest involvement of the institutions of the Polish state in reminding the crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists and reminding their victims. And then, among other things. We have worked out educational materials for teachers who have been handed over to teachers, so they can use them in their current educational work. This is still the subject of the investigative activity of the Institute of National Remembrance. Some of these investigations have already ended, but some of them, including. Volyn's biggest concern is still going on. These are difficult investigations because of the nature of the crime, where if there are witnesses, they are most often children who cannot identify the perpetrators in the name sense. Although it should be assumed that in some cases the perpetrators are still alive, it is likely that they will not be possible to bring them to justice, except perhaps one case concerning the Lublin region. There's work going on to prove the connection between one of the potential criminals... He lives in the United States right now, so he can be released to Poland and stand trial. We just need to prove that it's the same person that's not easy, but we're hoping for good cooperation from the American side. Last year two exhibitions of the Institute of National Remembrance devoted to the Volyn crime were presented repeatedly: one prepared by the Szczecin branch, the other prepared by the Lublin branch. Other educational activities are often accompanied by these exhibitions. From the scientific publications published last year, I will remind you of the publication of Dr Mariusz Zajączkowski devoted, in fact, to the structures of Ukrainian nationalists in the Lublin region, but clearly it also refers to the crimes committed. To answer the senator's final question, it's definitely one of them. I'm sorry. A number of areas for which it cannot be considered as sufficient activity. It's like we're making up for lost time all the time, and I'm sure the institute could do more here. What do we need? In this case, mostly people. I will also mention that the project documenting the names of the victims, which has been running for many years, as well as the fact that other books are being published... This is also an important road in this, say, beginning Polish-Ukrainian dialogue. Several publications have already been published, which describe very detailed events at the level of even the commune with names of victims. Because this is the best starting point for even the hardest conversation, hard facts: who was the victim and who was the perpetrator. So that these activities are ongoing, but they should certainly be carried out to a wider extent, but not only in this area. In general, the area of World War II, and this is not only a comment relating to the Institute of National Remembrance, has been neglected for the past twenty years, for example in terms of scientific research. We can even talk about a generational gap of researchers dealing with different aspects or particular occupations or specific crimes. We have been trying to fill this gap for many years, but it is not easy, it is very difficult to find young historians who still know foreign languages who would like to take this kind of action. And in addition, I would add that, of course, as part of our archival cooperation with Ukraine, we are also trying to obtain documents concerning these crimes, although this is difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u18	Thank you. Senator Grażyna Shark. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would first of all like to join you in thanking you for the full and good presentation of information about the activities of IPN. Because I think it's probably our last meeting with you. At least in the capacity and role you have played so far in the Senate The more I would like to bow my head and thank you for your cooperation so far. And a question. Mr President, for the year 2016 I believe that this is one of the most important issues Is there a secure means of searching for and identifying the murdered, especially during Stalin's terror? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u20	Thank you. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u21	Thank you so much for that question. As far as the search funds are concerned, yes, I do not see any risks here, this budget is at this moment even less used than it is due to the passage of time. However, from the very beginning of this project the problem is to provide stable sources of funding for the identification process, which, I will remind you, is currently taking place mainly in the Polish Genetic Base of Victims of Totalitarianism in Szczecin, established jointly by the IPN and the Pomeranian Medical University, although it cooperates with it. The Institute of Judicial Experts from Krakow, so that there are more of these institutions. Until now, the institute could finance these studies where they were commissioned in the course of investigations. Because many of these research work as soon as the remains have been found comes into the prosecution regime, and then there is no problem with spending money on appropriate experts' expertise in identification. But we have to remember that there are many situations when there is no such investigation, so there is no direct legal basis. She's coming along with the new bill right now. And I hope that, in accordance with the relevant provision of this law, we will simply obtain budgetary reinforcement, which will be needed not only for this identification process, but also for the expansion of the search vertical, which at the moment exists practically only in the headquarters, although there are also persons responsible in the branches, but these are individuals, I would say, supporting. The new law sets up a whole new section of search and identification. I'd like to see another authority in the institute be able to strengthen it in personnel. We are therefore preparing to address the Prime Minister with a request for a transfer of funds. So that's the situation today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Jan Żaryn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Another portion of such questions, which also concern your view, Mr President, about, among others. certain weaknesses that are at the Institute of National Remembrance. Let's start with this weakness that's not wrapped up, or at least from my perspective, it's hard to find the guilty one, but she is. I mean the effectiveness of the Institute of National Remembrance in publishing and distribution. Indeed, the Institute of National Remembrance has been publishing about 150 and 200 books every year since 2006 at least. These items in the scientific circulation are present, can be read from quoting the IPN items in other publications published throughout the territory of the Polish state by various scientific publications. And you can say that the Institute of National Remembrance is a hegemon, when it comes to scientific, publishing activities, is a hegemon, when it comes to the presence of scientific positions not only on the market or not primarily on the market, but especially in the minds of scientists. However, there is a terrible barrier when it comes to the possibility of reaching a wider audience, so that this scientific effect, rather than in the educational sphere, is also consumed by readers. How do you see this difference in 2015 between potential and publishing and distribution effects? That's the first question. The second question concerns the question of the investigation. But I'm not talking about those investigations that were completed specifically in 2015. As we know very well, very important anniversaries are coming. One is the Kielce anniversary, the other is the events in Jedwabne. And both investigations that have been conducted in these cases are of great importance, but also certain deficiencies. The point is whether the Kielce investigation conducted by prosecutor Falkiewicz ended several years ago... Is there a chance, from the point of view of finding new leads, new leads, also new testimony, to reopen this investigation? Or at least can you, Mr President, today announce that, according to the IPN opinion, this is not excluded? It seems to me that such a word would have been appropriate before this anniversary. As far as Silke is concerned, of course, it would be all the more legitimate. Because, as we know, for non-essential reasons, it's been inhibited... And I would therefore like to ask whether there is also such a chance here, or whether the IPN, the investigative unit, is carrying out any action that would aim to unlock the earlier decision taken by the sleeper. Lech Kaczyński as Minister of Justice. And the third question. You mentioned a project, which is very, very close to me personally, i.e. the project, Index. We will congratulate you and the Institute of National Remembrance here too much, because this institution is simply the right one, and you personally too, and among these issues will be among others. this very important field of research, concerning Poles saving Jews. I would like you, to be brief, to brag to us about what the above-mentioned Index project looks like in practice. How many names have we ID'd? How deep is that identification? And, as you know, it's a living project, it's not finished, so how do you see it when it comes to the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u24	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u25	Thank you. Maybe I'll start with the last question. This is a very important project, but also very difficult. I can only tell the senators, who are less than the professor introduced on this point, that the aim of this project is to identify all the facts of repression. Of course, above all those ended with death, but not only those connected with imprisonment, concentration camp, etc. Who met Polish citizens for helping the Jewish people. The difficulties associated with all of this are, above all, the source difficulties, i.e. due to the incomplete preservation of documents created by the occupier or the imprecise level of relations, which unfortunately often end up on a general indication, even without a name, without a name, that some fact of repression took place. And this is a project that we carry out together with the Chief Directorate of State Archives, while the main contractor is always some non-governmental organization. Maybe not to get into the details, let me say this: from the present perspective these few years did not bring the expected fruit. The achievement of this project, if I remember correctly, is to collect data, but before verification, about 6,000 500 cases of repression. At the moment, however, we are focused, just a little bit in connection with the exhaustion of source capabilities, and from German archives, and others... We tried to use various kinds of studies. All these materials are already being collected. And now... These are also the assumptions of the next competition, which has already been announced That the main objective of the contractor will be to verify, merge the data in order to be able to publish further publications. Because the first volume on several hundred facts of repression Some of them included whole families, so the people in question were more than that already released, in an electronic version, last year. We deliberately publish first in an electronic version, hoping that the dissemination of this knowledge will trigger some further reactions, a flow of new information on a given subject. And as for the two issues that the senator, so to speak, has qualified for the weakness of the Institute of National Remembrance regarding the two investigations into Kielce and Silk, then... First of all, I must warn you that the president of the institute has always had a weak position vis-à-vis prosecutors, and now there is no President's last right, i.e. to participate in the process of electing the director of the committee, was taken away by the amendment of the law on the prosecutor's office. I can't speak on behalf of our prosecutors, so I'll speak more as president of the institute and as historian. In the end, it will always be the decision of a particular prosecutor whether he considers that the new material is sufficient and justifies the reopening of the proceedings. As far as Kielce is concerned, in part in this context we are organising a discussion of historians on 4 June. We're gonna be asking if there's any new threads... Otherwise, are there threads that have not been studied sufficiently. I know that this problem will be discussed very seriously, and we will be wondering if there are new sources. I'm convinced that if historians point out such themes, the prosecutors will consider them very seriously. I don't know how that's possible with Silky. Here, like... Perhaps because this is not the area of history that I have personally dealt with in the past, it is harder for me to estimate the chances of this kind of work. The question is whether the fact that the exhumation wasn't completed would be enough for the prosecutor. I don't think there are any very wide, new sources in recent years, especially when we're talking about archival sources, but it's always up to the prosecutor to decide on exhumation, analysis of the remains found, etc. And the issue of distribution, and basically distribution problems. I would like to start by saying that this situation is not easy, but it is improving because of several reasons. Two basic errors were made by the temporary management of the Institute at the turn of 2010 and 2011, when all the distribution contracts held by the Institute of National Remembrance at that time were broken, instead of being assigned to the Institute of National Remembrance for the liquidation of the auxiliary holding. This meant that when I took office in June 2011, there was not a single point... I mean, there was, uh, exactly one at headquarters. It was there that publications could be purchased. That's the first problem. The second problem is more universal The abolition of zero VAT rates on books, which has changed the publishing market in Poland, has led to its collapse to some extent and the liquidation of many booksellers. The book's circulation has become shorter. There are 90 days when someone has to pay VAT for this book. Everyone avoids it, which makes booksellers reluctant to take scientific literature. Nevertheless, we managed to rebuild the distribution network quite widely, also in the dimension of the scientific book. I think it's wider than a network, for example. universities, which are in the same situation, and in fact because they deal with different fields of science, print even more titles than the institute. I don't think any Polish university has a better distribution than the Institute of National Remembrance. We are online, and at the moment more than half of the turnover in the book market are online bookstores. The position of the institute is sufficient here. Last year we sold I am not talking about distribution, and some publications, especially educational ones, are distributed 20,000 more publications than in 2009. So I think that... oh, one more solution that we've been using since last year. The Institute's own bookstores. At the moment there are 3 such: 2 in Warsaw, 1 in Gdańsk. In the coming days the new IPN branch building in Lublin will be put into service and there will also be such an author's IPN bookshop. That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u26	Thank you. Now let me ask you a question. Mr President, I have recently been with a Senate delegation in the vineyard region, which is also on the former Podol, where Poles lived in the pre-war period and earlier. Now there is a large Polish minority, but the important thing is that in the interwar years Poles lived there. The law enforcement authorities of the Rad country conducted the so-called. 101 thousand 400 Poles were shot as part of this action. I'm talking about this number to show the proportions, even when compared to the war period. The NKVD and other law enforcement agencies of this repressive state were very often located in old monasteries, in church buildings because there are thick walls and vast undergrounds. And during this visit I learned that during the renovations of these sacral objects, re-transmitted to the Catholic Church, they were transported or intended to carry out dozens of trucks of human bones. In the Bar, the priori of the feminine order informed me that the bones were covered with lime. Those bones aren't there anymore, they've been exported. In Kamieniec Podolski in the Dominican church, which is being renovated at the moment, I met Polish conservators, from whom I heard that there are also decks of calcified bones. The parish priest, paulin, because this is a church taken over by paulins, is going to transport these bones and bury them properly. A similar situation took place in Kamieniec Podolski in the Dominican complex, i.e. in the complex of the feminine order. There the bishop said that 40 cars of human bones were taken away. At the same time, Polish conservators told me that the parish priests who are responsible for these renovations, although of course it is very heavy on them, do not inform and do not intend to inform the investigative institutions because they want to carry out these renovations quickly and efficiently, and any investigation of such work interferes and delays. This is information for you. Now, here's the question. Can an IPN that has received new powers decide its own investigations in this area? The problem is that if you don't investigate, you don't document, you destroy the evidence of this crime. And the victims of the crime, it is very likely, could be Poles murdered in the framework of the mentioned Polish action in the 1930s. That is the question for you and, at the same time, a call for this matter to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u27	Thank you very much. Indeed, at this point the situation is changing, because so far we have been able to deal with the Polish NKVD action mainly in the research, partly educational, archival dimension. Because I will remind you that the Institute has gathered, in the area of Soviet Ukraine, practically a set of documents concerning the operation of the Polish NKVD. In recent years we have also obtained such documents from Georgia. These are such forgotten episodes, because it is not only Ukraine, it is not only Belarus. And at the moment we can conduct investigations ourselves also concerning crimes committed in the 1930s, committed also outside Poland. Except that all investigative activities within the country must be carried out with the consent or through the prosecutor's office there. So that it is not so that the Polish prosecutor can go and, without obtaining the consent of the prosecution, e.g. Ukrainian, conduct any activities. So that here it will require agreement with the Ukrainian party. I am so passionate about what we can do to at least stop this process. And perhaps the best way will be to address the apostolic nuncio and try to use the church path, because as such Ukraine does not investigate crimes from the 1930s, as far as I know. Thus, even merely addressing Ukrainian law enforcement authorities will not lead to the initiation of a Ukrainian investigation into this matter. But of course we won't ignore that signal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u28	Thank you. Senator Janina Sagatowska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to ask you about the matter of the documentation that was obtained from Mrs. Kiszczak. At what stage are research work on this material? 'Cause it's kind of quiet about this. The public was then almost alerted that something was happening, and now it's completely quiet about it. Was it recovered or acquired, but what happens to it? Is there any research, evaluation of these documents, etc.? I would like to ask what stage the work at the IPN is at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u30	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u31	In terms of historical research, of course, this work has been going on since the release of documents in our archive, and these documents are analysed not only by historians employed at the institute, but also by others. And if we're talking about research in the field of forensics as part of an investigation, then if I'm not mistaken, And here I am looking at your prosecutor, who will be able to correct it, is already issued a resolution and materials have been transferred to the Sehna Institute in Cracow to carry out all the research, more, let's say, physiochemical; not historical analyses, but, let's say, research of these documents in the course of the ongoing investigation. So that the experts inform us that it will be a multi-month, complicated study, because specialists are needed in various fields, and many activities have to be done. So that it will take a few more months before we can inform the public about the results of the expert work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u32	Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! The question is about decommunization of the public sphere. One part of us has already been sort of settled, at least as far as legal issues related to street names are concerned. But there is something that once again explodes in front of the public, namely the issue of symbolic commemorations, monuments. And here's the question: does the current state of law allow the removal of monuments from public space? Did you make a list of such commemorations as you made a list of streets? By the way, I got it. Very interesting reading, thank you to the President. And if you have such a list, will you use it, for example. Just like before the list of streets, I mean to go to the communes with a request, I don't know. 'Cause with a warrant, maybe not, but with a clear request. For the removal of such a commemoration rather than another from the area of a given municipality? And I know that there was also an action to find a resting place for these memorials. How did it end, or is there such a place?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u34	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u35	Thank you very much. When it comes to legal status, there are no legal obstacles to removing monuments that are outside cemeteries. However, this is at the disposal of local authorities in the vast majority of cases. There are individual monuments that stand, for example. in the territory under the State Forests, but these are rather exceptional situations; most such monuments are at the disposal of local governments and it is enough to remove them by a resolution of the municipal council on their removal. But legal obstacles, e.g. in international agreements, in my opinion there is no, of course they are binding, as regards monuments in cemeteries, there really are no changes without agreement with the party, in this case, Russian cannot be made. We are now gathering whether we already have information from all over the country, preparing a list of all such commemorations. The next step will be to address all local governments Just like this street action, with reasons why monuments worshiping the Red Army, the Soviet army, should not be in Poland. I think it's understandable for all of us, but unfortunately, we still have to explain it. And because we can't help the local governments much, besides providing arguments, what we can do. That's the last part of the senator's question. It is the creation of a place where these monuments can be given back. Because one of the problems that local governments raised when we talked about it before was that they really didn't know what to do with this monument later, whether to keep it in some warehouse or to give it to someone, the Kozłówka museum doesn't accept new monuments anymore, so there is actually no such place. We have two selected at the moment, these are the Red Bor and Borne Sulinowo, and in the coming days we will pre-choose one of them, although probably binding contracts will already be signed by the new management of the institute. We want to create a place that will not only be, say, a warehouse of these monuments, but a form of museum where it will be reminded of what history lies behind these monuments, meaning Soviet occupation, Soviet domination in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u36	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on all these activities and your activities, which have come to such interesting times. You have operated a very important institution of public life, an institution of public trust, and I would like to thank you very warmly for this time. The question I have is perhaps beyond the chronology of this report that you have submitted to us today, but this matter is of interest to the public, at least a significant part of the public opinion. Namely, we received news from the press that the documents found at Wojciech Jaruzelski's house are unknown so far, which could explain many elements of his political biography, especially since the second half of the 1940s and in the 1950s. I know this is a prosecutor's case, so you have some limited opportunities to provide information about it, but what could you say about this resource, as well as that resource that was found in Czesław Kiszczak's villa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u39	Thank you kindly. As far as I'm concerned... Maybe I'll start at the end with Czesław Kiszczak. This material, which was subject by law to the transfer to the Institute of National Remembrance, is already available. Well, of course, the material that enjoyed the greatest public interest, but it was also the most important from a historical point of view, were mostly the files of a secret collaborator with the pseudonym Bolek. At the moment, there is a group of materials occupied during the prosecution in this apartment that are waiting for an explanation of their status. In addition to the legal basis for such, I would say the strong acquisition of materials has soft tools, we are going to ask the family to agree to take some further materials. If we do not receive this consent, we will simply leave copies and these copies will be available to researchers. As regards the material concerning Wojciech Jaruzelski, I could not answer the senator's question literally the day before yesterday, but since yesterday I can, because again this part, which is being handed over, has already been placed on my hands and today we will inform the public when this material will be available to all entitled, i.e. above all journalists and researchers. And as far as General Jaruzelski is concerned personally, in this material there are two versions of his registration book of the Polish Army soldier. And let me remind you that there is a third version of the same formal document in our resource. This was already the subject of historical analysis by Dr. Piotr Gontarczyk, who assumed that this briefcase, which was so far in stock, was somehow prepared. Well, now there's obvious evidence. But in advance of a possible supplementary question, I will say that there is no act of a secret collaborator of Military Information nickname "Wolski." This type of materials It's not there. Other materials... There dominate the materials that Wojciech Jaruzelski collected for his defense. There are many different types of original or copies of reports concerning Soviet reactions to the crisis in Poland in 1980 and 1981; I think some of them will be really interesting. Some are documents that were already known to historians from some other versions, but I have an impression After, of course, such a very rapid review, literally a few minutes. That some of the documents are new documents. There are also several documents or copies of documents concerning the destruction of the KC PZPR Political Bureau file at the beginning of 1990.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u40	Thank you. Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u41	I have more questions. The first concerns a matter that has not yet been raised. You said that there was a very large discrepancy in the situation between the conclusions that need to be implemented and those that have actually been implemented. As I noted, 56,000 were completed in 2015... [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Polish Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals Łukasz Kaminski: Sorry, that's a total.]] In total? Oh, that's right. I'd like to ask you what the number is, so we're clear. But I'm talking about the imbalance. There has already been some experience in this matter, because the illustrious pawn has been operating for several years. Is there a statutory error that causes the Institute of National Remembrance to be unable to carry out this task, or is it just an error of the Institute in the sense that there are not enough jobs, not enough people to undertake this task, and simply need to increase the budget of the Institute of National Remembrance in this regard? But if so, it is worth making it clear that, as parliamentarians, we should know why we should vote in favour of possibly increased IPN contributions. Is this a problem that cannot be solved well? I am returning to this issue of statutory error because the avalanche of these proposals is so huge that de facto the next municipal elections take place earlier than the practical verification of statements, and therefore it is necessary to give up and possibly narrow down the scope of the obligations of the Institute of National Remembrance? Second question, also concerning the mirror vertical. Is it clear from the perspective of 2015 that this dynamic of additions is ending, and in the case of any catalog, can it be determined when it will be de facto closed as a task of the Institute of National Remembrance? And the third question, in order to maintain the tradition of three questions, is the archival vertical. This process of digitisation, which exists, is extremely important and we all thank the IPN again, and Mr President, and Director Leśkiewicz, who had direct custody of it. But my question is: to what extent this task, i.e. digitisation, is compatible Or maybe it's even possible for him to work together at all. With faster, faster and more dynamic sharing of archive materials? In your opinion, Mr President, must there be other conditions, independent of digitisation, which would create the capacity of the Institute of National Remembrance comparable to the ability of the Archive of New Acts or other state archives to share the files ordered on an ongoing basis?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u42	Thank you very much. [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Polish Crime Investigation Commission Lukasz Kaminski: Thank you kindly.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u43	As regards the question of illustrative statements, in order to show this increase, I would like to mention that in 2010 after the general elections, 150,000 new illustrative statements came into existence. I don't count the statements I've made before and after the last 70,000. So for this 370,000, 220 grand, it's about the local elections, of which about 85.90%. These are statements by persons who have not been selected by voters for any functions in the authorities of the municipality. Surely, if the Institute were to receive some significant new resources, especially on a permanent basis, some growth would be possible. But this isn't just about the mirrors. The archive would also have to be very reinforced, because, as I said before, it all depends on the archive. In my opinion, from an organisational, technical point of view, certain barriers related to the fact that the final decisions of the prosecutor are taken on the basis of a view of the original documents, not e.g. documents in digital form, that would not be enough. A certain acceleration Let's say, of those 10,000 a year to 15,000 verified claims. It could be achieved, but this will not solve the problem. In my opinion, however, the solutions are in the legal sphere. If there was such a solution, that the obligation to make a statement would be left. After all, such a person may later assume a different function But the Institute would not be obliged to verify this statement until any function is taken up, it would actually make it possible, within a few years, in this area, apart from those unelected local authorities, to carry it out, i.e. simply to verify all statements. And that's the point of judging, that you have to verify them all so that no one has the feeling that they're going to lose themselves in this crowd and can lie with impunity. As for the catalogues, I forgot to mention it last year. We have introduced 12,000 500 new people and biographies into these three historical catalogs. You can't just... I mean, one of them is open by design, that's a directory of people being worked out. He also depends on obtaining consent. I think he'll always be expanded. There's already a very advanced catalogue of officers, but I wouldn't dare say at the moment, for example, because the files come out of a restricted set when it's closed. And I think it's only after that that that's gonna be a catalogue of party-state officers, so I'm gonna simplify it. When it comes to digitalization, I'd like to say two things. One: At the moment, no archive in the world, except for a small one, does not seek to digitize the collections 100%, which is related to technical barriers to storage of huge amounts of data and economic costs. And neither do we intend to ultimately digitize the entire harvest, if most of it is not used on an ongoing basis, only on an ad hoc basis, and some are not being used at all by anyone at the moment. We digitize these materials that are at risk of destruction, so as to make electronic copies available, and those that are most interested, so that it is possible, for example. sharing the same materials with several persons at the same time. This undoubtedly supports the sharing process. At the moment, more than half of all materials are made available electronically. This makes it easier, for example. The use of the materials from the Warsaw archive uses the historian in Bialystok, he doesn't have to come, he can get them in an electronic version. The second thing is that the Institute of National Remembrance has already reached a technical readiness to implement something that I predicted 5 years ago, i.e. remotely sharing, of course, while maintaining all the encryption conditions, because we have statutory restrictions on whom we can share. But from the technical point of view, we're already capable of sharing material on their computers with remote researchers, while maintaining... Like you can log in to your bank account and don't lose money, you can also Technically, it is already feasible to log in to an account at the institute and browse these files, even without having to go to the reading room.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u44	Thank you. Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u45	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you something. Because the historical knowledge of our young people has recently become much worse, and young people, as we know, are distraught, so historical reconstruction groups have begun to expand on both old and modern history and current history. What does the IPN cooperation with historical reconstruction groups look like and is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u46	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u47	Yes, we work with many of these groups, with some for many years, when it was not such a big and popular movement; e.g. with the group reconstructing the AK group Radosław, probably already, if I'm not mistaken, for 10 years we cooperate in organizing, for example, the Katyn Shadow March. So that in many cases we cooperate, we invite these groups, for example, to various kinds of our educational events, because let's not hide, the attention of young people attracts the fact that there is a reconstructive group that recreates an event. Let me also say that sometimes there are boundaries and I have some doubts about this already massive movement of historical reconstruction today. First of all, of course we all understand that someone has to play the other side, but I feel some anxiety when I see, for example. Waffen-SS reconstructive groups and their commitment to play all the details of the operation of these units. Secondly, in my opinion, not all historical events need to be reconstructed; e.g. There used to be ideas of re-enactment, of these kinds of events, and that, in my opinion, is a step too far. But this cooperation, you can say, is regular at the moment and we are also very much using the aid of historical reconstruction groups.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u48	Thank you. Now I'm on the list, so, excuse me, let me ask you a question. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you this. Andrzej Kołodziej, who applied to work because he wanted to work in the IPN, received an answer that he could not work because he was contaminated by participation in opposition and underground during the period of martial law. And that's my question... I want to tell you that Andrzej Kołodziej wrote the best and most objective monograph on free trade unions a few years ago. And I would wish that the IPN employees would also be as objective as he is, because it happens that they write their thesis, they do not objectively write. In this case, the situation is incomprehensible to me. So let me ask you a question: do you know such employees... Are there people working in the IPN who previously acted in the opposition and then acted in the underground? Are there such persons, or were they, as a rule, unable to be objective, eliminated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u49	Thank you for that question. I'll answer that, but if I'm not mistaken... [[I'm not intervening on a personal matter, but I'll admit that it outraged me, outraged me about that kind of attitude...]] I see. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Marshal is referring to a situation 10 years ago, and maybe even more... This hasn't happened in the last few years. In general, I feel that especially at the beginning, when the institute was established, it was as if it was carefully approached by people who had such experience, which does not mean that such people were not employed and that they were not working at the institute. With the great honour of honoring the President with the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity, I have awarded the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity, I think, a dozen or even more than 20 people working at the Institute. And it's kind of a confirmation of their merits in the anti-communist opposition. In my opinion, such people have their place at the institute because their experience is very important. Sometimes for these young historians, the contact with a colleague, who had just been involved in events before 1989, will be an important experience in terms of research development. At the moment, it is difficult to change this situation, because some mass recruitment institute has not been running for many years. Indeed, if we speak e.g. about scientific height, it is here that formal requirements are already made, such as the possession of a doctorate, scientific achievements, which probably makes it difficult to employ people with such experience.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u50	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. Namely, from what I know, it appears that the catalogue of people who are covered by the illustration is quite broad; the President mentioned that it is several hundred thousand people. I have a question... Because there is a logic in this catalog: there is legislative power or resolution, because councillors are also general legislative power, and there is executive power, because there are government representatives, but also mayors, mayors and local government officials. And here's my question: don't you think that the mirror procedure should also be covered by the third power, the judicial authority? Because it's a profession of public trust. And since two authorities have such an obligation, there is an injustice in the fact that judges do not have such an obligation, all the more so because this catalogue is quite limited; as far as I know, judges of all levels in Poland, from the district to the Supreme Court, is about 12 thousand, so to include this group would not be some huge logistical challenge for the Institute of National Remembrance. So what is the opinion of the President in this regard? Because perhaps it would help to improve the quality of our public life. Thank you. [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Criminal Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals Łukasz Kaminski: Thank you. I'm looking at...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u52	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u53	I'm looking at Principal Karolak to make sure... Yes, the legal professions are covered by... Both prosecutors and judges and lawyers shall be required to make corrigendum statements. [[Oh, I didn't know that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u54	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. And I'm gonna ask Senator Michael the Crowd.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, in the Katowice branch of IPN recently a large amount of force has been trying to recreate documents that have been received or taken over from the State Security Office. These documents were, in short, broken, not completely destroyed, not burned, after the former services of the Polish People's Republic. How much more documents can be reproduced on a national scale, and what steps does the IPN possibly take to speed up this playback or search for documents in such a state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u56	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u57	Thank you kindly. This problem is basically 99% about Katowice. Unfortunately, as I would say, only there were so-called. evacuation bags with pre-prepared materials for destruction. Because it was like the first stage: tearing... The second stage was probably, I don't know, either burning or throwing it in a mill in a paper mill. So it's actually almost just Katowice. At least I'd rather have bags like this in every department and reconstruct these documents. We've been reconstructing them by hand for many years. This can be done because they usually put the whole thing in one bag. So that's a challenge, but we can do it. Some time ago, we considered getting involved in a project run by the German Fraunhofer Institute, which is to digitise such documents and then digitally reproduce them, but we did not decide to engage in this project because the scale of expenditures, the resources that are needed for this, and the contribution of work would not justify this sure but not so much speeding up the process. Because the involvement of people would still be very large, someone would have to pull it out, scan it, etc., and the computer would only connect fragments. What's more, e.g. In the investigation proceedings, because there are documents of an agent nature, the prosecutor would still have to have such a document physically reproduced, so that manual work would have to be done anyway. So that at the moment we continue this by hand play. It's going pretty well. There's a very specialized team out there. Of course, if in the future we were to receive an additional 2 and 3 jobs for this purpose, it would certainly speed up the work significantly. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u58	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Chairman, I have three questions. First question: we used to do this in Jelenia Góra, in cooperation with... This was organized by various associations in cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance, Wrocław branch. This project was called the Faces of the Deer Security. It was that IPN, of course, developed all the material on the basis of the file, and we just organized all of this so that the materials could be made public on the market, on certain boards. By the way, part of the board was destroyed, the city guard was guarding... Are actions like what we did a few years ago still underway today? Or else: can they be e.g. In others... e.g. If my colleagues wanted to do something like this in Bolesławice or Legnica, would it be possible to do it today? That's the first question. The other two questions may be a little less relevant to the report presented here, but I am returning to the bill we passed in the Senate regarding the streets and their names. And here's two things. First question 'Cause a lot of self-governments ask me that, 'cause if that's the way it is, and if that's the way it is, what's the procedure...' Let's just say we're having second thoughts about a name. I'm sitting here alone with a friend of Jan Żaryn's, and sometimes I've got some names... Maybe we didn't argue so much as... The professor has a gigantic knowledge and says that these resumes are sometimes very difficult. Do local government or individual councillors have the opportunity to ask the Institute of National Remembrance for a specific name, and do you do this? That's my second question. And the third question, also in this context. When we passed this law, just about these streets, it was known in advance that the monuments were off, we know why. Nevertheless, I tried to find out. And how many times I've asked that question, so many times I've received a slightly different answer. Or on the basis of this law on the streets... Because it was also about objects... I don't remember that art anymore. One who called it. Does this include the names of patrons, mostly schools? And if you don't, do you see the need to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u60	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u61	Thank you, too. I'm answering the first question. The design of the face of security because it was multiplied in a lot of places in the country It was one of those, I would say, flagship projects during the term of president Janusz Kurtyka. Of course, he continued some time after his tragic death. However, it was not then continued in such a systemic way. This does not mean that these exhibitions do not continue to circulate and that publications do not appear. Because the result of the project is not only exhibitions, but also publications that compile the names of officers. This was partly a natural process, because at the moment, you can say, the summit of this project began the activities of the Mirror Office concerning the creation of a catalogue of officers. And in fact, now this project exists on the Internet in the form of a catalogue of officers. I don't remember exactly, but right now it's almost 50,000 names, along with the course of duty. So that this is the best source at the moment, which of course also allows for e.g. self-create different types of combinations, etc. But of course, in general, we're open... I didn't say much about it, and I didn't actually say anything. We cooperate with NGOs on a large scale. There are really hundreds of organizations we work with every year. So that we welcome any such initiatives with joy, although we always reserve that we can engage in a measure of strength and resources. As for the other two questions about the streets, yes, we are preparing... The law has not yet entered into force, but before it enters into force, we will publish a web page dedicated to this problem. Firstly, there will be dozens of opinions about these most popular names So let's put it this way. PKWN, PPR, Świerczewski street type etc. But secondly, of course, local governments often have these, say, local communists or have doubts about certain people who were cultural people, but were engaged in propaganda. So we're preparing a team right now, so that there's a person in every unit to whom you can ask for an opinion, just a historical opinion, but at this first stage, I'm paying attention to this. This will not be binding opinions, because only after we have exhausted this voluntary path will the voivode ask us for legally binding opinions on the basis of which he will issue an administrative decision to change the street name. So that this is what we will announce in the coming days, because even such questions are coming from some local governments who have doubts. But I have to say that some of them are psychic, but even for that, there's always an educational benefit. Namely, one of the local authorities wanted to change the name of Stefan Okrzei Street and when he received from us a package of information, who Stefan Okrzej was, the councillors said that in that case it was necessary to commemorate him even more, since he and his family were so well deserved for Poland. So that I have the impression that the bill will involve not only administrative activities, but also a large educational value, which was of course not the main intention of adopting it. However, in my opinion, this law unfortunately does not include school patrons, because it concerns objects, and the school is not an object, it is a legal entity, which, in fact, has its own building, but this building is not a name, but a school is a name. I think this bill is a good excuse to pay attention to it, to appeal to local governments to watch the school patrons as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Any of you guys... You're welcome, Senator. Then you're Senator Żaryn. Mr. Senator Oremski, and then Senator Żaryn again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u63	I would like to thank you very much for your work at the institute. Of course, it is difficult to say what is a certain trend, which is the achievements of the IPN. But I have the impression that these last years have actually shown us to a large extent how the Polish People's Republic worked, and a certain myth of Peerel is still crushed, of which I am very happy and for which I thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u64	Just a thank you, right? No question? Okay, Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[You could have asked if the president accepted the thank you.]] [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals Łukasz Kaminski: Thank you very much.]] Now you're asking Professor Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u65	I promise that for the last time I ask, although as I said at the outset, it would take a very long time, because this is a phenomenal institution and it is worth it for the public to know as much as possible about it. Would you, as part of this attempt to make a positive presentation, please, Mr. President? If you have it in your head, it's best now, and if you don't, then I ask you to make it available to us an objective ranking of the greatest achievements? Above all, the achievements in this flagship sphere, namely the activities of the Public Education Office, because this activity is the most recognizable in the public space, which is not only the merit of the employees, but also the competence arrangement described in the Act. This is about the ranking of the greatest achievements in terms of publications, in terms of exhibitions, including the ranking of the greatest achievements from the point of view of perception, i.e. books not only published, but also 10 books best sold or e.g. educational games. I'll leave you to your discretion about this ranking. But if someone told you to tell you in five minutes what was the greatest achievement of the IPN, with particular reference to 2015, from a ranking point of view, what would you say?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u67	This really is a very difficult question, not only because there is so much to achieve, that it is difficult to choose, that it would have to be selected separately in every area of our activity, but also because it places a risk on me, if for example. I'm going to exchange the best books, expose myself to a lot of people who might have a different ranking. So if the senator allows me to answer this question in writing, I will also look at it from this side in a certain balance sheet of the last five years. But you can also look in the perspective of the year, in the perspective of 15 years, in the perspective of 5 years. Some things, in my opinion, are indisputable and will not be controversial. Undoubtedly, in the educational dimension, in the whole perspective of the National Remembrance Institute, the restoration of memory of the Cursed Soldiers is the greatest achievement of the National Remembrance Institute. Of course, we were not the first or the only ones, but in my opinion the role played by the institute is fundamental. I mean, without the institute, there wouldn't be this great wave of memory of the Cursed Soldiers today. From the perspective of 5 years, I see that search and identification work is the most important thing for me, because they have a lot of dimensions. This is justice, bringing justice to these victims, bringing justice to the families. But also the educational dimension, which is not the goal, right? Because we're doing this to find these people, identify them, and bury them with dignity. But there's a huge educational effect. I also say this in the context of Senator Oremski's words about the memory of communism. I don't think any other action has changed that memory that deeply. Because also thanks to the media, which report these works extensively, people illustrate what it meant to introduce a communist system in Poland, as they see the remains of great heroes, people who should be honored and murdered. I'm just going to refer to the sales ranking, which is measurable. As far as games are concerned, it is undoubtedly 100 thousand copies of the game "Kolejka" but also the second 100 thousand, which are already licensed at the moment is produced in many language versions, it is a success, I would say, not only Polish, but almost worldwide, because in many countries of the world this game is already present at the moment. And from the books... [[Excuse me, maybe the president will mention the name of the creator, because it's very important.]] Yes, sir. Karol Madaj, creator of educational games in general, the Institute of National Remembrance, which proved to be a great support for educational activities. Of course, this is only one of many elements, but very important. E.g. The game is often the first step to learning about the history of Squadron 303. And when it comes to books, it's also a popular science book, but I'm in a particularly awkward situation here because I'm a co-author. This is a book from independence to independence. The current circulation is 150,000 copies and a large part has been sold. Of course, it is also distributed free of charge, but a very large part has been sold, i.e. it can be said that it survived market verification. For the rest of my questions, let me prepare a written answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u68	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! One comment à on the question concerning the bill which passed through the Senate. There was an amendment by me, by the way, which extended the subject circle also to organizational units and institutions with communist names, but it was not accepted by the Senate, so we should fight in our own breasts. And the last question concerns the question of defending the good name of Poland. This has already been mentioned here, but I would like the President to answer in detail the 2nd or 3rd questions. First of all, don't you think that in certain cases Besides, I'd call it educational and persuasive. However, the criminal code will have to be launched, perhaps not a criminal code, and criminal rules will have to be applied to those people or editorial offices who have repeatedly spoken to Poland, e.g. the authorship or the running of concentration camps? This, first of all. Secondly, if so, where should there be rules that would standardize it? Is it in the Penal Code or is it in the IPN Act? What do you think? And thirdly, who should be involved in identifying such problems and then chasing them? MFA, IPN or some kind of external specialized institution? Because in some countries it is, there are institutions that care about the good name of a given country, a given nation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u70	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u71	I'll answer that. I do not disregard legal means, although I believe that education is indeed the basis. Because a lot of the problems we're dealing with are just coming from ignorance. Yes? The greater the awareness, just sensitivity to Polish history in the world, the less such cases will be. Here it is especially worth working with elites. Therefore, e.g. I was talking about exhibitions of the Institute of National Remembrance shown outside the country, last year there were more than 70 such exhibitions. A lot of them are e.g. at prestigious American universities. That's where the elites are trained. If these people get to know at least a little bit of this story, they'll be more sensitive to it later. But in my opinion legal measures are also needed, although I have a great doubt about criminal measures as such, because these violations are 99% outside Poland, so real prosecution It's not symbolic, but it's really almost impossible. Any rule of international legal exchange assumes that it is possible to prosecute nationals of other countries, but when the offence in question is also in the criminal code of that State. Otherwise, no state will allow its citizen to be prosecuted. Besides, let's pay attention to the past few years. The loudest statements were those of Barack Obama and James Comey, the head of the FBI. It's hard to imagine us chasing the leader of a friendly state and the head of one of the largest police and intelligence services in the world. Therefore, I believe that the main focus should be on civil means, civil processes, not criminal laws, just the use of civil laws, the defence of good names, the defence of good, which is a certain national dignity, etc. And here it is necessary to move on to the second question The cooperation between the various institutions. Without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this cannot be done because the Ministry has the largest network to collect information about this type of case and this first signaling, enabling reaction. But the Institute of National Remembrance is also needed to provide substantive support in such cases. Examples of the successes that the senator was talking about. In general or even always a party is not a state institution, only social organisations, of course supported by the country, but there are... I don't know, the League Against Defamation isn't an organ of state Israel, it's a social organization founded in the United States, an association that deals with it. So that in my opinion it should be just such a triangle, i.e. at least two institutions of the State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and IPN and a strong social position. As I understand it, we're going a little bit this way, because the regulations that were prepared at the Ministry of Justice were more civil, although certain criminal laws were also introduced. It was, for example. o provisions enabling the Institute of National Remembrance to engage in civil processes as a supporting party. And the last decisions of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, that is, cooperation with one of the international law firms, is also a step in that direction, that it is necessary to go towards civil processes rather than inefficient prosecution of foreigners on the basis of Polish criminal laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u72	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the President another question? You're still a senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. President, such a brief question asking for clarification. After the war there were camps which initially were directed against Germans who remained in Poland, but later, until 1956, also against Polish patriots. What's the scale of the research in this area? Are there any investigations? Because somehow I didn't find that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u74	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u75	I'll answer that. As far as investigations are concerned, there was a large wave of investigations into these camps at the beginning of the Institute of National Remembrance, and there was a large wave of publications on this subject in the first five years. I don't know if there's an active investigation at the moment or if the subject has been exhausted. Every now and then there are new publications... We are dealing with a very serious problem here: as far as prisons are concerned, but forced labour camps are concerned, the state of preservation of sources is very bad. In the case of many of these camps, the main source is the accounts of former prisoners. Moreover, after many of these camps there are no longer any material traces, sometimes it is difficult to determine exactly where the camp was located. So, as I say, the main wave of interest in this issue was the first years of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is now present, but it is absolutely not a leading issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u76	Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. President, in North Mazowsze the public is a little... sensitive to public opinion is a little concerned. I would like you to comment on this camp in Działdów, because this is a matter in which we can talk about a difficult situation. Technically, it wasn't a concentration camp, but it was a camp, a special camp. He was there, among others. Archbishop of Nowowiejski, Bishop of Wetmanski, blessed Roman Catholic Church and many people, especially from northern Mazowsze. This status is indeterminate and there is no form of celebration of this place, there is actually no idea to bring it to this situation. Did the Institute of National Remembrance in any particular way... I know it goes beyond your statutory obligations, but I'd like to ask if there's any idea here, some way to make this heritage worthy of us, which is our historical heritage, a remnant from the time of German occupation, secure for future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u78	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u79	I, of course, am not able to answer precisely, without personally examining these issues as a historian, I am not able to bring in much, but I am looking at your prosecutor and asking if it seems right to me that there was a proceeding in this... [[Director of the Chief Crime Investigation Commission against the Polish National Bogusław Czerwiński: It is conducted.]] It's being conducted, and it's being handled right now, so that's one of the steps. The findings of the investigation are important. And as I said before, even if there is a remission, and there will certainly be a remission due to the death of the perpetrators, this is already an act that has its legal meaning. I believe that now the Institute will be able to engage more deeply in this matter, because we have part of the competence of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom also for permanent commemoration. As part of this new area of activity, I am reporting openness to some can also cooperate, because in my opinion it is worth doing this kind of thing not only from the top, by the state institutions, but just in cooperation with the local community. [[And could you ask for more information about the letter?]] Well, written information, of course, with details of the investigation, also as to whether or not any research activities have been carried out. [[It's a formal condition. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u80	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a question for the president? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Polish Crime Investigation Commission Lukasz Kaminski: Thank you kindly. And will your marshal allow me to make one more sentence?]] Of course. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u81	As the senator pointed out at the very beginning, this is probably our last meeting, at least with me as president of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is why I would like to thank the marshals and all your senators for these many years of cooperation with the Senate which took place. in many fields, ranging from the educational initiatives of the state of senators, which the institute could support through exhibitions organised in the Senate building to many very important legislative initiatives of the Senate. I mean not only this law, which we talked about most today, but also a few others, which the institute had the honour of supporting its substantive opinion. So that I would like to thank you all very warmly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u82	We, too, thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much to President Łukasz Kaminski. I would like to inform you that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Łukasz Kaminski has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[And Jana Zarin.]] And Jana Zarin. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with the senator, Professor Jan Zarin. (Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: Mr. Marshal resigned.) There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u83	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following in the first sentences, and although it should be awkward for me, because I myself have been an employee of this institution for many years, from 2000 to 2015, I will tell you immediately that I am awkward and not awkward. Namely, ladies and gentlemen, this is an institution, perhaps unfortunately one of the few that so humanly succeeded in Poland independent. And there is a huge amount of satisfaction associated with this, which we can have as Poles, because we were able to create really very good, so humanly, work. This work continues through all previous terms, among others. because it has succeeded in this institution and to some extent also outside it, although to a much lesser extent there, to appoint a group of people. This is a few thousand employees; this is an institution growing over the course of these 15 years. They, having very different views and very different positions on the map of Polish intelligence, have one thing in common: they are not involved in the Polish People's Republic. And this is a very important lesson for the Third Republic. Whether we call it the third or the fourth, it's indifferent at the moment. The important thing is that we succeeded in this institution, because from the beginning it was free, it consisted of free people, i.e. people who were not involved in any blackmail, no subtexts, no weaknesses resulting from the fact of burdening the Polish People's Republic. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that we all here know this, but it must be clearly repeated, especially today in the context of this report well prepared by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Dr. Łukasz Kaminski. The 2015 report is an unusual report because it covers the entire 15th anniversary. This is a report on the current activities of 2015, but also a summary report, as 2015 was the year of the Institute's 15 years of operation. And this is the first lesson, fundamental to me as a citizen of the Republic of Poland and a Pole, a citizen of our independent country. We can pride ourselves on the fact that we have an institution that we have succeeded and which is a good showcase of Polish skills of creating a state, creating state institutions, creating what we call independence. And the second thing in general, for me, is very important, which comes from documentation prepared for the Senate. This is the fact that it is an institution, it can be said, from the very beginning, multi-branched internally. What's more, not just from the very beginning of the multi-branch These industries, these areas of activity, competence and commitment over these 15 years are only expanding, which means that it is an institution of public trust in the sense that... If we are looking in public space for an answer to the question which institution will bear, we will always, sooner or later, answer: IPN. Please note that the current amendment of the Act is also to some extent an illustration of the thesis that the IPN, in view of the fact that the right foundation of its creation, is called for to carry out various tasks that will undoubtedly be new tasks, previously unrecognized. This is what happens when it comes to the independent search department led by Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk, and so, I hope, it will also happen in this new legal dimension, which will only become a fact and which we will be able to talk about when the law actually comes into force and when the new management takes up new tasks. This is the second point about a synthetic assessment. And the third case, personally closest to me. I remember, Luke, our first conversation when you became president of the Institute of National Remembrance. And I specifically call you by your name, though, of course, from the speaker of the institution of the state. I had doubts at the time. And you put it out for me. The Institute of National Remembrance, so active in the days of Janas Kurtyka, so very entering into disputes, in sharp tensions which also cause important lessons for the nation, under your direction this task of creating such a sort of carpet educational message. And then you told me that my doubts were unfounded, and you said, "Wait, look and see what it would look like." And now it seems to me not so much to apologize because the fact that I was wrong is no reason to apologize to you but to give you what you deserve, Dear President. Because during these 5 years you have accomplished a lot of wonderful tasks in this educational sphere, which I thought would be the hardest for you to bear, precisely because you held the position of president at a difficult time, i.e. at a time when in the Polish country a formation far burdened with such, gently speaking, not showing attachment to patriotism, attachment to the idea of independence, sovereignty, means everything that was, is and will make sense of the existence of the Institute of National Remembrance. Because this system of values, which the President of the Institute of National Remembrance was talking about today, is a system of values based on Polish national identity. On the Polish national identity, which not always and not all, to put it mildly, liked in the Republic of Poland after 1989. And it seemed to me that you couldn't handle this potentially massive attack, or maybe an aversion to the IPN simply, humanly speaking, and it's in this educational sphere. Today, however, I must admit And I'm really glad to admit it. I was wrong because not only did you do well, you did just fine. I'm touched to talk about it, because this institution has been, is and will be very close to me. So that I am very pleased that this educational activity, the details of which the President of the IPN could not fully articulate here, is so wonderful in effect. Please note that this is a daily educational activity, quiet, quiet, absent in media noise. It was the current leadership of the IPN that verified and, in my perspective, changed the style of educational activity from what Janusz Kurtyka proposed and, among other things, me as the then management That is to say, that it is a media educational message, visible in a dispute, in a dispute which also teaches. It was the current management who came up with the idea that this educational activity should be positive. Silent and effective. And while I am still attached to that strategy today, I must give back what is due, so that it is this positive-everyday, and at the same time incredibly creative activity is carried out by the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance in headquarters, in all branches, in delegations. I think that since we are getting closer and closer, from yearbook to yearbook, because the new generation enters democratic Poland as an adult, to say that we are not only living in a model of a democratic state, but also living in democracy and democracy, it is a great merit of this educational activity of the Institute of National Remembrance. But of course. And that's where I'm gonna end up. The Institute of National Remembrance is an institution that will also be exposed to various kinds of discomfort. And without a doubt these discomforts, at least those which I find in my memory, relate primarily to the fact that the truth about the past is very many uncomfortable environments. So, regardless of what we write here, whether in the Senate or in the Seym, from my perspective, and here I refer to my fellow senators rather than to the leadership of the IPN, because it knows very well... It is important to be aware that regardless of how we legally protect the Institute of National Remembrance and how much we allow it to do this increasingly growing activity, employees of the Institute of National Remembrance will always be exposed in a sense to the discomfort of their work, except, of course, satisfaction, which is not discomfort, but great comfort... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm done. This discomfort lies in the fact that the activities of the IPN enter into such spheres of individual biography of people in whom there is treason, there is a crime, there are many different crimes. The Institute of National Remembrance and its employees will always, please, be exposed to discomfort in the sense that they will be at risk of performing their duties. And I would also like you to know that this is a unique institution also in the sense that people go to work in this institution, who even if at the time of crossing the threshold of the Institute of National Remembrance do not fully understand what they are exposed to, then after months, years of work already know it very well. And that's why more respect for the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Dear Representatives of the Institute of National Remembrance! A phase of the Institute's activities is coming to an end because, as we know, the new Act on the Institute of National Remembrance has been in force since today and the institution is expanding its field of activity a little bit. This is due, among other things. the experience gained so far in relation to the tasks before the institution, but this is also due to the need to extend this research period until 1917, which has progressed in this discussion. But we discussed in more detail the report that Mr Łukasz Kaminski had submitted before the High Chamber, the activity report for 2015, the report, which is impressive, because the printing itself is extensive, there are facts in it. It is worth reminding in the pill that the numbers look as follows: 195 publications in 2015, several hundred presentations, 20 new and 186 older exhibitions. Recently, we had an opening here, with the participation of the president of the Poznań branch of the Institute of National Remembrance, an exhibition dedicated to the landscaping. In addition, we have 450 meters of current new documents taken over to the National Remembrance Institute's stock, nearly 65 thousand completed applications for access to documents, 10 000 78 completed investigations, 9 000 460 verified illustrative statements. And you could quote a lot of these numbers. This shows the great work that employees of the Institute of National Remembrance under the leadership of the President, Dr. Łukasz Kaminski, take every day. I'd like another one of those bleachers. Because, as I mentioned, a certain stage of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance is coming to an end, and I would like to thank you, personally, President Łukasz Kaminski and the entire management, because your vice president is also with us, and I would like to thank all of you and, through you, all of you, for the work you have done so far, because, as Prof. Żaryn mentioned, during the year that includes the report, the 15th anniversary of the Institute's activities has taken place. Ladies and gentlemen, there are very few of us, but there are a few people who participated in the bill on the Institute of National Remembrance, and we were parliamentarians at the time... I remember the atmosphere in which, in 1998, there was a bill under investigation, her huge meanders and curves... By the end of the day, it was not known whether this law would be passed. As you know, at that time the Polish coalition of AWS-Union of Liberty ruled, within the coalition there were different opinions on this subject, but ultimately the bill was passed, although then there were crazy critical voices. It was said that it would be some kind of super-secret entity, which would be an extension of politics, that it would work backwards, that why study it, let's leave it to those institutions that are, not necessary, and why there is a mirroring at all... Although, to be precise, it must be admitted that the illustrious act passed in the end of previous governments, or coalition of SLDsl, she later, of course, changed its scope. But what was characteristic, because today we forget about it... Well, on December 18, 1998 a key vote was held in the Sejm for the future of the IPN. As you know, then President Alexander Kwasniewski reported a veto to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and it was not entirely known if it was a veto by a majority of 3/5 votes... I remind you, the coalition didn't have that much, but in this case, PSL supported the adoption of this law again, i.e. it was against the veto of the then President Kwasniewski. And this law, the Act of 18 December 1998, entered into force, the Institute began to operate theoretically in January 1999 and institutionally in 2000. I also remember perfectly the discussions about the first president of the Institute of National Remembrance. A very strong candidate was the then Minister of Interior, Mr Marek Biernacki, who was a candidate for AWS. But the AWS coalitionist, the Freedom Union, disagreed, the former trade fair... As I recall, on 9 May 2000, it was announced that Professor Leon Kieres would be the candidate, and that on 8 June 2000 a vote took place, such as a package vote, because then we also elected an ombudsman, so these important votes took place. Why am I bringing this up? Because I want to show that since the beginning of this institution there have been many opponents of its functioning, opponents who, in my opinion, for political or ideological reasons, or perhaps also for personal reasons. Because they were also against the creation of a memory institute. And as the institute was already established, then they tried to trim the profile of its activities, its scope and capabilities. There's been a discussion... Practically during the 15th anniversary, Mr President and your predecessors can say that too. They were still struggling with discussions about the budget, about the seat. We remember how there was a change of seat and all activities which, as if softly, not directly, were supposed to weaken the potential and essence of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. I would like to pay my respects to the President in this respect, because in some difficult times it came to you to direct this institution, at a time when there was a crisis connected, for example, with a book on the involvement of Lech Walesa in cooperation with the Security Service... Although it was a little earlier, but the consequences of it were lasting and in a sense may even continue to this day, which is the best proof now of the proceedings concerning the materials found in the villa or at the house of General Czesław Kiszczak. I would just like to express my great appreciation for not only the research scope, which is impressive, but above all about the educational aspect, the aspect which is so important, because most of the contemporary Poles or more than half of them do not remember from the autopsy of the times of the Polish People's Republic. And it was a special time and we see that now, let's say, over time, we are trying to nuance what was historical truth about this period. I'm trying to represent this period in such a way... a little by the pink glasses that it wasn't actually such a bad time that maybe some of these political freedoms and civil liberties were less, but it wasn't so bad in general and it was basically the optimal of what we could have achieved under post-Altanian conditions. This educational activity led by your institution is: publishing activities, exhibition activities and, above all, the launch of the entire procedure related to the exhumation of victims of the criminal communist system, people who have been destroyed, brutally murdered in Stalinist times and then secretly unknown where they were buried. Launching this huge process and restoring memory, including restoring memory of the solid soldiers, and cooperating with many people, political, social authorities, science people who supported these actions and also supported the Institute of National Remembrance in this action It's a lot of work. We can say that the Institute of National Remembrance has contributed to deceiving our latest history, and this truth in public life is extremely important. We can argue, have different political views, different economic programs, but we need to build on the foundation of truth, appeal to our difficult, difficult and at the same time wonderful history. We must remember to look back, build the future in a modern way and appeal to our national memory. So, Mr President, I would like to thank you very warmly again from this stand and all your colleagues, the employees of the Institute of National Remembrance for this enormous effort. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u87	High Izbo! Mr. President! There have been so many words in this room. My previous speakers have already thanked me for the work done by the Institute under your leadership for this difficult work that has been carried out for many years; you have participated in it for a long time. I remember you from earlier years when you weren't president yet. And I have to thank here, too, on behalf of my agricultural union, solidarity, because this cooperation has been working out and working out, and we hope it will be even better. As the president remembers, we talked recently about our anniversary celebrations. There was an exhibition in Rzeszów, there were celebrations in Bydgoszcz and in Poznań, there were also here in the Senate, and this exhibition also took place here in the Senate, for which I thank you very much. We could show some of the agricultural history of the "Solidarity," what were the hardships and what activities. Recently, we discussed that we would need to do a larger publication on agricultural solidarity, because we have a lot of publications about the high solidarity, while agriculture is described in a small, cut part. And I am asking from this place to continue this work that we have established, so that these intentional matters will be settled. And we also talked about the possibility of even greater education, as well as the possibility of making recordings, because witnesses are getting less and less, people are leaving us avalanche, and that's why we're asking you to actually, just like we talked about, make at least some recordings so that it can be recreated. The activity of agricultural solidarity was more, so to speak, conspiracy and there are not many documents created by the service in the IPN. Maybe our people were more undercover, some may even be less under surveillance than employees' solidarity. Therefore, more knowledge, more information is found in people who are still alive and can still be run, they often have documents in their homes. Some of them transferred the documents to the museums, and some of them transferred the documents to the museums. No, no, no, no, Therefore, there is a request to use those who are still alive and who still have documents in their homes and could pass them on. That is my request for this subject. Thank you again, and I'm hoping for further cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the President like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches? [[President of the National Remembrance Institute of the Polish Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals Łukasz Kaminski: I can only thank everyone once again.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr President, for the information presented, for the work of you and the team of colleagues you are directing. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate took note of the activity of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals during the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 200 and the committee report In print No 200 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u89	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The overarching objective of the amendments to the Act is sustainable development based on the concept of energy clusters and energy cooperatives. In this respect, increasing energy production in clusters and energy cooperatives will further increase the use of local resources, improve energy security in rural areas, increase the pace of development of these areas, which have so far been economically neglected. The proposed solutions remove barriers that discourage the creation of energy cooperatives and other forms of cooperation aimed at jointly meeting energy needs. Another major change is the development of the use of local biomass. Effective use of biomass available in the vicinity of manufacturing units, in particular waste and residues from the production processes of wood, paper, furniture, agri-food, etc. and reducing the transport of biomass over long distances will, on the one hand, create new jobs in rural areas and, on the other hand, contribute to the efficiency of the use of national energy resources. Effective use of industrially unfit wood... The result will be a new definition of energy wood. It will increase the possibility of using wood for energy purposes due to low quality characteristics which prevent it from being used in industry. The Act designes mechanisms to initiate the proper development of prosumer installations. Changes in the development of micro-installations of renewable energy sources aim to develop a prosumer civil movement aimed at the creation of renewable energy installations with a view to meeting its own energy needs rather than generating high profits. The proposed changes consist of abandoning the idea of introducing fixed guaranteed tariffs, which focus on creating a financial incentive to produce maximum electricity, not the quantity necessary to meet their own energy needs prosumers. In place of the guaranteed tariffs, support is proposed in the form of the quantitative settlement of energy entered into and collected by prosumers under the concluded comprehensive agreements. Such a solution will enable prosumer to use the electricity grid as a kind of energy storage. The amendments proposed at this stage mostly relate to the drafting corrections of the adopted legal text. The remaining amendments in the area of the obligation to purchase the offered heat from the thermal treatment plant and other renewable energy installations are intended to improve the current state of play. Another amendment removes the cases of blocking the possibility of connecting cheap and stable renewable energy sources to district heating networks. Therefore, the recommendation that energy undertakings and district heating companies in the area of a given district heating network should purchase the offered heat generated by the connected installations, but not more than the demand of the end-users of that company connected to the network. What is equally important, the energy company will be required to agree to the connection e.g. geothermal installations for heating networks. The connection will be implemented in accordance with the provisions of energy law, taking into account the provisions of the Energy Minister's Regulation. Until this regulation is adopted, the existing rules will be maintained. The Commission has been meeting with experts. The discussion was quite detailed, attended by both experts and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office present at the committee meeting. The discussion was very thematically focused. I think that the valuable questions asked during the committee's work, the sensible questions, the answers were answered and the doubts were clarified.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for you. The Senator rapporteur said there were expert opinions for this bill. Can you tell us more about what the experts were, what kind of industry and what opinions they were?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u92	Sure. They were mostly experts in the renewable energy sector. They were people who represented themselves as experts, usually representing companies or associations that function so far. From those people I know, he was, for example. Mr., who represented the renewable energy institute, the company of O.O. You were from Kielce, who represented the association of renewable wind energy, a company from Warsaw. They were that kind of person. As far as government experts are concerned, the Minister, the Director and the President of the Energy Regulatory Office were present.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. You ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, one of the objectives of the law is to introduce transparent rules on the production and use of electricity for own use in micro-installations. During the committee's work was the topic of surplus produced by micro-installation owners who produce electricity for their own use? If they produce the surplus, is it considered as profit and is it compensated by the State?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u95	As far as compensation is concerned, yes, this topic was addressed in two points. The first point is the proposals for amendments tabled by the legislator. On this occasion, the surplus issues you are talking about were discussed. It was an attempt to clarify, in fact, an attempt to answer the question of a legislator who did not include this in his proposal as to how to define this surplus. The Minister's response... Maybe. In the text of the resolution it is written quite unambiguously. It is defined there by the energy ratio that is drawn up, to the energy that is given, and there is a power limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u96	I'm sorry, but it's not about the definition of profit, it's about whether the surplus will be compensated for by the owner of the micro-installation, for example. to a farmer who's gonna put this on his roof.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u97	If this is not part of his business activity, to the power which is declared in the Act, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u98	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'll go back to Senator Dowhan's first question, because the senator mentioned people who represented all kinds of institutions, organizations. Could you zoom in on the senator, please? To us, what were the opinions? I'm not talking about the ministry's opinion, because it's hard to imagine the Minister expressing a negative opinion on his bill. What were the opinions of the other people, the representatives of the various institutions who took part in the committee meeting? That's one thing. And secondly, Mr. Senator, could you give the senator a brief answer to such a question that I will probably always ask: what are the advantages of what was in prosumer energy for ordinary Kowalski? What benefits?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u100	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u101	When it comes to presenting the opinions that were presented, I can do it. Then I'll ask for a 20-minute recess, a transcript from the sitting, and I'll quote those opinions to you. I would not like to make a mistake now, recalling from memory the opinions that were presented by experts, because these were highly technical opinions. So if necessary, I kindly ask the Marshal to announce a 20-minute break, to extract the transcript, then I will read these opinions. [[We're not gonna announce a break right now.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll be...]] [[Voice from the room: In writing...]] Like I said, I wouldn't want those opinions... It's just that these are very technical issues and... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] [[In a minute, Mr. Senator.]] I know energy technology, I am an energy engineer by profession, but I do not want to make a mistake, and these are very technical opinions, in the context of this discussion that took place in the Chamber. But we're able to do it, we're able to recreate the committee meeting, there's no problem with that. Technically, it's feasible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u102	I see. Is there anything else you'd like to ask, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal, to solve this problem, thank you for the comprehensive information, I can see that you do actually know energy, I understand everything, so I withdraw this question. [[I wouldn't want to introduce you...]] Thank you. Thank you for the comprehensive information. [[Mr. Senator, these are difficult issues...]] Thank you for the comprehensive information. I didn't want you to quote me. The committee protocol, because I'm gonna read it myself. I'd like you to say there were 10 experts and most of them praised, spoke well, wrong. Do you understand or do you not understand? [[I mean, no...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] If you can't say it, I'm giving up on that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u104	Mr. Senator, that was in room 106... [[You have to know how to ask a question.]] ...and the room was full, so... [[You have to understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u105	Quiet, please. I think, Senator, you might be able to repeat that question... [[I'll address the Minister.]] ...to ask the Minister and the Minister will answer... [[That's why I pulled out.]] ...or will give a very comprehensive answer in writing. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[It wasn't my thing to be mean. I'm sorry, sir, but it was in room 106, there were two committees, a room full of people...]] Good. Senator rapporteur, we have exhausted this subject. Now I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry. That was the first, easiest question. There was another one, the benefits of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u107	I'm sorry. Could the senator say anything about that? You're welcome. Then Senator Tighten up. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u108	In my statement, I included the issue of these benefits. I read... I'll give you that text written by me. At this point, I am reporting the work of the committee, and this question was not raised at the meeting. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u109	Thank you. Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u110	Mr. Senator, I'm also interested in the opinion of the experts who spoke during the work on this bill. [[That's what you need to read...]] I would ask you to write down these comments and present them after the Senate meeting. Okay? You're just acting close to the bottom of the culture... [[Well, that's my nature, I'm not gonna change.]] I'm interested in expert opinion. I have the opinion of experts from the Polish Chamber of Economics of Renewable and Distributed Energy. According to this opinion, the preferred use of biomass burning in the draft law is not the most effective way to use RES. According to this opinion, the preference for biomass is disadvantageous to other sectors Biogas, wind and small hydrotechnics. Is that your opinion? Was such an opinion discussed among experts?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u111	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u112	On whether I share this opinion, I will speak at the moment when I will speak on my own behalf. Now I represent the committee. That's the kind of discussion I've never heard in this room.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u113	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Voice from the room: The card needs to be...]] You can ask a question, please. [[It's just a card you need...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u114	Excuse me, I'll ask. Senator, how much will the price of 1 kWh of energy increase after these changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u115	Heat or electricity? [[Electric.]] I don't know. It wasn't discussed in the courtroom. [[It was because there were questions about it.]] Mr. Senator, the price of electricity, if you're asking a little bit by accident... But on what fare, Mr. Senator, how much and who do you want to order it from? It is as complicated as trying to answer the question of how much a minute of telephone calls in Poland cost. It depends on what tariff, what operator, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u116	Thank you. Senator Piotr Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The promotion of renewable energy sources should be our objective. Not long ago we discussed wind energy, windmills, and we adopted a very unfavourable law which will certainly reduce the amount of renewable energy produced in Poland. We're discussing the micro-installation right now. There was a fixed tariff guaranteed, previously adopted also by the Senators of Law and Justice, and now there is a sudden change There is a parliamentary project and there will be no longer a guaranteed tariff, i.e. there will be no incentives. And we should encourage everyone to make as many of these installations as possible. There are, of course, flaws and advantages, as we discussed on the occasion of wind energy, but incentives should exist. The introduction of these changes will not encourage prosumers to increase this resource, the more that this factor 1 to 0.7... I don't know what it's coming from. If you could explain, because I wasn't part of the committee meeting, what is it supposed to be? Unless it's 0.7 for extra energy. Yes? That's the first question. And the other, the biomass. Did you discuss at the committee meeting... This distance is 300 km. As far as biomass is concerned, we know where it can be obtained, etc. Probably from abroad, too, since it's supposed to be 300 km. And why it's 300 km, not e.g. 50 kilometers or 20 kilometers? Transport costs will be much higher, and thus energy will be more expensive. The effect will probably be that we will generally only bet on coal, because this energy will be much more expensive, as some experts raise it. Those two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u118	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u119	The first question wasn't discussed at the committee meeting, but I think... here, too, not out of spite, I'll say... You're just a minister who'll probably answer that question. It wasn't at the committee meeting. Question two. This was not discussed either. But it's up to 300 kilometers. So it's about biomass being used near the source of production.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u120	Thank you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u121	Thank you. Mr. Senator, today's media, specifically one of the newspapers, reports that an amendment that changes the definition of wood for co-incineration And it changes that definition in such a way that it extends the range of burned wood... It follows from this article that this amendment was prepared in agreement with the State Forests. Did a representative of the State Forests actually take an active part in the editorial work of this amendment during the meeting, the parliamentary work? And was this matter the subject of the committee's deliberations? Because in fact this amendment leads to the fact that we will burn in much more Polish forest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u123	As for the article today, I will say that the committee was sitting yesterday, so as if it were not dealing with the future and looking forward in this regard. But yes, during the committee's proceedings was the present representative of the State Forests, there is also their representativeship, because this is the group Here, in the courtroom, and I think... there was no such question at the committee meeting. But also here is a representative of the State Forests, there is a four-person group, which I think will be at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u124	Thank you. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u125	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have this question: do we know the number, do we know how many citizens have installed power-generating devices for their needs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u126	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u127	During the committee's deliberations, this issue was not raised either. [[But she was...]] The number of citizens with RES installed, right? [[That's what we need to look into the protocol.]] The protocol requires... If I'm wrong, which means I've given the information falsely... I didn't hear that kind of information about how many people have installed... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u128	Oh, there's no more people asking questions. I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Would the government representative, Minister Andrzej Piotrowski, or the President of URE, Mr Maciej Bando, like to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u129	I'd just like to be very brief... Ladies and gentlemen, most of the topics you have discussed and the questions asked to the rapporteur have already been raised several times in the process. And there were several answers to these questions. Of course, I will be patient to answer any question, but I would assume that the legislative process should continue to run in rational conditions. I would like to remind you that there were also non-members present at the committee meeting. It would have been much more efficient if the senators had also spent some of their time. But that's my private point. You're welcome to ask questions. [[Thank you.]] [[Please respond!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u130	Minister, there will be questions for you so that you remain. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: It is good that other committees...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Minister, but in every part of the procedure, if the senators have the right to ask questions, they can report them. And they can repeat them. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Czarnobaj, Senator Vistula, Senator Hamerski and Senator Rybicki came forward. And Augustine. [[Come on, we're gonna be...]] The list is, of course, open. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u131	Mr. Marshal, Minister, at first I would like to thank you. I'm gonna take it to my heart to do a better setup procedure... But I also hope that we will be able to get an answer to all the questions that we want to ask the Minister. Minister, let's get to the questions. The first question is: could you say to the ordinary Kowalski in two short military sentences efficiently? That's what I think I am. What better prosumer energy does the bill have for him? That's the first question. And the second question about co-incinerating. Who was the author of the amendment on extending the use of wood from forests when it comes to co-incinerating? Who made such a... I am not asking who has submitted technically, because, I understand, technically, it is probably the Members who have submitted it. I mean, was there a share of the proposals submitted by the State Forests in this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u132	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, if this is about prosumer... I think that can be summarised to two points. The first is legal certainty. The Prosumer knows exactly what role he's in... [[Minister, why don't I pick up the desktop so you can be more comfortable because I've lowered my...]] Thank you very much, I didn't think the platform was mobile. So... ... It knocked me out... I'm sorry. [[There you go. Be careful you don't lower yourself, because, you know, it works both ways.]] No, it's stable. And that's what I'd like to say about stability. The aim of this initiative was to make sure that the prosumer knew to what extent the expectations, what its role could be, whether it was a profit-based activity, or whether it was an activity calculated to meet a certain social objective. And in the intention of the Ministry, for the Members who submitted... I do not hide that there have been rather extensive discussions between us in this area. The result of these discussions is such a definition that it is a social activity which is a state-supported mechanism for transferring excess energy to the network, with a view to using it by others and then receiving it, but in such a way as not to involve public aid. Therefore, as with any economic activity... If you're keeping a car somewhere in the parking lot, you're charging for it. And here it is similar: if the prosumer drains energy, only a part of this energy is given back to it. And this ratio of 0.3, or right now of 0.2... It's stopped to cover the cost. In the original assumption, this ratio of 0,3 was the result of certain averages and calculations, followed by a change in the message, an amendment. She doesn't storm the whole system, but she needs to think about whether there's actually going to be a target compensation, in the case of an energy seller, for that surplus. We'll see what it looks like, and eventually we'll make an adjustment here. Anyway, there are voices. As far as co-burning biomass is concerned, I am not at this point able to trace the process so out of my head, but I will say that among the initiators of the introduction of the definition of defective wood were State Forests. I would like to point out that this has also been discussed in our department. This was about dealing with situations such as cataclysms, which resulted in a large amount of wood. And that's how it was finally tuned up. If you'd like... Because there's a lot of media coverage that's based on very simplified opinions. It seems to me that the representatives of the State Forests can present here the essence of this discussion. I'm sure she was strongly focused on not being defined to lead to the fact that the resources of full-value wood, beneficial to the economy... I do not hide that the furniture industry and all the like are a very important component of the Polish industry. It would not be rational to weaken it by burning things suitable for use and bringing greater added value. I think we can fully satisfy the senator's curiosity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u134	We have the Deputy General Director of State Forests, Mr Krzysztof Janeczko. If he wants to join this discussion, you're welcome. Now you're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u135	Minister, we know from the rapporteur that the issues I asked him were not the subject of the committee. I'm sure you can answer those questions in your expertise. I would therefore ask you to comment on the argument that the Act prefers to burn biomass and that this is not the most effective form of use of renewable energy sources. At the same time... As I understand from your answer, the value of biomass in this bill is in a sense an answer to the needs of State Forests or furniture industry. Am I interpreting this correctly? And one more question about the previous question. Will this value of biomass not cause other RES sources to be undervalued or harder to break through? It's about wind energy, small hydrotech or biogas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u136	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u137	Mr. Senator, the whole area of RES is a sphere of state intervention. To say that something is more or less effective requires thinking about what the purpose of the State intervention was. That's where the voice came in... One of the senators said, I believe, in a simplistic way, that our goal is to develop RES. No, it's the middle. Our goal is to protect the environment. We choose instruments for this purpose, weighing various factors. These factors include the final effect, but also issues related to social policy and economic policy. One element of this economic policy is waste management policy. Therefore, if someone says that burning biomass or co-burning is the most effective... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry, ladies and gentlemen. ...this raises the question, with which coordinates this greatest efficiency measured. Usually these are analyses in which we have to take into account many different factors. If we consider only one factor, namely to obtain the cheapest energy from renewable sources, it can actually come out, but, ladies and gentlemen, if we consider... [[Cell phone signal]] [[Maybe it's the wife?]] Excuse me, in the newer devices you can turn off the ringtone in several different ways. At this point, the wrong thing went off... Not everyone follows where I am. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. [[There you go.]] I'm going back to the issue of multi-option analysis. When we deal with waste, which naturally each of us collects at home, and then pays for getting rid of them... These may also be substrates for the production of renewable energy. Very advanced solutions in this area, Sweden is very inspiring. We want to benefit from these experiences. As far as biomass is concerned, in a lot of cases... This is generally the European Union's policy at the moment in order to create uncompetitive solutions for the production of food sources or energy products. Therefore, in a situation where we classify wood as waste, i.e. as unfit for other purposes, leaving it at the place where it is, is harmful to the environment, because rotting processes occur, emissions appear. The use of this is beneficial for the environment, for the use of energy. But it's actually gonna have to be done in such a way as to reconcile one and the other. The management of certain waste may be disproportionately expensive and is therefore not considered equivalent. The difference that this law introduces in relation to the previous provisions is that the State does not remove the tools for industrial policy and social policy. Therefore, auctions are divided thematically. And here, which is very important, it is not only the price that is considered important. Because we all have to realize one thing: the energy system doesn't just matter about energy, but it also matters that it is delivered at the moment when someone needs it. There are sources that generate or have the ability to generate energy as a result of certain events For example, when the sun shines or the wind blows And there are sources that can supply that energy at their disposal, so when someone needs that energy. Not reflecting this in the energy system leads to trouble, and sometimes to a counterproductive outcome. I will draw your attention to the statistics on Germany, a very developed country with regard to RES, which generated more carbon dioxide at the beginning of its policy than before it was introduced. Why? Well, precisely because the maintenance of the energy supply was carried out through conventional sources that were activated ad hoc It wasn't their characterization. And they generated this carbon dioxide. We want to avoid such mistakes. Germany has also begun to deal with this, better or worse, but they have switched to other energy sources, which they believe are strategically beneficial. It would be too difficult for us to accept natural gas on the same scale, to say the least, because it is not our raw material and its cause depends on certain political factors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u138	Thank you. Senator Hamerski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u139	Minister, I have a question. Was it not at a time when project designers were preparing this bill and when this quota concept was discussed up to 10 MW, that the concept of allowing tank water plants to be allowed up to that amount was not considered? It's about this part that's up to 10 MW.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u140	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a little arbitrary, because we have different cases of different power plants, different ages, made in different technologies. Generally speaking, the problem that arises here is the problem of transferring RES subsidies to sources that are clearly RES sources, but do not require subsidies, because they are able, so to speak, to close financially without such grant aid. We had a significant signal that in the previous solution the reduction of the ceiling to 5 MW of installed capacity was a definite exaggeration and very many installations that required the maintenance of the grant were, colloquially speaking, outside the parentheses. In setting this limit, which was written here, we consulted with the Minister of the Environment, with his staff, with experts. That's it. As is usually the case in solutions that have to cover a number of different objects, the result of some kind of compromise. It seemed to us at that point that this was a healthy compromise. Maybe it is. Time will show if even though there was a radical increase in installed power, it is not enough If necessary, this will have to be corrected further. For today's expert estimates indicate that this is centered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u142	Thank you, Minister. Senator Rybicki's questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u143	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you represent the Government of Law and Justice, which in the election campaign spoke of forests as a unique national good. Having read the provisions of this law, I'm going to say a little bit perversely that you are going to burn these national goods in industrial furnaces. The definition of wood to be used for co-incineration in power plants is so extended when it comes to the scope of... So the wood that's being attacked by a barking jar, e.g. In the Białowieża Forest, it can be through furnaces... it can simply be the subject of combustion. It is particularly worrying to extend the definition to wood, which comes from windmills, because we know that wood is often valuable and can be used for completely different purposes than burning. [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] The question to the representative of the government is: whether this law is in any way for the purposes that you assumed in the election campaign, i.e. for the protection of Polish forests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u144	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u145	Mr Senator, I can assure you that the forests as a priority of the government, i.e. the preservation of a substance, a certain national good, are, were and, I hope, will be independently of changing the political option of each team, because it is a very important good distinguishing us from many European countries that have cut out the forests. But we need to be aware of the dynamics of certain processes. If you're having trouble with the fact that, as a result of some random events, windmills have emerged, which are a threat to the spread of the disease in terms of wood, then you must remove the wood from that place. Here, colleagues from the Forests are much more experienced in this area. So the question is, what are we gonna do about the wood that's been removed? If you'd like to assume that the woodworking industry, furniture production can work in cataclysms, then probably the industry's representatives will confirm that they don't have that much flexibility. The most important thing is to create a kind of symbiosis, so that at a time when we have a problem, this problem can be solved easily, and if there is no problem, it does not affect those interests which are obvious to the Polish economy. Mr. Marshal, could I really ask the representatives of the State Forests to fill in the answers? Would the senator like that, or...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u146	Mr. Marshal, I'm just ad vocem. Energy policy cannot be planned based on the condition of Polish forests. This is a misunderstanding. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: I did not say that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u147	Thank you. I understand that a representative of the general management takes note of these questions and, of course, if he wants to... Of course, you can also indicate the moment when you should be replaced in answering questions. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u148	Not always attending a committee meeting I was on it. It's effective. I have asked you twice how much the price of energy will increase as a result of changes relating to the transitional fee, which increases from PLN 3.87 to PLN 8 per month, i.e. by 106%. Maybe now we can figure it out, and we'll all hear how big it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u149	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u150	Mr. Senator, the answer to this question is obvious and it is included in the bill. It's a fixed fee. Therefore, if you would like to know what percentage change will take place, it can be said that it depends on the bills. If we are talking about a fixed fee, which was about 4 zlotys, then this part of the fixed fee will actually be increased to 8 zlotys, which does not mean that the bills will increase. In addition, the bill will increase by PLN 4. This is about covering the deficit, which the clearing manager seems to have earned for the previous administration and, unfortunately, it is necessary to create an instrument that will compensate for it. And that's what this is for, and it's been twice the subject of my answer to the senator's questions, as well as before at the committee meeting. So that I would like to assure both the High House and Poles that we are not getting ready to make any significant changes that are difficult for our citizens. But unfortunately, the system that was designed was related to costs that were not reflected in the past, so they will have to be reflected now with delay. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u151	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me, just one word. If you believe that a representative of the State Forests should do something for you, say so, then it is up to you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. It was already known before, when energy producers in biogas plants reported this, that the same treatment with regard to other energy, i.e. wind energy and photovoltaics, will finish biogas plants, will not give a chance to exist and develop biogas plants, and this is also a very important element of support for the agricultural environment. Will these solutions which are currently being applied meet the expectations of the producers who exist and possibly future, will there still be a great risk and problem, whether to invest in biogas plants or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u153	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u154	Thank you so much for asking. Senator, the biogas plant isn't equal. There are biogas plants, which are the natural end of a certain process, usually of some kind, are biogas plants based on waste, the existence of which is due to some processes occurring in a given place, and are biogas plants, which are created in anticipation of the fact that the crops will be supplied. Therefore, there are dilemmas, in my opinion very difficult to resolve. Example. Someone who owned a biogas plant at the same time had quite a powerful field, about 100 ha, where he grew corn. This corn is suitable for use in the biogas plant, but the prices of maize have increased, so it is more profitable to sell it. In this situation, this biogas plant is close to the pot, because there's nothing to be powered. How can we solve such problems? Actually, there aren't any good ideas. We are trying to direct the interest of this segment of industry towards the creation of biogas plants as a coherent element of the local economy, where there are indeed some needs for waste management. We believe that these support mechanisms, which are now being initiated in the law, will support these situations to a sufficient extent. But surely there will be a catalogue of situations that we have not foreseen and whose support could only be dictated by the fact that it is also RES energy. But if we don't have a power supply to the biogas plant, how do we save it at this point? The farmer has the right to sell this corn because it pays him more, but at the same time his other child, the biogas plant, bears the consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u155	Thank you, Minister. Senator Blackbay. [[Senator Blackbay, question.]] Questions. [[Oh, those phones.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u156	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Minister, I'm talking about co-incinerating. I will, of course, ask this question in a more detailed form to the representatives of the State Forests. Anyway, Minister, I would like to inform the Minister that the wood industry is not just the furniture industry of solid wood. I would also like to say that what concerns windbreakers and other things can be used for something else, but these are already specific matters, only that I am talking about it, because the Minister said that windstorms are only suitable for burning, co-incinerating. That's what I'm gonna ask a representative of the State Forests. I'll refer to what you said. Minister, you said that I am going back to this prosumer thread that the benefit that I can publicly say in my meetings with the people who are interested in it is that the law provides legal certainty, because that law did not provide legal certainty, is once and twice that it gives the possibility to carry out social activities, and that law did not give it. Now, to add something to these fantastic pillars of change, I'd like to ask you about this. What is the economic value for Kowalski? Isn't she at all? Does this bill make things worse when it comes to repayment? Suppose I invest in installation on the roof of my cottage, on average with a capacity of 8 Did you do such an analysis as to whether this law changes or changes nothing or improves only these two important elements of legal certainty and social activity...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u157	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u158	Mr. Senator, because, as I said, we provide this social activity with support, of course, this type of calculations the resort has carried out. Such calculations have also been carried out by a number of actors who, we believe, are trying to influence public opinion. We do not consider some of the opinions of these entities to be expert opinions, but rather a kind of demagogy. And why is this demagogy possible? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there isn't one price for a photovoltaic panel, just like there isn't one telephone price. or one car price. The panels are different, with different possibilities, with different levels of technological advancement. And this price is very important to calculate the economic benefits, in terms of the resources saved, because prosumer, regaining energy or using it for its own use, can look at it in such a way that it is a competitive solution to buy energy from the supplier. Here we can give this price unambiguously in line with the applicable tariff. With some kind of assumptions, e.g. The fact that we're searching current offers on the Internet... Whether it's valid or not, it's hard to say clearly at this point, but there are offers on the market and there are sellers who offer panels at such a price. According to our calculations, these benefits, which will achieve prosumer as a result of the expenses saved, would allow to offset the purchase price of the installation over a period of 10 and 12 years, depending on the size, depends a little on the prosumer profile. Of course, there were calculations from outer space. It's going to be a few dozen years. But I would like to point out that this state aid is helping to achieve a certain social objective. A very large number of prosumers were previously driven, so to speak, by the fact that this is an activity which is intended to be economically beneficial, i.e. that it is an economic activity, and that the State at the moment, through an intervention instrument, is financing certain activities from other market participants, i.e. electricity consumers. Now considering the various economic policy components, including the costs of 1 kW installed in the installation, we must say that prosumer installations are among the most expensive energy sources. Because the price for 1 kW, which fluctuates between 4 and 5 thousand, translates into 4 million, 5 million, maybe even 6 in some cases, for 1 MWh obtained in other installations. That's a high price. If we do not get other decisive benefits that we would like to compensate for, e.g. it is a certain social awareness, it is at this point that it may be too high to be paid by tariffs, which are based on creating economic activity in this way. Since this does not meet the conditions of a classic business activity, where the trader is looking for a customer, he wonders what the customer needs, bears certain risks. Here, basically, everything is guaranteed. All you have to do is go shopping and wait for the money to flow. And that money was guaranteed by the state. It guaranteed that the others would pay. This is not really fair, in the colloquial sense, economic activity in relation to those who conduct it in other sectors and these risks must bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u159	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have a quick question? You're welcome.]] There you go. But briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u160	Just a little bit. Minister, thank you for a very interesting lecture, but here was the element of the repetition. But if it happens again or again, we'll remember it. I'm going back to that question again. Minister, answer me the question... Thank you for this lecture, but answer me the question: whether, in the context of this good change you are making, the consumer who will invest... Before that, the return on investment he made in his own house on the roof was between 5 and 7 years. Is this going to be between 10 and 12 years or between 20 and 30 years, or is it going to be 1 year? Please tell me, is this law reducing or extending the period of return on investment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u161	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u162	This bill brings a change of philosophy. We're comparing apples and cucumbers, Mr. Senator, so... That is why this answer is not ambiguous. The recovery time is, as we said, between 10 and 12 years, maybe 15 years maximum. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] But that's what I said a moment ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight. There you go. [[Minister, I'd like to get back to the topic of the biogas plant that arises at...]] Did Senator Terminski ask you a question? [[Voice from the room: He resigned.]] He quit? No. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Senator Terminski. [[Good.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u164	Good. Minister, in the course of the work, the authors of the law did not provide any analysis of the impact on the development of the prosumer energy market that the support system will have on the development of the prosumer energy market. My question to the Minister is this: in your opinion, will this support system strengthen prosumers, will it cause this market to develop, or will it, on the contrary, and in your view, be limited only to this consumption, let us call it yes, the home that we discussed at the committee meeting, without the possibility of development? That's the first question. The second question concerns a transitional fee, because it is quite increasing. And here's the thing: did I understand well, Minister, that the reason for the increase in the transitional fee is the need for additional stranded costs, which once, historically, resulted from the PPAs? Or are these some new costs that now arise in connection with the support schemes introduced under this law? And my question is this: Because the transitional fee, just as it was before, can also result in a surplus. And now the question is, do you have any knowledge? Is there any chance of such a surplus, or isn't there a chance? And if the surplus arises, what is it potentially destined for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u165	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u166	First of all, the answer to the prosumer market. Let me remind you that in the previous law there were strictly indicated maximum numbers and number of prosumers which are allowed to a particular type of installation, because the legislator was afraid of an excessive increase in the number of such installations. These numbers aren't there right now. We are not afraid of excessive growth, although we do not hide that in the context of the energy system, as Polish as well as everyone else, the concept of prosuming differs from the philosophy of designing these networks. If we wanted to create the possibility to install everyone anywhere and in any amount, we would risk costs which, as soon as estimated, could reach tens of billions of zlotys, namely the size of the cost of reconstruction of the entire distribution network. But we assume that's not going to happen. We also assume that the operators who will sell the installations will show some sense within the sales mechanisms and will not send salesmen to try to sell such equipment on the same street in every house one by one. This could actually have a negative impact on the system. Of course we have some expectations, we assume that... At the moment, the president of URE can correct what I'm going to say, but I think that people using micro-installations, so prosumers, there are about a few thousand, somewhere there was a number of 4,000. We assume that it will arrive several tens of thousands a year until this model is interesting for both sides. I also assume that technological progress can change this situation and may also change the statutory provisions for future actions of this kind. Generally, we think that in the future, and probably not far away, there will be an act that will be titled, for example. Citizens' energy, and which will actually consume the initiative of individuals, whether acting separately or joining in some kind of joint venture. It was very encouraging for us that some of the companies communicating with us said that they estimate at this point... I think that one was a little off-limits because someone said they were expecting about 1 million of these installations over the last two to three years. Well, I guess that would cause the system to overload. More moderately, they pointed to 50 and 100 thousand, and companies are starting to work on such sales plans. So, by leaning forward to a business that at this point has a lot of experience in evaluating the market, we assume that contrary to what some environments claim, not only will nothing break down here, but will even be in peace, albeit quite attractively developed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u167	Thank you. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u168	Minister, can they count on support, and if so, on what installations of sedimentary biogas plants, which arise or may arise in waste water treatment plants, which may temporarily supply energy to the grid, but will not be a net supplier? Some sources indicate that with state support, approximately 150 biogas plants could be built that could produce up to 1%. electricity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u169	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u170	Here we have two possibilities. Firstly, in fact, there is a quiet place in the auction system for this type of biogas plant. We believe that, although there are relatively few of them so far, this is an area that is important from the state's point of view, because this is about the waste management I have been talking about, waste, for which there is not a very different concept of what should be done with them for the benefit of the environment. But there's an additional possibility that we're very hoping for. In the concept of clusters there is a place for this type of enterprise, because they are able to generate gas that can be stored, so in that case they can play an additional role as a moderator of other sources. In putting together as a whole, this can have a much better effect, and it can be a sharing of the benefits of this for a given area, while preserving the locality of the project, which, as we emphasized here... because in turn this distance of biomass delivery... Well, that was the maximum number. A regulation will be issued, which will define it in detail. Above all, we are concerned with the local benefits of some kind of purification of local environments from unnecessary resources, whether it be sewage sludge, whether it be biomass waste or soft fraction waste biodegradable in terms of just biogas plants, as well as hard ones, but those that are suitable for burning, not being sorted as plastics, glass or metals. [[So there's a backup system.]] Yes, yes, of course there is a basket in the auction, in which it can be found and benefit from the preferences characteristic of this basket.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u171	Thank you. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, two questions. In the previous term, the heads of the Gdansk company Energa drew my attention to a problem. In Pomerania there is a huge number of windmills that produce energy and this energy was And it's bought mainly by Gdansk Energa. It also affected... Well, this price at which it was purchased was definitely higher than the price on the market for energy from traditional sources, so of course this purchase cost also translated into the final price of the sale of energy to the consumer. And such a company as Gdansk Energa was in a worse competitive situation than other plants which bought less energy from these renewable energy producers. Does this bill provide for a levelling system? The fact that simply the price for the final consumer, whether individual or entrepreneur, will not be higher because it buys energy from a supplier who buys energy from renewable energy producers, where this has a significant impact on the volume of this buy-in and they have to buy it. The second question is... Is there a chance for the development of wind energy at sea in connection with this bill that we are currently working on here? We have previously adopted this law, which has generally limited wind energy on land, but investments at sea are quite well prepared, investors have made some preparations, have spent money. Does this bill and this auction system give us a chance to launch investments at sea? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u173	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u174	I'll start by investing at sea. This law is neutral from the point of view of whether it is an investment at sea or on land. In the case of sources with similar comparison characteristics, this benchmark will be the price at which energy can be delivered. Of course, the preparation of maritime investments was largely done first by the State, because it was necessary to separate the land, to carry out some analyses, so it is not quite so that investors can say: we have incurred huge costs. There is still a large part of the costs to be incurred, as installations so called. offshore are high in power and therefore require the possibility of energy introduction into the system in the north of Poland. The electricity system is not prepared for this today. This is why there is even a dispute between one of the potential investors and PSE regarding the fact that PSE is not able to join the existing network today. This is a process with some kind of dynamics. The RES Act doesn't solve the problems I've been talking about, because that's not her job. But yes, offshore energy sources can appear here. Now, back to the Energi case, I'm going to say that he doesn't apply to this bill either, although one layer... 'Cause I think there's some information that's broken. In the senator's question, and hence the answer to that question is perhaps more complicated in a situation where we don't have much time and we don't have time. Then there's only one thing I'd like to say. The fact is that companies like Energa are obliged to purchase a certain number of certificates, because that was the current system. If they produce green energy themselves in the right percentage, they can compensate for it. However, the practice is that, for the sake of clarity, energy certificates that are produced by a given undertaking are traded, and that which are actually bought in and which are produced is not relevant at the moment. So Energa was treated in the same way as other entities. However, there are certain contracts once concluded by Energa, including those that are unfavourable and which have strongly affected energy prices. But we also have to finally realise one thing: the whole RES system is a system that, without state support, does not close financially without subsidies, so it translates into the price of electricity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u175	Thank you. Mr. Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u176	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have this question: has the draft law been consulted with the Minister of Agriculture? My question is that there are provisions in the agricultural pact that are very strong in the development of rural areas, the development of agriculture is based on renewable energy sources, firstly, as a result of the reduction in production costs on the farm, and secondly as a result of the development of installation services and services in general in the field of renewable energy sources. Were there such consultations and what, if any, the Minister's comments in this regard? Because the FIT system has given this pact a better chance of success in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u177	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u178	The Minister of Agriculture has been very intensive in the work and some of the records It was the result of this cooperation, whether amendments or earlier provisions of the Members' project. However, unlike in the case of the senator, both the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture were not on the side I guess this attachment, to the creative role of tariffs... means that I'm going to say that I'm paying farmers for energy production, because it's a new mechanism for subsidising agriculture by other users, energy consumers. And that's not who he was. In fact, it's going to be the RES Act. So I think to some extent this proposal... Let me remind you that prosumer sources up to 40 kW are allowed. This is enough to treat this as an important opportunity to ease the costs of running such a farm in the case of the size of agricultural holdings characteristic for Poland, but it is not just because it is agriculture. However, constructions related to both biogas plants for agricultural biogas and the possibility of using biomass appear here, the concept of energy cooperatives, which are dedicated precisely to the agricultural sector. And there is also the possibility of a biogas plant in a dedicated basket. So I think the extent to which the instruments addressed to the agricultural sector have emerged here is huge. It is about a row of magnitude larger than in the previous law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u179	Thank you, Minister. Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u180	Minister, I didn't get any information about this interim fee. That was my second question. It sounded, let me remind you, this way: is the need for an increase in the transitional fee a derivative of wrongly charged costs or mispredicted stranded costs that were left after the PPAs? And now let me put another question to the Minister, which came to me in the context of your answer to the question about the development of the prosumer market. If you predict that this market will grow at a rate of tens of thousands of installations per year Although at some point it fell down that it could be a million, but let's take a few tens of thousands It is in parallel to the development of the Prosumer market that a gigantic market of equipment emerges. And my question is: whether you, as the Ministry of Energy or together with Minister Morawiecki, are working on some support system for manufacturers of this type of equipment or a system... Maybe not as much support in terms of technology or development as protection against the influx of such installations from abroad. Because in my opinion, the development of this market will create a lot of very modern jobs here in the country. That's my question. Were there any such considerations made in the government as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u181	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u182	As far as the transitional fee is concerned, it is no secret that the settlement manager is currently in debt in the banking sector for PLN 1 billion. This fee is precisely to ensure that this debt can be repaid. Not once, because it would be too hard. [[My question was, is that what this is all about? As soon as you confirm that's what this is about, okay. Well, I'll take that. Or are there other circumstances, new ones that have emerged, unrelated to PPAs, with these orphaned costs?]] Okay. So we're going to go into this matter here, and we're going to combine two things. The previous Act introduced REO, which was, for unknown reasons, a separate entity, but carried out activities very similar to those carried out by the clearing manager. So we thought it would be more effective to combine these functions in one entity. It is also more effective because the fees resulting from the auction need to be cushioned. Therefore, the clearing manager will have the possibility But all the time within the budgetary economy, so everything will be visible here. The transfer of appropriations according to the situation concerned. So that the fee collected by the account manager will allow not to draw e.g. new temporary liabilities to pay off... Because in the case of auctions, the RES financing system will change, and it won't be any more. It's just gonna have to come from somewhere... first it'll be paid by the account manager, and then it'll be added to the electricity bill. And this moment will have to be financed in some way and credit-type instruments will be used here again, but it will be a common basket, albeit very urgently considered, because they are very similar instruments. So, of course, it's so precise, I hope, the answer. Yes, mostly PPAs, but also this combination effect, so as to achieve synergies between these two actions. [[Thank you, Minister, that's exactly what I meant.]] Thank you. [[And now that's the second question, about the market for prosumer devices.]] Oh, good. Sir, when it comes to... because the prosumer obviously doesn't have to be the only one who uses photovoltaic panels, there may be other solutions here, but I understand that's not the point. In the case of photovoltaic panels we are dealing with 3 main components: the photovoltaic cell itself, whose production in Poland, as far as I know, is not carried out, is mostly imports from China; the panel, i.e. binding, connecting it; the electronic part allowing the entire device to work at the right point. I don't want to get involved in physical and electronic details and switch current to alternating current. When it comes to the production of panels, when it comes to the production of both inverters and control devices, we have Polish producers, we have had more of them, but actually several of them in recent years have declared bankruptcy, because they have simply not seen the market. Unfortunately, we also have very strong competition from China. Well, these are jobs in technically advanced areas. But does this area require special attention other than, for example, when we're at RES, the area of heat pumps, electric cars? I assume these are the same instruments we use for start-ups. But we're really trying to direct this special attention of the government to things where the world is taking very fast steps forward, such as. electric mobility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u183	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u184	Minister, the bill provides a good solution in the assessment of probably everyone, i.e. the ability of local and regional self-government units to start energy production, which are created in local governments. My question is as follows, Minister. I don't think that's exactly included in this law, but it's about strategy. For the following years, will the support of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management continue to be maintained for the prosumer and extended to various types of local government units? Would you mind answering that question? If you don't, I'll ask for an answer in writing, but if you could get it... And just one remark, Minister. In Poland, huge quantities of photovoltaic panels are produced, but these are produced by American companies, among others. Jabil company, which 100% they export, and then it goes back to Poland. So that's so... Chinese imports are falling so much when it comes to photovoltaic cells. But it's just information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u185	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u186	Well, I don't really see the logic in producing in Poland, exporting to the US and returning... [[I don't see her either, but I do.]] Okay, apparently some work is done at least on paper... [[But that's an explanation.]] We assume that since our manufacturers are able to compete, for example. on the American market, it is all the more so that we open for them an additional market share in Poland. As far as NFOŚ instruments are concerned, NFOŚ had such instruments, they were used. Will they continue? We are waiting for this law to take its final form, and then probably the President of NFOŚ will consult us in some way as to how the policy will be pursued in this area. I assume that support should be provided in areas that provide some social, economic benefits and will be adequate for the effective use of this instrument. So I wouldn't be surprised, however, if NFOŚ were to pay particular attention to the support of public school organisations and institutions. I think there's more scope here, and more efficiency, and the benefits of it... But, as I'm saying, there's no decision on that right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u187	Thank you, Minister. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u188	I agree, Minister, that so far there have been many irregularities with regard to the bill that we are amending today. I've always thought that you have to listen to those who have some doubts. Hence my vote at the committee meeting. I'd like to ask you a quick question, because to this day I have these doubts. Minister, does the right to determine budgets and volumes for individual baskets mean that some baskets may not receive this volume and budget at all? However, this has already happened under the implementing regulations in 2015. It may happen that the category of other installations, another basket will be empty, which will result in such technology being excluded from the auction in a given year. A legislative mechanism that can lead to such a result, Minister, to my knowledge violates the competition rules in the European Union. What do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u189	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u190	I am not aware of the fact that the European Union prohibits governments from conducting industrial policy. In this context, I would put it a little differently. In fact, the analysis-based government will announce the baskets with which they will be filled. In extreme cases, some basket won't show up. On the other hand, it is very unlikely that the government will say: for other solutions, we thank you. The cascade mechanism was built here and therefore also the order is important, order in the sense that if an area is overestimated from the point of view of investors' interest and the power of RES will not be purchased, it will go to the next order of basket. These auctions will take place in some sort of sequence. In this situation, these other solutions, as the logic suggests, should be at the end and consume at least that part of previously unused energy. I would like to point out that the previous government has already introduced in the plan a definition of the number of different RES sources that are a mix. For example, wind turbines have reached the planned level for 2020. Should further support be given in this regard? Well, it will lead to a deepening of the market in favour of one technology, perhaps justified, perhaps not. This will be the subject of analysis prior to the adoption of this regulation. [[I particularly thank you for this last sentence that this will be the subject of analysis. It's important not to leave it alone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u191	Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Minister. And now Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u192	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question about the estimates of the implementation of this law. Did the government make such estimates? This is an increase in the availability capacity of a power plant based on sources, which is foreseen by the Act. The second question concerns the percentage of energy produced by renewable energy sources. I understand that there will also be an increase in RES energy percentage relative to electricity from all other sources. I also have this question: what is the forecasted amount of government support, I understand that this will depend on a year For the implementation of this law? What's it going to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u193	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u194	Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. The RES target fulfils 2 roles. On the one hand, it provides a certain minimum to which we have committed ourselves to the European Union. The final effect on this minimum will be measured in 2020. On the way there are some kind of intermediate points, which do not have a control weight, are informative. Anyone, so to speak, overcoming this objective can be viewed as beneficial to the environment, but it certainly entails an increase in the burden. According to preliminary estimates, the additional percentage of RES in the energy mix is about PLN 1 billion passed on to individual consumers and companies. We are a country for achievements, and therefore we must measure our intentions for strength and moderate these ambitions according to our capabilities. I believe that there is a part of the citizens who are not very able to bear significant energy increases in order to achieve the climate target. As we treat citizens equally, we must also consider this as a component of this policy. As for the part of the co-incinerating question, it is now a question of considering two factors. Co-incineration in the Act is permitted under very special conditions involving the requirement of special installations. Therefore, in auctions, the amount of resources that we will spend on this will be based on the day-to-day recognition of the intentions and capabilities of operators to build this type of power. These must be special feeders, specially constructed furnaces, and it's not like some people think they're taking a shovel and throwing some elements in there. That may have been the case, but it's been a while. This biomass has to have specific parameters. It's not like you can put anything in a furnace, even for co-burning biomass. Usually, the manufacturer determines exactly what can be thrown in. And therefore, at the moment, the creation at the law level of estimates, how much and at what point it will appear, is a case, because this is also due to the characteristics of the aura, the characteristics of the sowing, the characteristics of the waste. So, if you'll excuse us, this bill has been prepared at a very rapid pace and these estimates are very slim. We assume that biomass will be an important and important component. The characteristics of agricultural biomass will be defined by the Ministry of Agriculture; please pay attention to the delegations concerning the Regulation. As a result of such consultations, we will also evaluate part of this component in order to manage this part of the potential. This biomass is treated as agricultural waste, so it needs to be managed as fully as possible, but there is no point in overestimating it. And here is a very large role of experts from the Minister of Agriculture and its subordinate institutes in terms of good suggestions on how to set this against the background of the whole RES target.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u195	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u196	Minister, how and with what instruments of this law will those managers of public institutions who wish to install small installations of renewable energy be able to benefit from? Will non-energy entrepreneurs, if they wish to install such an installation for their own and not only their own needs, be able to obtain support under this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u197	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u198	I'm not sure I understand the question of how institutional managers will be able to benefit from... These are the rules... (Senator Mieczysław Augustyn: Which institutions...) Well, that's the principle of the economy of the budgetary institutions that some expenditure has to plan. They can use loans, they can use various financial instruments, as if they were buying, I don't know, equipment for the classroom or they were renovating the building. A moment ago, the discussion asked whether there would be additional support instruments. Maybe they will. I would point out that, speaking of the prosumer instrument, we assume that there is no public aid in it, so potentially in the investment area there is a place for public aid, and this is transparent for that instrument. Speaking of economic operators, I would like to say that we want this to be very clear: no one in Poland can be discriminated against and deprived of some of the rights, but the prosumer activity, in accordance with today's law, is required to work on a change in this area. It is not an economic activity. So if an entrepreneur living in an individual home in which he conducts his business will set up a photovoltaic panel and be a prosumer, there is nothing to prevent it. However, if it purchases these panels and includes them in costs, whether in the form of depreciation or directly, the tax control will be able to challenge this because it is not part of its business activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u199	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I just want to make sure I understand the Minister correctly...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u200	In short, the institutions will not be able to benefit from this desert mechanism... Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u201	I don't understand why they couldn't... [[Well, I'm just asking if they can.]] Well, of course they can. They are explicite included in the text of the Act. [[Because the Minister has sailed, so to speak, towards investment and...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u202	The Minister explained that the institutions also... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Yes.]] ...they'll be able to benefit. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Yes, they can.]] Now, Senator Florek, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u203	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm a member of the 2nd committee, and I happen to be not on the Economics Committee, but I'm not on the Agriculture Committee either, so the apples you mentioned, I won't be able to discuss... What I'm interested in is what you said is that the fundamental objective is to protect the environment, that's what's most important and that all actions are being carried out in this direction... Well, that's right. But if we look at renewable energy in the context of an energy mix, what it looks like with hard coal, brown coal and what it looks like with renewable energy... Of course, you said that when it comes to renewable energy and wind turbines, this level for 2020 actually... we've come to this... Given these changes to the rules that are being introduced, regarding micro-installations, where there were old tariffs, which will not be... From all of this it seems that as far as renewable energy is concerned, we've stopped a little bit like we've come to the conclusion that it's too expensive, that it's unstable, that it's not too cost-effective and that it's more expensive than coal. And it's like we want to... Hence my question: do we withdraw from this renewable energy, or will we continue to support it? Because when it comes to coal or lignite, of course there are pros and cons, but it is not said that energy from RES is more expensive, because it does not include all costs. Therefore, the question is: will we continue to support RES? And second question. I'm going to go back to that 300 km, Minister, to that biomass, because these are special ovens, etc. And I'm wondering... Because when it comes to coal... I have experience with brown coal, I had the opportunity to build a brown coal power plant somewhere in Turkey, we delivered it for 5 km to the power plant... Because it's always been that where we extract, where there's a power source, it's best to build a power plant. Now we're also discussing, for example. The brown coal, because we know that there are such places and it will be difficult to build... Well, in any case, in connection with this record up to 300 km, it seems to me to be driving something 300 km away... Although it is written up to 300 km, why is it so much? It seems to me that this is inefficient and that this energy from biomass will be more expensive, especially since we cannot always calculate the cost of this energy accurately, because we will not take into account all the costs that are. So I have these two questions. For a further RES case and for this biomass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u204	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u205	Mr. Senator, the 2020 RES target is well known. We do everything. For example, this law In order to meet it to achieve it, it is difficult to say in this respect that this energy will not be supported. As for the cost of this energy, I think that the level of subsidies that are dedicated to the RES sector, which is estimated at about 2?3 billion per year, is comparable to the total amount of far-reaching subsidies for the sector, let's call it yes, coal, because mining pensions are also included in this, etc. Although this is not quite the case because pensions are present in many sectors and this is not the only sector that has been treated as a result of restructuring in such a way that people who were already close to retirement age have been suggested to retire. So it's not like it's a simple bill. But, objectively speaking, producing energy from brown coal today is the cheapest, even if it takes account of CO2 emissions charges. Next, from hard coal. However, there is a problem with the correct assessment of the cost of generating electricity, for example by turbine-type sources, because on the one hand they have certificates that involve subsidies, on the other hand they have close to zero so-called marginal costs, i.e. operating costs. So in this case, it pays to sell energy for a symbolic zloty. Which causes certain turbulence on the energy exchange, because as the wind blows, the price of this energy at the same time falls very rapidly, which causes the exclusion of sources that are not so dynamic and cannot act temporarily, because for wind energy, in general for RES energy, there is a preference for the possibility of putting off this energy. This preference shall, in accordance with the principles adopted in the Union, be maintained. But it is not for today that we can, even in the short term, say to ourselves that with RES we are able to produce all the energy that we need for our citizens. There were such days in Germany, e.g. 1 January 2016 When the amount of energy produced from RES was around zero. During that time, other sources had to supply energy. Please also pay attention to the enormous potential of this sector It is now greater than the potential of the rest of the sectors in Germany. So you can see that there must still be some common sense mix of energy and there must be conventional sources. I would also like to add that a further part of the plan is being prepared, as is the Polish nuclear power industry. But that's not for today, if you'll excuse the marshal. [[Thank you...]] (Senator Piotr Florek: The 300 km...) [[Why not 100? Why 300?]] Oh, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the thing: it's not a price increase mechanism, it's a maximum distance, so plus minus, an area close to something that we can consider to be local... So here we are considering the economy of our country, not ours and all neighbouring countries. However, if the source is closer to the border, this area will, of course, catch and land outside the border. And this large area is due to the fact that we have different characteristics of biomass. We will try to write it down in more detail in the regulation and as if to define these conditions not so much on the basis of distance, which is by nature a little inadequate, but taking into account the nature of biomass, which can be considered as local biomass. This definition came up for the first time and we want to develop it in the regulation so as to actually use local resources rather than help the transport sector carry things that do not need to be carried.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u206	Thank you. Minister, I am pleased that you point to ecology as a fundamental objective. I am all the more pleased that you are a representative of the Ministry of Energy, and Poland is such a resort country when it comes to management. But I have a question for you. Gas plants should be complemented by these RES sources, especially wind power plants. Non-carbon Which can be quickly integrated into the system and quickly turned off. Are you expecting to build some new gas plants?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u207	First of all, we have some wind power plants. Second... [[No, no, it's the gas.]] Excuse me, gas. I slipped my tongue. Therefore, at some level, there is a possibility for the current resources to be moderated. I would like to point out that Poland has very limited resources of its own natural gas. As a result, further expansion of these capacities could mean that we are energy dependent on other countries, especially countries that do not always have a friendly policy for us. This must therefore be done with great care. So we're prioritising this energy mix at this point when it comes to RES, where we're going to get as much as possible sources that are stable or predictable. Maybe that's a better word. And where it will be necessary to complete this part of RES requirements through wind turbines, we will indeed be looking for the best solutions. And here I agree with the marshal that it would be easiest to use sources generating electricity based on gas, because they are relatively easy to moderate. But it is also not that, in some way, we are unable to respond to the impulses of existing generation demand by conventional power plants. So this is the object over which the National Power Disposition leans. It is also a kind of base, and this is why we are currently discussing the power market that is opening up and how to ensure that the country's energy capacity is minimal. We will most likely base it on the strategic raw material, which is at our disposal, namely coal. And since it takes years to prepare investment in nuclear energy, perhaps we can also predict the entry of nuclear energy in about 10 years. I answered the question. [[That's what you said.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u208	I take it you're not planning on building new gas plants, which are, at the moment, enough? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: In any case, not mass.]] Yes. Yes. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Now, Mr. Senator. Please. Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u209	Minister, I have a question about the question you asked the marshal. Because we don't have that kind of opportunity right now. I'm talking about the gas obtained from the gasification of our coal resources. And then we have those conditions that you were talking about, which is independent of the supply from the outside, we have a steady supply of raw materials. This is also possible to perform. That's the kind of installations in the world that work. There's talk of South Africa, Sasol, China. He can draw attention to this direction. That would be very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u210	I still want to ask. Do we have gas from the mine degassing? Because these installations are either or should be, I think. Are we using this gas, or are there chances of increasing the use of this gas that's in the mines and that's actually blowing up? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Not anymore.]] Not anymore...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u211	I mean, I can't say that he doesn't fly, but there's an instrument that's already been, and the previous crew saw it and introduced it. Perhaps we should consider whether he has actually explorated the existing potential here. There's a slight problem with using this gas from the point of view of this... As we recall, there were candles that sometimes burned and sometimes didn't burn, so here's the question of solving a few technical problems. But there's a support instrument for this type of gas. Moreover, it can also be used as part of a mix, because it can be accumulated, it can be used for moderation. Here's one more thing I'm going to say, because the gas refers to things. We believe that it is also important to create opportunities, e.g. for biogas plants, after cleaning gas discharge, this may also be methane, i.e. de facto natural gas. In this sense, of course, we will support the development of gas energy in different dimensions, both in the thermal and in the production of electricity, in cogeneration, which gives greater efficiency. But we have to solve the problem of what to do with the heat when it's summer. Do you want me to switch them to winter? Well, let's just say, it's a little harder to do. There are a lot of studies in this area. I'm gonna go back to gassing the coal. This technology exists, its only drawback is the price. She has certain benefits due to the fact that all these emissions, with which we would normally have a lot of trouble, are largely eliminated at the very beginning. However, as long as there is no simple translation that potential emission restrictions force this approach, it is very difficult to put coal gassing in energy terms on this disregulated energy market across Europe, unfortunately, precisely because in this case the cost of manufacturing is significantly higher than the cost of manufacturing. It's normally carbon. So the work is now moving towards... Because there are also Polish research institutes, there are companies that prepare this, there are also solutions offered from abroad, sometimes more, sometimes less promising. And in all this, we are trying to find a Polish way to remember in the end, however, that the consumer asks: okay, but how much will I pay for this electricity? And this is also a question of the competitiveness of the Polish economy, and a question of the fate of normal everyday citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u212	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, sir. There are no more questions for you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Andrzej Piotrowski: Thank you very much.]] Thank you for your comprehensive answers. I know there will be questions for the representative of the Directorate-General for State Forests. There you go. I have a first question for you. There was information that, as part of co-incineration, some power plants co-fired with full-scale wood. I know that State Forests sell wood in the form of auctions for large companies, small companies, etc. Did the Forests protect themselves from such a situation, that for example. comes a big customer, from a big company, buys wood, good wood, and throws them in a boiler? I'm asking you this because I know things were like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems that the best security will be what is currently contained in the draft law that is being discussed and the definition of energy wood, because this definition clearly states that wood is a wood raw material which, due to its physical and chemical characteristics, has a reduced technical and useful value which prevents its industrial use. Of course, there are currently no regulations that prohibit the burning of any wood. The definition of full-value wood, which was introduced in the RES Act in 2012, was based on commercial groups. These wood trading groups are determined on the basis of qualitative and dimensional characteristics. At that time, wood marked with S2AC and S2AP symbols was included in the full-value wood. These are respectively industrial energy stack wood and general purpose stack wood. The energy industry lost interest in these wood trading groups because the energy produced from this raw material could not be included in renewable energy sources. As long as we have had a clear advantage of demand for supply on the wood raw material market And this was the case in the period around 2011 and wood from these two commercial groups was found to be buyers, although a very large number of complaints were characteristic. The woodworking industry usually expected wood with much better quality-dimensional parameters. In a situation where we observe cooling on the wood raw material market, and this has been happening since last year. For us, such a barometer of the situation on the wood raw material market is one of the sales modes, so-called. system auctions, where the price is fully market-driven, are being auctioned by customers, all customers have access; in the second half of 2015 the price on these system auctions fell by around 10% and this trend remained also with system auctions for 2016, where the price fell by a further 12% Therefore, when it comes to cooling on the wood raw material market, first of all there is a problem with the disposal of wood belonging to the two commercial groups I was talking about. And I would like to point out that the supply of wood with the characteristics of energy wood in general is increasing, because wood is the derivative of the total extraction size. It is from 15% up to 20% of total extraction size. Because it's growing in recent years, it's the result of growing potential. I'm just going to give you to imagine, for example, that just after World War II, the forestist in our country was 20.9%. , currently it is 29.4% and the stock of wood on the trunk was 900 million m3 respectively, currently over 1 billion 900 million m3. This causes that over the last 20 years the size of the extraction has increased virtually twice, and this potential causes that also in future years the size of the extraction will increase. On the one hand, this leads to the possibility of providing an increasing amount of wood raw material for the wood industry, but on the other hand it also affects the supply of wood with poor quality-dimensional parameters and physicochemical characteristics will increase. We are currently seeing a problem with the sale of precisely this wood with qualitative and dimensional characteristics and physicochemical characteristics that qualify this wood for energy wood, we are seeing a problem with the sale of this wood raw material. There doesn't seem to be much hope that this trend will turn out quickly, because we are now actually seeing oversupply of medium-sized wood all over Europe. One more thing I would like to draw attention to, one thing I would like to emphasise. This situation is getting worse and worse. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been observing the increase in dry matter, not only spruce, but also pine, for the past two years. For the first time in many years, there has been a problem called. A spicy tooth. This is the effect of the drought we've had in our country in recent years. I'd like to give you some information. Well, all last year, when it comes to obtaining pine-drying, it's wood that's produced as a result of a reduced level of groundwater... Pine-trees, which account for about 60%. in general in our country, they do not withstand this phenomenon of groundwater decline and there is an increased separation of desiccation. Last year 616 thousand m3 of this raw material was acquired, and since last year to date 836 thousand m3 of this raw material has been acquired. A similar phenomenon occurs in the case of spruce. If it is not possible to use this wood, among others. for energy purposes, there will be no recipient for this wood. At the moment, only in RDLP Wrocław there are about 20,000 m3 of dry wood on the landfills. It's wood, to put it graphically, it's just gonna rot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u214	Thank you, Mr. Director. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Director! Just a quick question. Can it be concluded from the statement that the Director has now made that the amendment concerning defective wood used to obtain energy... that you are the author of this amendment to the bill? To ask for an answer. And second question. I understand, Mr. Director, that you are taking advantage of a whole range of opportunities for the use of defective wood in the wood industry, not only in the production of furniture, but also in plates and all other derivatives, because you will not be able to sell this incomplete wood when it comes to the balance sheet in 2016. Yes? Was there such a trend in 2015, or what you are talking about is only about 2016?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u216	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u217	Mr. Senator, from the very beginning, as soon as the definition of full-value wood began, we reported that it was a mistake, in our view, to refer to trade groups in the creation of this definition for the reasons I have said. The inclusion of S2P and S2C commercial groups in full-value wood was inappropriate because it is wood with typical energy characteristics intended for industrial use. From wood which is used by retail consumers for fuel purposes, this wood differs only and only at the VAT rate. In terms of qualitatively dimensional parameters, there is nothing different. Since it was wood intended for industrial customers, VAT was 23% and for individual customers 8%. Despite this, wood was classified as full-value wood. As far as I know, this is a parliamentary project. We were invited to the Ministry of Energy to talk at the moment when the project for the definition of energy wood appeared. During the talks, we supported this definition of energy wood. As I understand it, the Ministry of Energy has agreed to this definition, and that is the position of the government, and that is also the position of the State Forests. We are in favour of this definition of energy wood. As far as the second question is concerned, we are definitely seeing the problem at the moment. We are trying to respond in advance to some of the phenomena we are observing. There is no other way to fight the phenomenon of pine, spruce, such as the removal of settled trees and the refusal to spread gradation, whether it's a pomegranate coat in the case of pine, or a spruce root. That's what's causing... A year ago we estimated that this dried wood, both spruce and pine wood, could be about 1 million m3. Based on the rate of release of this desiccant, we estimate that this year it could be 2 million m3. Last year we were also dealing with this phenomenon, but on a much smaller scale. The wood that didn't sell caused the supply to be increased at the end of the year. As I said, at the moment only in the Regional Directorate of State Forests in Wrocław is stored about 20,000 m3 of dry wood. The problem is that because it's dried wood, it's dead wood, it's highly susceptible to depreciation, destructive phenomena, there's a very fast entry of sinew, rot. These are still parameters that allow industrial processing of this wood, but at the moment when the so-called. Soft sinis, which virtually precludes the use of wood for industrial purposes. This wood still has the characteristics of energy wood for a certain period of time, but in such wood there is also a very rapid loss of calories. After a while, this wood also loses its calorie capacity and loses its energy qualities, it just rots. And that's what we'd like to prevent. Thank you very much. [[Shortly, Mr. Director.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u218	There you go. Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u219	Mr. Director, back to that... Could you say what is the approximate value, what is the number in relation to the total yield in the year, in terms of non-material wood with energy characteristics, which you estimate for one year, suppose, by 2016 or 2017? And one more question. Mr. Director, do I understand correctly that this dried wood is neither suitable for plate production nor for the pulp industry. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u220	Not exactly, Senator. As I said, wood is susceptible to depreciation and destruction processes. So at some point this wood is of course suitable for industrial processing, but the long passage of this wood causes a sharp decline in its quality. And that's why we propose, i.e. This amendment aims to build on the qualification of wood for energy wood, not on qualitative and dimensional parameters, but on the physical and chemical characteristics of wood, because the depreciation of wood affects not only medium-dimensional sortements, but also large-dimensional sortements. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, around 6 million m3 of wood raw material is spent annually in our country for energy purposes. This is the sum of all forests, both from forests managed by the State Forests and from private forests. [[Now. Yes?]] Yes. In comparison, I would like to give you a few figures, as is the case in other countries. In Austria, with a forest area of 3.4 million ha, the amount of wood has energy targets of 17.8 million m3; in the Czech Republic the area of forests is 2.6 million ha, the amount of wood for energy purposes is 10.7 million ha; in Germany the area of forests is 11.1 million ha, the amount of wood for energy purposes of 19 million m3; in Italy the area of forests is 10.5 million ha, and the amount of wood for energy purposes 22.3 million m3. In our country it looks like the total area of forests and public and private, and as regards other forms of ownership The amount of wood is 9.2 million ha. for energy purposes, 6 million m3. The regulations that are now are much more restrictive than in other countries. In our opinion, this definition of full-value wood, which is currently in the Act, for the reasons I have been talking about, is wrong. Thank you. [[One last question, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u221	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u222	Mr. Director, I take it from your statement that, as I understand it, we have such a situation that there is a large amount of dry wood. [[Deputy Director General of State Forests Krzysztof Janeczko: Yes, sir.]] We want to sell this wood as soon as possible for obvious reasons, because of the losses you've been talking about. So now, since it's operational... because of the possibility of agreeing with the pulp and paper industry and the plate manufacturing industry, it would be possible to use all of this wood. When this agreement does not take place, wood stored, losing its value, must be used for firewood. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u223	Yes, Mr. Senator. If I may, I'd like to fill in. This would not be a problem if we were faced with a situation on the wood market as in previous years. At present, due to the oversupply of wood, especially medium-sized wood, we are seeing the phenomenon of decoupling during the implementation of contracts that we are currently signing with the wood industry. There's a delay in the sale of wood, about 1.5%. all over the country. This is particularly true of medium-sized wood. And unfortunately, when there is a significant and even very significant amount of dried wood And it's going to be permanent, probably in the next few years. The acquisition of this wood cannot be prevented. And, as I said, there are no other means of combating this phenomenon, such as the removal of such wood. We fear and expect considerable difficulties in finding a buyer for them, so in our view it would be justified to use our raw material base optimally by enabling it to be defined in the regulation. As far as I know, there is a delegation for 3 ministers: Minister of Energy, Minister of Economy and Minister of Environment . such physical and chemical characteristics of wood as would qualify them for energy purposes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u224	Minister, you are talking about a situation where the said energy wood is covered with VAT of different sizes. If an individual buys them 'Cause, I understand, that's what this is all about. This is VAT 8%. [[Deputy Director General of State Forests Krzysztof Janeczko: Yes, sir.]] If the company is a VAT of 22%. [[Room voice: 23%.]] 23%. Is there therefore a possibility of such a procedure that a private person buys with VAT 8% And then he sells it back to those who would pay you 22%. ? Is that a possibility, legally? I'm not talking about some scam. Are there any barriers here? I have to say that I understand why 8% for an individual... but 2 different VAT rates? Well, there's a difference until... [[Voice from the room: Korci.]] ...horci. I don't know. But I'm surprised. I didn't know that. Are they so... Can a private customer buy timber from you in unlimited quantities, paying VAT 8% And sell them to a power plant that has to pay... which would pay you a VAT of 22%. ?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u225	Mr. Marshal, I'm guessing there's no legal obstacle to such an operation. Nevertheless, a plant that would buy such wood would still have to pay 23% When he bought them. [[No, why? VAT shall be recovered if... VAT is the same amount. I understand there's no such thing as you haven't noticed...]] No, we didn't notice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u226	Thank you very much. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Director, thank you very much. There are no more questions for you. [[Deputy Director General of State Forests Krzysztof Janeczko: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar the Member State. There's no senator? You're a senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u227	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to propose an amendment to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is replaced by the following: "The Minister responsible for energy matters shall, by means of a regulation, amend the share referred to in Article. 59 Act as amended by Art. 1 for 2017, but not less than 17% , taking into account the nature of the undertaking, the amount of electricity produced in micro-installations and small installations, the obligations arising from international agreements, the current share of electricity and renewable energy fuels in total energy and fuel consumed in energy and transport, the amount of biogas produced and the price of electricity in the competitive market, by 30 November 2016. The Energy Minister may once again reduce the share referred to in Article. 59 Act as amended by Art. 1 for 2021. Between 2018 and 2020 the amount of the share referred to in Article. 59 Act as amended by Art. 1. is 20% It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. The amendment aims to restore balance in the market for certificates of origin, i.e. green certificates. The incorrect decisions and omissions of the regulatory centre in the previous mandate have resulted in a significant oversupply of certificates of origin currently on the market, more than 20TWh, which already exceeds their annual obligation to be remitted by energy suppliers to final customers for 2016. Thus, the proposals of the provisions contained in the draft RES Act consisting of a mandatory change, or in fact a de facto reduction of the obligation to waive green certificates in 2017 below the level laid down in the Law of 20 February 2015 are a decisive step which aggravates the market situation of certificates of origin. It is difficult to predict what reduction the Minister may accept, and from the models available on the market for market developments in green certificates it is clear that oversupply of certificates of origin will increase and the price of certificates of origin will decrease unless the obligation to waive certificates of origin is maintained at 20%. in the following years, i.e. 2017/12021. Contrary to frequent comments that support for renewable energy sources has a significant impact on energy prices for final customers, RES industry experts show that if an increase in the average price of a certificate of origin is assumed to be PLN 200 per MWh from PLN 100 per MWh, this could charge the sale of electricity to the final consumer of PLN 14 per MWh. For the average household, this would mean an increase in energy bills of 3 zł per month this year, that is about 2%. This is a theoretical estimate relating only to the price impulse associated with the increase in price and the number of green certificates to be redeemed. In practice, this impulse may be irrelevant or hidden in other factors of energy price change. It is worth noting that despite a close threefold decrease in the price of certificates of origin after 2011, from about 300 PLN for 1 MWh to less than 100 PLN and now it amounts to 80 PLN and at the same time almost 20% decrease in wholesale energy prices for final customers after 2011 the price of energy remains at the same or even slightly increasing level. It is therefore difficult to talk about the direct impact of increasing the obligation to reduce the price of energy, unless correlation occurs in only one direction. The current cost of RES support is 3,7% the total cost of electricity for the final customer. The absence of a definition in the Minister's law of reduction causes chaos and deterioration in the market for certificates of origin. This can result in the collapse of many RES companies, because they will not be able to pay the loan instalments for investments in RES. These companies are already on the brink of insolvency. The newly passed law on windmills, in colloquially speaking, will kill and eliminate wind energy in Poland, and now the lack of clarification and reduction of the level of certificate remission can kill RES in Poland. Please accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u228	Thank you, Senator. But make an amendment. Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grażyna Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Before I begin to submit amendments, I would like to address Minister Piotrowski because this principle is being repeated more and more often, the situation that the Minister comes to us and draws attention to the senators, instructs them. I wish I could. I don't know what kind of ministerial experience you have to point out that you're a marshal, possibly from teaching us senators. Plus, we got used to it or we got used to it by our constituents. If... [[Senator, I have drawn the attention of the Minister.]] As far as the Minister is concerned, even if the questions are inappropriate or repeated, the Minister should answer them. Now I'm going to move on to the bill. Since this law has created and has produced many negative opinions, I believe that it is necessary to make at least a few amendments to it. I myself was a participant in the conference and the amendments tabled The five of them are the result of many questions and doubts of the participants of this conference. Amendment 1 concerns Article. 1 point (2) (a) g. After point 16, the following point 16a is inserted: installed PV modules or energy converters (e.g. inverters) adjusting the electrical parameters of energy to the requirements of the electricity grid. Reason. Total installed power Electric is one of the most important parameters that classify renewable energy installations in the Act. This capacity is determined by the support system granted to the installation and many other requirements related to connection to the network and further operation. The lack of precise definition is too broad a scope for interpretation and abuse. The proposed definition is very universal, covering the specificities of different RES technologies, while at the same time being very simple and intuitive. The example cited in the photovoltaics provides an even better interpretation of the intentions of the legislator. Amendment 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 3, at the point giving a new wording to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The words "for three-phase micro-installations' are deleted. Reason. The limitation of full interphase energy balancing to three-phase micro-installations will hit the poorest prosumers who want to have low-power RES installations below 4 kW. In such cases, it is technically impossible or completely unjustified to build a three-phase micro-installation. In the case of a single phase micro-installation of RES and balancing separately in each prosumer phase, there will be limited possibilities to increase energy consumption, which is one of the main intentions of the legislator. As the home receivers are so distributed over each power supply phase that they are a relatively uniform load on the electricity grid, this is due to the conditions of connection to the network. The phase to which the micro-installation is attached cannot be artificially loaded, because if it does not function there will be an uneven load on the house's power phases. Amendment 3. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (3) at the point giving the new wording of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 11 delete words... Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 is replaced by the following: "A surplus of the amount of electricity put into the grid by a prosumer in relation to the amount of energy it collects from the network under the waste management system shall be purchased by the seller referred to in Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a, at a price equal to the average energy price on the competitive market announced by the President of the URE for the period covered by the balance sheet. The mouth is removed. 12. Reason. If the surplus not consumed by a prosumer of energy were the revenue of the energy seller, it would be highly likely that the European Commission would consider it unacceptable to state aid. For Prosumers, waste savings will have a much higher value than revenues from wholesale energy sales, as in a competitive market. Therefore, you should not be afraid of deliberately over-dimension of the RES installation. According to all calculations, even a 15-year period of use of waste disposal systems will not result in prosumers returning the expenditure incurred on the construction of micro-installations. Leaving prosumers after this period without any sources of revenue, apart from saving energy consumed immediately without adding it to the grid, will make this situation even worse. In addition, in the social perception, the energy salesman's capture of all the surplus produced by the prosumer will be regarded as the most ordinary theft, and this will undermine the citizen's confidence in the institutions of the Republic of Poland. The costs to be incurred by the energy vendor in connection with the Prosumer Micro-Installation of RES should be financed by the RES fee. The argument that in order to sell electricity, a prosumer must carry out an economic activity is not in fact covered. This possibility has existed since the amendment of the Energy Law in 2003, i.e. the so-called "energy law." A little three-pack of energy. I was never required of individuals to start business with a view to selling surplus electricity produced. Prosumers account for energy sales revenue in annual PIT statements, such as other income, for example from the rental of apartments. Amendment 4. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 2 (3) (a), (b), (c), (c), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), In paragraph 8d11: Any load reduction or disconnect from the micro-installation network must be recorded by the settlement and measurement system (s) taking into account the duration and level of load reduction (or disconnect from the network) of the micro-installation. And in the mouth. 8d12: The owner shall be entitled to compensation for the time during which there was a reduction in the load on the micro-installation or its disconnect from the network. In the context of compensation, it is assumed that, during the limitation of the load on the micro-installation (or its disconnect from the network), it could operate with full total installed electrical power and that the electricity not introduced into the grid for this reason is included in the discharge system described in Article. 4 as part of the network. Reason. The amendment aims to combine the security requirements of electricity networks with the rights of owners of micro-installations. Taking into account the right of the OSD to temporarily reduce the power introduced from micro-installations to the network, in the event of a threat to its security, it requires that such situations be accurately recorded and compensated for by these activities to the owners of micro-installations. Since the owners of micro-installations are not responsible for the state of the transmission networks, they cannot indirectly, by limiting the generation capacity of their micro-installations, bear the costs of mismatching the network to the connected RES microsources. The granting of the proposed compensation on the one hand is an adequate compensation for limiting the generation capacity of micro-installations, and on the other hand it is a signal to the OSD to ensure that reductions in the load of micro-installations or their disconnect from the network are applied only as a last resort. The proposed compensation scheme can be compared with the so-called charges. preparedness in the case of conventional energy. Finally, Amendment 5. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (3) at the end of the text describing the wording of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 10 add the words "and shall not be subject to excise duty." Reason. The amendment is editorial in nature, explaining the intention of the legislator without having to check the provisions of the excise duty Act. The amendment will facilitate the understanding and interpretation of the provisions of paragraph 1. 10. Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm handing over the amendments. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Robert Dowhan to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of State Forests! When the debate on this law began in the Sejm, there were such press titles: the Polish RES industry is facing a collapse, the government is funding a record increase in current prices, and we will pay ten times more for coal support than for RES support, the end of civic energy, as well as other titles which in the press, all the more industry-related, more familiar with the issue than most of us, made it clear what you want to announce today in the amendment of this law. The draft law, which entered the Sejm, consisting of 47 amendments to the previous law, was notified by the government This is the result of what I have here written 64 amendments. This indicates that the unprepared, once again, project is really affected, and those who submit this bill are about to amend it. It's kind of embarrassing the government's work, and it's ridiculing the bill itself. I have not read this and today we have not received an answer, neither the rapporteur nor the representatives of the ministry have answered the question of whether there has been a consultation, and if there has been a discussion, what were the positions and how this has affected the level of the law we are talking about. We didn't hear about that today either. Nor have we heard the answer to the question of how the losses will be compensated to those who have already invested, how many of these individual customers are there. We didn't hear that today either. Every one of us... Actually, I don't know. I got such an e-mail and I think that each of the senators got it because I see that it is addressed to everyone, an e-mail from the Polish Chamber of Economics of Renewable and Distributed Energy. I don't know if the Minister had a chance to get to know it, but I think he did, because this discussion was going on, among other things. with the Chamber of Commerce. Allow me to recall a passage. The draft amendment was submitted to the Sejm on 5 May 2016. As a parliamentary project, it did not have to include an impact assessment of the regulation. Nor was it preceded by inter-ministerial consultations. The public consultation was also limited. Legislative work is under pressure and the necessary substantive debate is very limited. This raises concerns that the adoption of the law will not contribute to the creation of a good law and the removal of irregularities, due to the urgency of action. There are also serious substantive reservations from the RES environment. The most important is to exclude the obligation for a seller to purchase electricity from RES generators from sources above 500 kW, making it particularly dependent on the public RES producers on obliged sellers and to consolidate monopolistic practices, and small manufacturers who do not have the ability and IT tools to participate in and bear the costs of wholesale electricity trading can completely deprive them of the ability to sell their energy. Another reservation is the lack of remedial action on the green certificates market, which is in permanent collapse, while the projectors propose a change in 2017. It is likely that the reduction, as recorded in the first version of the project, would have been the obligation to redeem certificates of origin. The publication of the project resulted in the TGE, the Goods Exchange of Energy, an immediate further decline in property rights prices, by several dozen percent. The next reservation is the preference for the development of multi-fuel combustion, which does not create new generation capacity, does not create a technological stimulus or new jobs, additionally requires a steady supply of large quantities of biomass, which is not the most efficient way to use it. The last reservation is to withdraw from the guaranteed tariffs for prosumers Which have been adopted, among others. thanks to the vote of Law and Justice in the previous term of office of the Sejm This may temporarily hinder the development of micro-energy at the level of individual households and farms. In view of all of this, the Civic Platform Club is making a number of amendments. If these amendments do not find recognition in the eyes of the Ministry and the High House, we will request that the law be rejected in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u232	Thank you, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki, please take the floor. [[And he wasn't supposed to speak.]] [[But he changed his mind.]] [[You asked me not to speak, and you pushed. I'm gonna be...]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet. [[I'll be brief.]] [[I'll look at the watch.]] [[Look.]] I'm the watchman, Mr. Senator. [[I won't. Don't worry.]] I was talking to Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I will speak briefly because I have long spoken in our Committee on National Economy and Innovation. But I'm gonna allow myself to say the sentences that need to be expressed in this group, because this is a very important bill. I would like to say that the records we are working on today are unacceptable in their present form. Their adoption will make Poland have to say goodbye to the many benefits that modern, innovative wind energy offers us at the moment. Wind farms provide thousands of jobs, generate more than PLN 630 million annual tax revenue for the government and local government sector. The municipalities that have wind power plants on their territory gain on average over PLN 1 million a year in tax revenues alone. Do you really not see that we can lose all of this if we adopt laws that will make wind power stations simply stop developing? Stopping the development of wind energy and then replacing it with other renewable energy technologies will undoubtedly affect the finances of local authorities above all. The municipalities will lose potential revenue, inter alia, from real estate tax and from participation in PIT and CIT taxes, which can be paid by owners of newly created wind power plants. The government asked me very much to emphasize it. The analyses indicate that only within the framework of the PIT revenues of the municipality already in 2018 and 2020 will they lose over PLN 200 million in total and will lose almost PLN 100 million each year. In addition, the lack of replacing aging wind installations with new ones will make this loss simply increase in the years to come. Each emerging new wind power plant means tangible benefits, of which it is not in Poland's interest to give up. If investments, wind farms, have to give way to other technologies, this will mean an increase in the cost of energy production. I repeat once again: increasing the cost of energy production. All because of the fact that the energy that would be produced by wind farms under the new auction system for renewable energy sources will have to be replaced by another more expensive installations produced by it. The increased cost of energy production will be the most costly for consumers, but let me remind you that entrepreneurs too. Is this about Poles paying more for electricity? For the municipalities to lose a stable source of income and for more than 8,000 people to lose their jobs? To discourage investors from investing on the Vistula River and show that Poland is not a country worth investing in? Dear Senators, I repeat the amendments I tabled at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The amendments I would like to propose are aimed at avoiding the situation that if the energy volume in a given technological mix is not used, it will not be used at all. There is no provision under which unused volumes of energy go to the next auction basket, which would result in the completion of each of the announced auctions with the contract provided for in its energy volume. This lack will cause a lot of uncertainty on the market and also on the side of the government administration, as it may lead to an increase in the so-called RES gap in each subsequent auction, i.e. a situation in which the amount of energy contracted from RES in auctions will be too low to meet the current goal of Poland, i.e. Okay, I'll remind you. 15% by 2020. In such a situation, it will be necessary to publish further supplementary auctions continuously, which will only increase the level of investment uncertainty and administrative complications. In order not to extend, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: first of all, I would like to thank the economic authorities that are interested in this matter and have supported our amendments at the committee meeting. I would like to thank the President of the URE sitting here, Mr Maciej Bando, who agrees with our amendments. Mr President, I would like to thank you very warmly today, here in the Senate, because your support in what we are saying and what we are asking, what we are proposing, shows that we are on a very good path. And perhaps today the senators, if they listen to their colleague, Senator Waldemar the Member, and listen well to his words... Perhaps this will be a historic issue for the first time and these amendments will be taken into account for the sake of our Republic and hardworking people who will not lose their jobs. I would also like to support my colleague, Senator Grażyna Sztark, who has made very customs amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, my last request. Be so kind if you don't listen to us like this, listen to your fellow senator, and he'll explain everything to you because he knows all about it. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u234	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki to speak... [[Senator Blackbay.]] No, no, I'm sorry. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u235	Just 10 minutes, Mrs. Marshal. [[I'm so sorry.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I would like to briefly touch on such 4 levels of the topic that we are discussing today, and of course my entire speech is addressed mainly to respectable guests, to the Minister, to representatives of state institutions, as well as to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice. Maybe someday we'll have a moment where we can at least fix a comma in some bill. [[We were counting on it, too.]] [[Oh, come on.]] I encourage my friend Mątkow to come to the bleachers to tell us what he's been waiting for for eight years. And after what you're presenting, Colleagues Robert, I see what you've been waiting for to bring Poland to ruin. [[Take it easy. That's not true.]] He asked, he asked, and he asked. Therefore, listen to what I would like to say about this law without getting into a great policy. Firstly, as I have said and I will repeat this all the time, a new secular tradition has been born in your issue: the bill enters as a parliamentary project, it is to be adopted quickly, 64 amendments at the start, no consultation. Excellent information from Senator Pekkis on what were the opinions of the institutions that deal with this field. This is the method that you apply to the adoption of very important laws. Many years of work have been devoted to this law, which has been passed. I personally think it's too much. In any case, I attended many conferences, meetings where representatives of the organization made thousands of amendments, which were later processed and discussed. You can see how it is now. The project comes ready and you as state senators can't even correct the comma because you don't have a permit for it. That's the difference. I would like to encourage you to consider what concerns the substantive side and not the political side when it comes to the bill. [[It's deluded! He forgot his ox...]] And that's why we're calling for you to... [[...how Tusk was.]] If that is possible, Mrs. Marshal, I would ask those gentlemen who behave in a non-cultural way either to remove themselves from the Chamber, or to ask, in particular, Mr. Ryszka, for their cultural presence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u236	Mr. Senator, please... [[I didn't say anything at all.]] I ask the senators to behave... [[I'm sorry if you're the ventriloquist... you don't say anything and you hear your voice.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You have nothing to say...]] Good. That's how we determine that the senators don't comment, and Senator Czarnobaj continues to... [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Ruina!]] [[Ruin is on the Platform now, not in Poland.]] ...presents his speech. Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. And continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u237	So I'm going back to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, it is born, I apologize, I will say in the past time, and it is an economy that has been developing quite rapidly. I'm talking about energy, I'm talking about what was being discussed on the occasion of the law that you killed wind energy, and it affected more than 20,000 people already working in wind energy. I do now. There are thousands of people who have been involved in installing, supporting the whole process of building consumer energy production. And what did the Minister say today? To my question, what brings, he says that the bill brings... It's hard for me to quote. The important thing is that this bill pursues social goals. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that it pursues social objectives, environmental protection is an important part of the bill, but no one in the world, except China and probably Russia and Belarus, has implemented any project, if the social objectives have not been linked to environmental objectives. After all, any prosumer who decides whether or not to make such an installation will ask himself about the costs. Apart from the fact that it improves the atmosphere around your home and your neighbor, it just asks: how much will it cost me and does it even pay me? So if it is today, the Minister estimates it, about 12 and 15 years, and as I know life, it is closer to 15 and it was within 6, 7 or 8 years, it is a law that makes things worse, it is a worse proposition for every citizen who wants to install something. There is, of course, a good thing, Minister, namely to extend the RES energy package to public institutions. This is something we've been asking for in the previous project. That wasn't there. It's a good thing you brought it in. If we add to this now that the Minister answers my question about the support from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, that probably, of course, I am speaking in conjecture mode, it will be maintained, it is good information, but if it is kept at the same level, it will have to be spread out into 2 envelopes, i.e. for individual prosumers and for those who are public institutions. This may not be good news, but it's important that there's some backup. In general, I can say that this law, Ladies and gentlemen, completely kills the prosumer market in Poland. She kills it for people who would like to install it in their own place, but also kills the entire market that was created, the market of production, services, etc. And that's the thing that's hard to accept. If we put the whole structure together now, how do you approach renewable energy sources... I just want to remind you that from 2005 to 2014, almost 13% of the share of renewable energy has grown out of 3%. So it was a good move. If you want to stop this, say it directly: we will not support these projects, this, this, this, and this. The best solution is the boiler, coal, we'll put in some surplus wood that we've got here, and we're producing. This is, of course, a huge simplification, but this shows how we approach the whole issue. So we don't produce, we don't support the emergence of new technologies, from the prosumer method to where people do business, through the direction of the money stream, we just support what is most harmful in the world. Although I'm sorry, this is Senator Pekkis with one of the senators who previously explained to me that wind energy is one of the most harmful energy in the world. I'm looking for these papers, I haven't found them yet, but I hope I can find them somewhere. I would also like to say that one of the states in the United States, through its support for prosumer energy production, has increased production from 8 MW to 50 MW over 6 or 8 years. Support is 70%. And that's a citizen's approach. [[The cauldron.]] And this is how you talked about a citizen's approach to all kinds of actions. That was one of the biggest reservations. And you're right. For the activities of the Civic Platform, which often did not listen to the voice about various types of civic projects. I, of course, do not obey you, do so. It's different. If this were in the sphere of certain philosophical actions, then I might not respect you, do so. But you are starting to do it with the Polish economy, because this is a hit in the Polish economy. And now passing smoothly... [[And Sawicka from the Platform...]] What's with the Sawicka guy? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Senator, continue.]] [[I'm just answering the charges.]] [[Quiet in the courtroom, please.]] Mr. Senator, I don't know Mrs. Sawicka, but if you'd like me to introduce you... You'll have a lot to say to each other. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet in the courtroom, please. Proceed.]] [[He doesn't, and he's gonna introduce me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator Ryszka, I'll do anything for you. [[Gentlemen...]] You're such a fantastic senator, I'll do anything for you. [[Then go back to your seat.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Gentlemen, I'm asking you to focus, because we've been debating for about an hour. I'd like your attention, please. Mr. Senator, you've only got a minute, so please continue, but slowly finish your speech.]] Mrs. Marshal, please add up the time this gentleman disturbed me. Now I'm just going to say a little bit more about firewood, energy wood, low-value wood. Notice what came out of that bleacher today. Mr. Director was talking about 6 million m3 when it comes to acquiring wood, let's call it generally, worse, which can also be used as firewood or defective wood. You also said that in many countries there is much more wood even with less wood. Well, of course that's probably true. There's only one thing to say about the other. When statistics on the woodworking industry are looked at, not only furniture production It can be noted that Poland in every area, from furniture, the cellulose industry to the production of plates and other things, is at the forefront of the world. As a result, there is enormous pressure, and here is the need for a state policy aimed at maximum use of wood in situations of maximum use for woodworking, broadly understood, from plate production...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u238	Mr. Senator, time's up. [[This, Mrs. Marshal, will you give me another five minutes?]] Good. [[I hope that during this time Senator Ryszka will come out, then I won't be disturbed.]] But please don't make such a suggestion. You're welcome, gentlemen... [[I'm answering your questions so you don't say...]] Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Let us return to a serious debate on an issue that is extremely difficult. Making a positive decision on Poland's involvement in solving environmental problems and combating climate warming, among others. through the development of renewable energy sources in Poland, it was not easy. In fact, if it weren't for a knife on the throat in the form of a judgment that could already be consumed, it doesn't know how long it would last for all kinds of diwags, negotiations. After many years of discussion, the Platform adopted the RES Act, which especially those who hoped for the development of this small prosumer energy, criticized. I think today they're wondering if it's right. 'Cause at least this bill is so hard. Also difficult for technical, economic, political reasons, it contained clear and, as we thought, permanent mechanisms inspiring that prosumer energy, and renewable energy, would be profitable in Poland. The Minister, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, made this clear yesterday at the committee meeting, explaining that those arrangements with which we parted provided a guarantee of surplus purchase, a guarantee within certain limits of the price of this sale and a guarantee of maintaining the price of energy. All three things this storm bill introduces a whole new mechanism. Minister, saying here that the advantage of this bill is legal certainty at a time when the rules of the game change is probably a joke. I can't take it any other way. I just smiled because it's the only way to comment. Of course it makes you insecure. Of course. Nobody can say today that entrepreneurs will be profitable to sell energy from renewable energy sources. It will not be possible to say after the introduction of this law that it will be worthwhile for prosumers to build installations. You're proposing a mechanism that might be good for rich hobbyists, because it doesn't actually guarantee a return in any rational way. Therefore, for these essential reasons, it is not possible to accept such a form of regulation. We therefore make very many amendments, which, to the extent possible, have to improve these provisions. There's a lot more to it than that. I have said that we have tried to involve the actions proposed by the European Union as a whole. And it must be said that this law, at least on intent and certainly on foreseeable effects, raises doubts about compliance with at least two European Union directives. The one about the RES, I'm sure. In connection with this law, we absolutely cease to promote this sector, Minister. You said you had the right to politics, decision and regulation. You have the right, but you also have to tell the truth in such a situation, that is: we pull the brake to the max and pretend to implement something by means of regulations that are completely against it in the main intention. That is why I make, without much hope of taking into account, amendments that relate and to the issue of co-incineration I don't want to bring this up because she's been raised so many times. And to the definition of prosumer, which we would very much like to improve and modify, and to the question of proportion. Because if this mechanism of waste is to be used, let it be used in a completely different proportion, giving a chance to recover in a faster perspective. Mrs Marshal, Ministers, we are hoping for a fair review of these amendments, to change the current approach, because we must look at this movement not only in the light of what is now, not only in the perspective of this great concern for those who have already invested, not only in the short term, in the context of those who have tried to do so and feel deceived, but also in the long term. And in all these perspectives this is an absolutely wrong solution, because, as Senator Bonkowski said, it will undermine energy prices if we do not make any changes. And what I'm trying to say here is, even if it's just because it's so, so, 106%. , the transitional fee will increase, and the energy price for final consumers will increase proportionally. At the same time, you are trying to drown the government's debt at the price of energy, throwing this problem from your own shoulders to the shoulders of energy consumers. That's the effect we're gonna be watching right now, fast. And please, when making a decision, remember that you are giving Poles an increase in energy prices in the short term, in the medium term and in the long term. And all this, in my opinion, comes from a false calculation that it is possible to keep the dominance of the coal sector in the Polish energy mix as long as possible. At the conference, Mr President, I tried to appeal. I was interested in what happened in other countries with companies that used to run mines. Do you think they're bankrupt? Do you think they're gone? No, they exist. Do you think they're gone from energy? No, they didn't. What did they invest in? In renewable energy sources. I hope we have smart managers like that. And let us tell the miners the truth: in the perspective of several years we must completely change Polish energy. And that's a step in the opposite direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u240	Thank you, Senator. The senator folds... [[Mia, did you make those corrections?]] [[Ah, yes...]] Mr. Senator, you were supposed to make adjustments. [[Yes, sir, but...]] You're welcome. [[The discussion isn't over yet, I'd have made it. Thank you very much.]] I understand, okay. It's signed, right? [[Yes.]] Good. Thank you very much. And Professor Andrzej Stanisławek. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u241	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! Dear Izbo! I would like to comment on the speeches made by my colleagues, especially from the committee and from outside the committee. I disagree with Senator Augustine's statement that this bill will raise the price of energy. Mr. Senator, every country can only grow on the basis of energy, the cheaper this energy is, the more competitive we are on the market. I believe that in this act we want to generate this cheaper energy on the initiative of Poles. In general, I would like to say to the senators, especially the opposition, that we are trying to process laws in the committee, taking absolutely into account the voice of social organisations. The question was, did such opinions reach us? Two arrived: from the Polish Solar Energy Association and from the Chamber of Commerce of Polish Waterworks. The comments of the Consumer Federation have been largely included in this Act. It is not true that we cannot make changes to the bill. The senators who participated in the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation know that we have made a lot of changes in the Public Procurement Act. In this bill, what has been possible so far... And it is not true that we will not lean on the amendments tabled today. I'm sure we'll talk about that. I always say that even when it is an amendment of the opposition, if this amendment complements the law in the right way... Because every bill, you need to know, has politics in it. This one has politics, too. And I do not understand this criticism, but thank you for this criticism, because this criticism forces us to do a better job. With regard to these windmills, with which we are constantly fighting here in a sense, I would have such an economic example. If you are senators who would like wind power in Poland And it's known that she's not the best, they got from their wife every day, e.g. 3 apples, because we have overproduction of apples, every day they get 3 apples, or maybe 4 apples, maybe 5 apples, would you still consume them because they were just for dinner? How would you like them for dinner? But there wouldn't be apples for dinner. Wouldn't it be better if you didn't? Instead of apples, have juice? So apples are a wind power plant, and juice is a biogas plant. I'd rather have juice. And then this juice, instead of eating these three apples, I could drink at any time. So that in this law is a policy element, very important. What Senator Pekkis said about wind power plants... The main thing is that it's unstable energy that's ruining the network. We are not able to gather it, nor are we able to balance it. For us, for energy networks, it's a huge problem to balance a lot of power when the wind blows. And that should also be taken into account. And it is not that in this act we are supposed to fight Poles and Polish entrepreneurs. That's not true. The Act establishes a policy of clusters, biogas plants, but within stable electricity, one which is supplied if necessary. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this law is good because it reflects the thinking of the current government and the ruling majority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u242	Thank you, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj will speak again. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear guests! Professor, thank you for your declaration of leaning on these amendments. I hope that you will consider whether it would be worthwhile to make amendments that do not overturn this law, but improve it a little. The last sentence you said, Professor, that the bill presented is good because it is presented by the current government... Well, I'm sorry, Professor, I usually agree with the professors, but... I don't want to comment on it, but it's hard to argue that the bill is good, to accept the fact that it's being presented by the government. Firstly, it is presented by a group of Members with the government. Secondly, precisely because it is such a law, we should work longer on it, discuss it, argue. Let me remind you once again, Professor, that 4 or 5 years of work on the previous law continued. I think it's been too long, but there's been so many adjustments... The bill was almost ready, but again and again and again... Now we have a complete reversal: no consultation, no... I meet with various kinds of organizations that operate in this sphere, I meet with small companies that work in this industry. They may not be as smart as our current government, but they have a lot of reservations about the rules that you propose in this law. And two more words about the woodworking industry. It's not a good solution that a surplus of wood mass, which we cannot use for something else, is going to burn, but if there are no other solutions in terms of the possibility of reducing the price, reducing imports... Let me remind you that we import over $4 million... It's probably high-quality wood, I don't know the structure. Maybe it's worth thinking about. Talking about the fact that there's nothing to do with it, so you have to burn the wood, and yet offer financial support for it, that's a state policy leading nowhere. I would like to say that the wood mass, as far as Poland is concerned, should be particularly protected in terms of price, maximum use for production, from panels to solid wood, etc. And in the end, when there's really nothing to do with it... Well, let's just burn it if it's really gonna go to waste. But to pay for it? I would've warned you about that. If you can burn something, even in an energy furnace, and still get a grant for it, then, ladies and gentlemen, you know that... When the green certificates worked, which was in my opinion the result of the lack of good discernment of the previous ruling crew... Professor Gula, during the debate on why co-incinerating should be abandoned, said that this is technologically harmful. I'm quoting here, I'm not saying I am. There are professionals here who are sure to refer to this. Next: for environmental reasons, this is questionable. If we still provide financial support for this, it is bad financial support for the state We should support the development of new technologies, not the burning of wood in a boiler. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a return to... I don't want to use the word medieval because I know it annoys you, but it does. I would ask you to consider supporting these amendments. I would also like to say that the whole woodworking industry, ladies and gentlemen, employs 14% people working in the Polish economy. That's 1.7%. participation in gross domestic product. Burning it and subsidizing it is the wrong thing to do. And finally, the last thing about money. In the previous hand, when co-incineration was subsidised, it was paid, ladies and gentlemen I'm addressing the Minister here... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes.]] That's the last sentence. Last sentence, Mrs. Marshal. [[And I have to take your vote.]] Last sentence A word of honor. [[Good. One sentence.]] $7.4 billion was spent on co-incinerating support. And co-incineration is in the European Union's proceedings, that is one thing, but it has also been considered the least effective support for the whole process in terms of environmental support, which is why I respect and I ask you not to go this way... [[Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator!]] Incineration, co-incineration, we donate $2 billion a year. That's all it takes to recapitalise the coal industry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u244	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. And to speak, please, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Last week we had wind power here, now we have renewable energy at all. I did not take part in this discussion and I do not feel like a specialist here, but I listened gladly to the arguments of all parties, as well as read various kinds of studies to develop an opinion. And if I'm taking the floor now, it's because I'm trying to put some logic into some arguments. Here before me and before Senator Czarnobaj you performed Senator Stanisławek and talked about wind energy that it has flaws. I've heard of such flaws before, that these windmills are just loud and therefore disturb the peace, and that's why we have to do something about it. And I was a little surprised that the rule that existed in the previous law and which talked about the limit allowed for decibels, and which seemed to me to be a logical provision, was changed to a rule that talks about distance. Although at the same time it was said that the windmills are technologically different, there are old windmills equipped with used turbines, which are louder, etc., etc. And now Senator Stanisławek has added another argument to this, namely that there is a problem with the network. There's a problem with the surplus being disposed of somehow, because you can't store it. But knowing that's what's going on with the windmills, it's not known since today. And in many countries where wind energy is a significant source of energy, it is also known. So this problem is somehow solved. It's one thing. And case number two. Do these restrictions that have been imposed on windmills and which are currently being applied in different ways to renewable energy eliminate the problem? Because what was stated in the previous bill? Firstly, that these windmills must be at a greater distance, which necessarily means that less windmills will be built, because there will be fewer places that will meet the stated conditions. Secondly, they were actually charged several times higher tax, because they included not only the foundation and pillar, but also the entire interior, turbine, equipment, etc., etc. So it's typically restrictive. In fact, we are hindering the formation of these windmills, with all these consequences concerning the cessation of production and activity, and the release of people, etc. But I'm leaving this aside now. I'm interested, Mr. Senator, whether windmills will continue to be made after such decisions, only in a smaller number. And that problem you were talking about, which is what to do with the excess energy, etc., etc., will still exist. In fact, if you were to accept your argument, you'd have to give up... [[Up to 15%...]] No, no, you'd have to quit at all... [[Up to 15%.]] No, no, there's always gonna be a problem. There will always be a problem, so... we notabene up to 15%. Far away, let's be honest. Right? And unfortunately, in all these actions at such a rapid pace, without sufficient consultation... I was able to understand that. The Anti-Terrorism Act must be adopted quickly because we have World Youth Days and therefore we cannot afford to delay. But why on renewable energy, which is, I would say, a nodal, so important topic that absorbs Europe, the world... Why are decisions taken within a few weeks without proper consultation? I can only answer this question in one way, namely that the government is under very strong pressure, I would say, other factors. What factors? Yeah, well, you know what it is. Of course, the carbon lobby. Maybe this is the right strategy, maybe this is how it should be, maybe for many years you're able to show how we're going to generate this energy with coal, a note bene, more expensive and more expensive. But you didn't show anything like that. You just hit in one direction and loss, damage can be very difficult to reverse.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u246	Thank you, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear Senator, when it comes to the solution that you asked about the windmill's energy, one such good solution is the use of a pump-top power plant. This is currently one of the few possible forms of accumulation, storage of very large amounts of energy. This is because there are two tanks, the bottom and the top. The moment we have too much energy, we pump from the bottom tank to the top, and the moment we need energy, we drain the water down through the turbines. [[Voice from the room: Żarnowiec.]] Yes, you're right, Senator, the biggest Polish installation of this type is Żarnowiec. The second installation is the Splash-War. The investment costs of such structures, which are very useful and very useful to the state, have been so high that they have not been built for decades. A fantastic idea is the possibility of using closed mines to build this type of installation. There is a glass with a diameter of 6 to 9 m with a very large fall. And that's why we're building a tank downstairs, we've got almost natural tanks upstairs, we've got settlers, and that's how they work as a support for the energy system, which is to accumulate energy. But all of these are actions that must have one basic assumption - we have to provide our society, according to the demand it makes, with the relatively cheapest energy. Doesn't mean it's the cheapest. Because even coal energy... Anyone who tracks its development in Poland over the last 20 years will notice that we have made enormous efforts to build both dust extraction systems and desulfurization systems. Wet desulfurization reactors are quite complex and, above all, very expensive in construction and use installations that improve the quality of our environment. At the same time, and here I will move a little away from this thread. All those forms that are considered clean, e.g. photovoltaic cells... Somehow, in a strange way, no one talks about what amounts of mercury and cadmium compounds are directly used in their production, and they are consumed in their production. No one talks or very rarely talks about the classic light bulb, which was of course energy-intensive, I agree with that without a doubt. No one's talking about the fact that there's a lot more mercury compounds in this clean, ecological fluorescent lighthouse than there was in the classic light bulb. Agree that the energy effect on us In quotation marks It's okay. It's okay. It's We took the liberty of doing this. But let's not kid ourselves. The fact that Germany, which was a global tycoon in the construction of photovoltaic cells several years ago, lost this position in favour of China also results from the fact that Germany has much more restrictive provisions on mercury and cadmium compounds These are the two very harmful compounds in the production of photovoltaic cells. That just didn't allow for clean, expensive technology. That's why they're losing to China. China does not care much about these issues. They have such potential, such a desire to grow, that the environment has secondary value there. We operate in this world, a very complex world, trying to generate the energy that we offer to our society as cheaply as possible. Because our society isn't that wealthy yet. Germany... You asked about the costs. Germany has invested EUR 80 billion in windmills in the period of the biggest wind energy growth, over 4 years and this is the information available on the pages of the windmills. EUR 80 billion. This is money that the largest or almost largest European economy can afford. We don't have any money for that. Of course... I already explained why the Germans went this way and how much they saw in car batteries, which were supposed to be so common that they could be treated as a large energy battery. It is precisely the lack of modern-day high-performance unit batteries that make the economy in question undeveloped. There's still a basic issue. Here, it has been said many times not true that pure energy is cheaper. No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, in every major study on energy costs in Poland, it is clear: the cheapest energy is energy from brown coal. The second cost is hard coal energy. Much, much further away are all other forms. Co-incineration. I'd like to say a few more words about that. We have observed in recent years such experiments, that for boilers, whether scaffold or fluid, boilers for burning fuel of very specific quality... Boilers are constructed in such a way that during their construction it is estimated what fuel will be burned, what the calories of this fuel is and how much energy it will give. And under such a specific demand, the boilers were constructed. Various additions were added to such boilers. He was among others. The idea of bringing and throwing coconut shells into the boiler. The problem is, these shells, instead of burning, exploded. And this and other ideas of this kind caused exactly what you said about the senator: technological problems with installations. The treatment of a plant designed to burn one kind of fuel, a given caloricity, a fuel of much higher caloricity, precisely these shells, caused that instead of burning, we had an explosion there. The explosion caused damage to the infrastructure. Energy, including energy from renewable sources... Renewable sources are, so to speak, our pursuit of a clean environment. But we cannot in the society we are living in now, in a society that is still at the stage of the investigation to the level of these largest societies, the richer economically, see all of this in isolation from the cost of generating electricity. And last but not least, there's nothing about equipment efficiency. The coal plant is more than 40% efficient. The latest photovoltaic cells are up to a dozen percent efficiency. Wind power plants are 20% efficiency. And that's what I'm talking about, the highest ceilings. A pumping peak power plant that interacts with a wind power plant is an efficiency of thirty-several percent. These are all the times of fitness that have nothing to do with what we have today. And I personally believe that because Poland is, you can say, laid at the borders, with the outside, nuclear power plants and in the event of any failure, we will have a problem. 'Cause even though it's not our problem, we're gonna feel its effects... I am convinced that our future should be based on a nuclear power plant. It's just, I think, a requirement of history. If only this atomic energy... Here maybe I'll go too far, but that's what I think. I have already been asked this during the report of the committee meeting. If nuclear energy were to interact with military use, nuclear nuclear technology, we would have far less problems and fears than we have today, about our future as a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn wishes to speak again. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u249	Mr. Senator, I'm a supporter of nuclear energy, too, but with this military use, you're really busy, you forgot that we signed a non-proliferation agreement... [[Voice from the room: You didn't understand...]] Anyway, I'd like to say a few words about money, because I think they're out there somewhere in the background of all those decisions. I don't know if we're doing the math right. Renewable energy, renewable energy, really costs money. It's been counted, it's 40 gr per kilo. But has it been calculated how much it costs us to maintain coal energy? How much is it? Well, ladies and gentlemen, coal prices have fallen dramatically by almost 50%. Most of our energy is based on coal. Did you feel it in your pockets? Did any of the Poles feel this? No! Why? And that's because the problems of the mines have been transferred to the energy industry. She's the one who bought the coals at an even higher price and has to use them first, so the price is still high and remains high. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really are to develop renewable energy sources, we must remember the transmission costs. These are often chimeric sources, agree, and require really big changes in networks. But if the power grids are involved, so to speak, sticking to this language, saving mining, then unfortunately there will be no money to modernise them. There will be no money to upgrade energy. And that's where you need it actually. Yes, Mr. Senator, indeed billions, and this network must also be adapted to RES. And that's where the wheel just closes, you can say. Polish energy is not healthy. In my opinion, Polish energy is not going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u250	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Marek Borowski, for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have listened with great appreciation to the statements of Senator Pekkis, who has really great knowledge in this area, and I would like to be further educated, but I have also heard other statements and read other statements. We are all aware that this is a very extensive and complex subject. And so I will repeat my question. I can even agree with Senator Pekkis that there are other arguments and that we would really have to lean over them, but once again I ask the question: what factors cause these laws to have two laws concerning wind and renewable energy to be dealt with in this way and in this way? It's not like you can understand that. This can't be a parliamentary project. This must be a government project, a government project consulted, with opinions, including legislative opinions, addressed to the Sejm, or maybe earlier public hearings, or maybe the Sejm will be doing public hearings... There must be a wide debate here because you're changing vectors. A change in vectors It's a big deal, because it's a change for years, maybe for decades. And it's just stuff like that. cannot be carried out in this way. Now, of course, a number of amendments have been tabled, which, even if you want to lean over them, you have five minutes to decide. This is the greatest sin that this kind of law is being dealt with in such a way, when there is really no reason to rush into it so much. And unfortunately, I am directing this to the majority of the Senate, because most of them will decide here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, on this matter you are simply treated instrumentally. The Senate is lowering its own rank. 'Cause you really have to say clearly, no, that way it doesn't. Unfortunately, it is what it is. To be honest, I'd like to include, for example. your arguments and I would even like to enter into a dispute with the fierce supporters of renewable energy and to point out that they do not take into account certain arguments. It's just that they're always gonna say, well, yeah, but it looks completely different, and we couldn't even put it up, and there was no discussion about it. After all, it is not possible to take for a good coin the fact that several organizations appear at the committee meeting in the Sejm, have half an hour and can say something, and at the senate committee meeting there will also be 2, 3 organisations and they will say something. This is an appearance of debate on such an important issue. I stress by leaving the case on the side at the moment, because the case is really complex and some arguments can be assumed that when this is such a mode, it is simply difficult to vote for such a law, because the risk is too great. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u252	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several issues were raised here by colleagues from the Civic Platform. As far as all these substantive issues are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we never, as Law and Justice and the Government of Law and Justice, hide that, because of the opportunities we have, this reality that is, we believe that coal energy must be a fundamental element that provides energy. And that's what my colleagues have been talking about here, including Senator Pekkis. Carbon energy is one of the cheapest forms of energy acquisition. Senator Augustine himself said that the prices of coal are falling very strongly in the world markets. Why is the price of energy in Poland not falling in proportion to the fall in these prices? Well, the answer is very simple: our energy industry is currently making very serious, multi-billion-dollar investments. After all, not so long ago we started building a new power block in Opole, Enea is building a building block in Kozienice. Anywhere, you could say, locals, local governments demanded these power blocks. It's still rich, isn't it? If we do not make these investments in energy today, in a few years there will be a problem with energy in summer at the peak of demand. And only a stable source of energy, which is carbon energy, is able to provide that. Of course, another stable source of energy is nuclear energy, but I don't want to be mean anymore... Well, you ruled for eight years and some big ones, to put it mildly, there were no effects on the implementation of the first nuclear power plant. It's kind of one thing. We, of course, will support biogas plants very strongly under this law, as Professor Stanisławek said, because here we have some potential of Polish capital. This is also support for local governments and Polish agriculture. We need to reach 15% by 2020 And I'm sure the RES will be supported, although they can be... Within RES, we have different forms of energy acquisition. And that's one aspect. And the second aspect that you have raised here is such a very political aspect, namely that the mode of work is so fast, unprecedented that we do not accept amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, this mode of work, the fact that there are parliamentary projects, is in line with the rules of law. And this is one of the very often used legislative paths. It is not that law and justice rule now, and suddenly such a legislative path is applied. Because it was also used in previous terms when you ruled. It is not true that the Law and Justice are marginalized here or that we, as Senators of Law and Justice, are marginalizing ourselves. 'Cause you could really trace it. I don't have much time. In how many laws we have amended. These were amendments by both the government and the Senators of Law and Justice and the Senators of the Platform, were committee amendments, amendments signed together by the Senators of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform. 'Cause there's no other club here. And of course, there are also laws that are not subject to amendments. As Professor Stanisławek said, every bill is the implementation of some vision, some policy that we want to implement through this law. And correct corrections... Sometimes, too, I say, we're under some kind of time pressure. In a moment, we will be debating another point where we also need to implement very quickly, implement the European Parliament directive. Sometimes we get caught up in deadlines. It's all true. We cannot always implement these amendments. But I certainly do not agree with this statement that our House is marginalized. Because we have made many amendments and they have simply improved the legislative process. And what do you think you're doing here? Somewhere in the Senate there is such statistics that the majority, the vast majority of our amendments, I think about 90%, hoping so quickly, the Sejm accepts. Which means they're right and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, here again was the proposal to reject the law in its entirety. I'm already... There was an anti-terrorism bill about which there was also an attempt to reject it in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder when you will finally support some law of law and justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u254	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Marian the Spokesperson made his speech in the debate for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Waldemar Bonkowski, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Przemysław Terminski, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Władysław Komarnicki. The discussion is closed. Would any of your government representatives like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 194 and the report of the Commission In print No 194 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But please be quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 14 June at a joint meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration unanimously approved the Act amending the Act on Supporting the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a government project. The government represented Minister Streżyńska, Minister of Digitization at the meeting. Representatives of the Office for Electronic Communications were also present. This is an amendment to the 2010 Act, which mainly implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in order to facilitate the creation of broadband networks. We are a little late because the deadline for the adoption of this law was 1 January 2016. In a few days, it will be time for legal provisions to be put on the market that we need to introduce. None of the senators participated in the discussion. The Legislative Office has tabled 5 proposals for amendments, which were intended to ensure that I said order and did not change the content of the rules. The Ministry recommended not to accept them. Well, we're chasing time, if you say so. As I said, unanimously, this law was unanimously supported, a proposal for a law was adopted without amendment. Finally, I would like to say that the Legislative Bureau commended the Ministry because it considered that this law, despite these minor technical slips, was very well prepared legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u256	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Today we have a representative of the Ministry of Digital Affairs, Secretary of State in the Ministry, Minister Witold Kołodziejski. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Witold Kołodziejski: If there are no questions, then it will not be necessary.]] Would any of your senators like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 204 and the report of the Commission In print No 204 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Health Commission a bill amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. The Act was examined at a meeting of the Health Committee on 13 June. The Commission asks that the law be adopted without amendment. Mrs Marshal, High Senate, the bill is quite extensive, so I will concentrate on the essential content of this law. This law is called the Cleaning Act, which is a law that affects various aspects of the healing activity. This law introduces amendments relating to the occurrence of the so-called. net losses, that is, what we used to call a negative financial result, an independent public health care facility, in short called SPOZ. The purpose of this change is that... the previous solution was of little effectiveness. Therefore, the change will be such that the net loss, as defined in Article. Paragraph 56 Point 2 (1) of that law will be covered by an establishment fund which will be reduced by that net loss. If the bet fund is not sufficient to cover that net loss, the entity creating the bet will be obliged to cover the remaining part of that loss, but not more than the amount resulting from the net loss and depreciation costs. The deadline for covering this loss will be 9 months from the expiry of the deadline for the approval of the accounts of the public health establishment itself. The extension of this deadline to 9 months will allow the planning of funds to cover net losses in the budgets of the competent authorities, i.e. entities forming the SPOZ. In order to improve this process, apart from the fact that this loss has to be covered... The Act obliges the manager of a self-employed public health establishment within 3 months of the expiry of the deadline for approval of the financial statements, i.e. until 30 September, to draw up a resolution programme for a period of not more than 3 years. The corrective programme must gain acceptance of the entity forming the SPOZ. The introduction of an obligation to draw up and implement a resolution programme strengthens the responsibility of the healthcare provider's manager for its financial results and will contribute to the improvement of a rational financial economy. The mere transfer of funds is almost insufficient, as we can only cover this net loss and not eliminate the cause of this loss. The second possible action of the entity that creates, apart from covering the loss of the SPOZ, is unfortunately the liquidation of the medicinal entity, of course, when this loss is not covered. This law changes what was in the previous, i.e. the solution is deleted, that if we do not cover the losses, then the plant will be converted into the so-called. the partnership. We are back to previous solutions that were before 2011. According to the Minister's presentation at the meeting of the Health Committee, the level of commitments for 2015 amounted to nearly PLN 11 billion and the level of commitments due was approximately PLN 2 billion. At the same time, we know that more than 70% The SPOZ regulated its obligations on a timely basis and did not show any liabilities due. The analysis of the financial results indicated that over 60% in 2012 and 2014 The SPOZ generated net profits. Thus, the financial situation of the SPOZ varies and I dare say that this is related to the condition of the management of the SPOZ. The next amendment introduced by this law is the prohibition on the disposal of shares or shares in companies of the Treasury or local government units if, as a result of their disposal, these entities lose a majority holding or shares. This regulation allows a public entity, i.e. a local government unit or State Treasury, to dispose of shares or shares of its companies provided that the nominal value of their shares or shares is not less than 51% the share capital of the company and that these objects will have the direct majority of the votes at the shareholders' meeting or at the general meeting. This solution will prevent the transfer of shares or shares of capital companies of the State Treasury or local government units carrying out medical activities. Having a majority stake or shares and controlling the company's organs will give public entities a decisive influence on the functioning of medicinal products, which is necessary to carry out the tasks of health security, quality and availability of health services under Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In view of these conditions, the Act restricts the ownership of shares or shares of capital companies of the State Treasury or local government units carrying out medical activities, but this limitation does not affect the substance of their ownership, as they may continue to exercise their right in this respect, up to 49%. Capital companies carrying out medicinal activities are not created to benefit from the ownership of their shares or shares, but to provide the necessary health benefits. The measures taken before the date of entry into force of the Act aimed at the disposal of shares or shares of companies of the State Treasury and local government units will be subject to the existing provisions and therefore the Act does not infringe the so-called provisions. the interests in progress and thereby do not confer on the right of ownership under Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The Act will also allow the possibility to dispose of shares or shares of a company operating in the field of health care in favour of capital companies, to which the State Treasury has control. This solution aims to enable the State Treasury which was considered by the Minister of Treasury to include State Treasury companies providing health care to an entity in which the State Treasury's share in the share capital was less than 51%. The next amendment introduced by the Act is the principle of non-payment of dividends in capital companies in which the Treasury, local government unit or medical university has more than 51% shares or shares. It is proposed that no dividend should be paid in these entities, but that, in view of the protection of acquired rights, the protection of ownership and equity in respect of the law, this regulation would not apply to capital companies where, at the date of entry into force of the law, those entities did not have 100% of the shares or shares. This regulation will apply for the first time after the approval of the financial statements for the first financial year started after the date of entry into force of that law. Another regulation introduced by this law is the creation of tools for the supervision of an entity forming the independent public ZOZ. This is quite important regulation because the law requires the manager of the entity or the manager of the SP of the ZOZ to draw up a report on the economic and financial situation of the SP of the ZOZ. Such a report shall be transmitted to the formation entity by 31 May each year. The basis for the report for the previous financial year will be a model which will be prepared by the Minister of Health in agreement with the Minister of Finance. This report will describe the detailed economic and financial situation and will be based on an assessment of this situation. It will have to be submitted to the authority that runs the SPOZ. In our view, these measures will reduce the level of sovereign debt of public health establishments. Another option introduced by this law is the definition of the control procedure carried out by the voivodship in the event of the disposal by the provider of medicinal products, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses or medical devices, contrary to the prohibition under the Act of 6 September 2001 on pharmaceutical law. In general, the point is that the authority that should control this has not had the right instruments to do so, there was no regulation to determine the mode of such control. It is therefore proposed to clarify this by referring to the provisions of the Article. 111 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 112. Another amendment is to clarify the rules on the conduct of controls on medicinal products. The aim of this amendment is to harmonise the rules governing the scope of the control activities carried out by the Minister of Health and by the bodies to which the Minister of Health has commissioned such control, e.g. By the voivode. Another amendment, which is enshrined in this Act, concerns the transfer of the property of a public health establishment to a free use. As so far, the creator will be able to transfer free use to the independent public ZOZ... He will be able to transfer these properties to his property or under another legal title. Regardless of the way in which the property is transferred in accordance with the proposed provision, the SPOZ will manage this property. This is quite important because the transfer of buildings or land results in an increase in the initial fund and a greater liquidity of the SPOZ. The next regulation contained in this law introduces principles of cooperation between medical agents and the police as part of the search for missing persons. And here's two lines. First, the obligation for medical professionals to notify the police of the fact that patients are admitted to the hospital without providing data that could identify the person concerned. Secondly, the obligation for operators to provide information on the admission of a missing person within the meaning of the provisions of the Police Act. The obligation to inform the police of the admission of a patient would apply to patients with minors with whom a statutory representative cannot be contacted and patients whose identity cannot be established or confirmed on the basis of documents. Potentially, they could be missing persons. On the other hand, it would not be justified to notify if an unconscious person or a minor whose identity is known has been transferred to a hospital, e.g. from a work establishment, from a school or from another hospital And it is possible to communicate with her loved ones. The procedure for notifying the police will apply only to information that such a person is, without giving other data, i.e. growth, weight, gender, specific characteristics and suspected age. In order to improve the mode of transmission to the police of these data, the police are required to provide a telephone, fax or e-mail number so that in each hospital such an address exists and does not need to be searched and made available to the hospital every time. Another regulation introduced by this law is the terminology change, i.e. the replacement of the term "medical establishment' and the harmonisation of the terminology by replacing the term "negative financial result' with the term "net loss'. This project provides that a hospital, an infirmary, a sanatorium, a hospice, a care and medical facility is now called a medical facility. In the opinion of the designer, this is an unambiguous concept associated with medicinal activities. The term "Company' for the definition of a set of assets by which a medicinal entity carries out a specific type of medicinal activity is associated with a production company. The introduction of a net loss instead of a negative financial result is also a alignment of the terminology of the law with the terminology that is valid in accounting and accounting regulations. Another amendment introduced by this law is the waiver of the obligation to have medical accident insurance. The introduction of this insurance was intended to protect the interests of patients who had to deal with the voivodship committees ruling on medical events. Then the hospital, if it was insured, could easily pay those compensations. However, life showed that last year, according to the Minister, only one hospital in Poland had such insurance. That is why we waive the obligation of such insurance, although this does not mean that a hospital or a healthcare provider is exempt from liability for a medical event. Another change is the introduction of the possibility for local authorities to finance healthcare services. This change is quite fundamental, because so far the local government unit could only give subsidies to the so-called "subsidiaries." a specific objective, including investment, for the purchase of medical equipment, for the training of medical staff and for the running of preventive programmes. The provisions introduced by this law make it possible to finance healthcare services provided by healthcare providers for which they are creators. This project provides for the possibility to finance the benefits guaranteed to the members of the local government. There are some restrictions that in a sense inhibit the externalisation of these funds, since first such funding must be provided to a medicinal entity which is the responsibility of the host body. Where this establishment does not provide such services, it will be possible to provide this money and this funding will be provided to the external entity. The aim of this solution is to enable individuals to secure the best possible access to healthcare for members of the local government. On the other hand, it should also contribute to reducing the generation of losses by medicinal products. However, so that there is no double funding, i.e. in parallel by the National Health Fund and the local government unit, the proposed law allows the financing by local government units of the benefits covered by the contract for the provision of health care services only to an extent exceeding the amount of the obligation laid down in the contract, i.e. so-called. over-limit benefits. In addition, the Act imposes an obligation for the provider to inform the provider of the medicinal activity . who has concluded a contract for the provision of health care services, a branch of the voivodship of the National Health Fund. It should be stressed that the amendment introduced by the law does not impose an obligation on local government units to finance the benefits guaranteed to members of their community, but grants such an opportunity. The proposed law therefore does not impose new obligations on local authorities and therefore does not grant them new financial resources for the implementation and financing of such benefits. At the same time, this possibility is without prejudice to public authorities' obligations under Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In order not to prejudice access rules under this Article, the proposed amendment provides for the possibility of financing the benefits guaranteed by the local government units over the amount of the National Health Fund's commitment to the provider concerned. Another change... Mrs. Marshal, there's quite a lot of that, so I'm going to try to summarize it pretty briefly, but there's still a few points ahead of me, so please be patient. The next amendment allows the possibility to transfer the responsibilities and powers of an entity setting up an independent public health establishment between operators. This is the change that allows the local government unit to transfer its so-called. SPOZ another local government unit. E.g. transfer of SPZOZ, which is currently under the jurisdiction of the county, to the Marshal of the voivodship. This is aimed at improving activity, focusing it in one place, in one hand. This is, of course, only an opportunity, not a necessity. Another regulation allows for the creation of independent public health establishments. Until now, the bill has not provided for this. At the moment, the project assumes that the State Treasury represented by a minister, a central government authority or a voivode A local government unit and a public medical university may set up a separate health care facility. Further, the Act introduces a number of simplifications, among others. exempts managers of medicinal entities from the obligation to provide the State Labour Inspection and the competent authorities of the medical profession with information on the number of persons who pursue a medical profession under civil law agreements or as a professional practice with which the medicinal entity has concluded a civil law agreement. There's still a few minor changes, but... [[Mr. Senator, you've been reporting for over 20 minutes, so maybe...]] But it's a bill, Mrs. Marshal. I'm almost done. [[I do.]] Two more minutes and I'll be done. The Act introduces the principle that a contest for the post of deputy manager in a non-business medical entity is carried out by the head of that entity, and not, so far, by the formation entity. Mrs. Marshal, if you'll excuse me, this is the last point. The Act replaces an optional statutory authorisation for the Minister responsible for Health to issue standards of medical procedure with an authorisation to issue organisational standards. This was advocated by the professional government of doctors. He doesn't think he's a minister, but it's these medical organizations that are entitled to create medical standards. That's it, Marshal. I can finish. I ask the Senate to adopt this law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Did you at the committee's meeting analyse how many local hospitals would be affected by the change in the proceedings in the event of a net loss? The ministers here often said that they had knowledge of the size of the debt. I understand that it is necessary to determine what hospitals are, so to speak, with loss; it is certainly most hospitals in Poland. Did you simulate how many self-governments because of the lack of your own resources... Because the districts that most often manage hospitals are the weakest unit of local government. How many hospitals are we gonna have to close? Was such an analysis of the potential effects done and presented to the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u260	Thank you very much. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u261	The answer may be short, Mr. Senator. Unfortunately, this was not analysed during the committee's work. The senator's talking about liquidation, about compensation. This isn't new. This compensation of losses, which we now call net loss, and previously negative financial result, still rested on the host body. We're not bringing in anything new, Senator. [[Thank you very much...]] Mr. Senator, if I may, I would add that this is a return to the previous rule with the deletion of the possibility of turning into a company. Nothing else has happened here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u262	Thank you. And Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I don't get it either. If we say that a medical entity operating in the form of a company, if it has to retain the value of shares and shares above 50%, it must have at least 51% ... And now, if such an entity bears a net loss, the local government is obliged to cover That's what you were talking about. For a period of 9 months, this loss. And if he doesn't cover that loss, then we're dealing with the liquidation of the SP of the ZOZ. And now my question is this. We know that when it comes to hospitals, about the SP ZOZ, it's generally Maybe not most, but certainly a large part of the hospitals are in debt. Some hospitals are heavily indebted. And now there's a question. If you have to decide to liquidate, and this is going to be a hospital, which is, for example, In some big county... I could list examples of cities where the county council is owned or even voivodship local government, because former hospitals in the former voivodships are mostly hospitals, the subject of which is the voivodship local government. There are cases. And now, if that loss isn't covered by the government The government must generate this money here. This will be terminated. Now I have the question: how does this apply to the map of health needs? Because there are maps of health needs, so that, of course, the National Health Fund will contract those services that are necessary in a given area, in a given area. And here at the moment, without any kind of connection to it, there would be a situation that these possibilities of hospital operations would end... What's next in this situation? Here I can give you an example of a voivodship hospital, one or the other, which is in danger of such a situation. How's that for a health map? That's the first question. I'm gonna ask you another question right away. It's about giving up medical accident insurance. They're at the voivodeship with these medical court boards. That's what I'm asking you. As far as these committees are concerned, were they mentioned, are they expected to remain, or will they be liquidated? And the third question... It's about the health committees. That's the third question you ever asked me about working with the police. I just looked at the materials to see what the hospital's cooperation with the police was like. Where did it come from that in situations where you said there was no personal data, the medical examiner had to notify the designated police unit within four hours and otherwise within eight hours? Well, I don't really understand what that came from, and what is the need for such sudden action if someone's in the hospital. Why do you have to order a police unit in such a short time? I think it's going to be very difficult. Was there any discussion about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u264	You're welcome, Senator. I ask that the questions asked be limited to 1 minute in accordance with the regulations. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll start at the end. The deadline for notifying the police was not discussed at the committee meeting. But I don't think it's such an exorbitant time to not be able to call the police department and tell them that this particular patient is in the hospital. As far as medical events are concerned, here, Senator, nothing changes. The hospital will still have to withdraw such money if such an event is recognised. We only delete the provision that required hospitals to cover such events, and this is because unfortunately in our insurance market only one entity was actually willing to provide such insurance, and the amounts required very horrendous and hospitals, unfortunately, did not want to bear such costs. Therefore, as I say, last year only one hospital in Poland had such insurance. So this case was pure fiction. Now there's the question of the first question. Once again, nothing changes here, so far the lead organ has had to cover the loss and we have nothing here. We're not introducing a new one. But what we're saying is that the host organ... Very often after the local elections in small resorts, in the counties it happened that the headmaster of the hospital was someone who was sort of recognized as... This position of director of the SPOZ in a given county was like political spoil. So she got it as if it were a reward for the formation that won the municipal elections in a given county. But not always this person was competent and able to cope with the tasks they faced. Therefore, this law introduces that if there is a loss, a financial plan will have to be drawn up and at the same time show how such a loss will be avoided in the future, i.e. a corrective programme will have to be shown. And now it often happened that the lead authority claimed that he didn't know that there was such a situation in the SPOZ, and he thought it was better. At the moment, the Ministry has already prepared a draft regulation in which this report will be defined, very harmonised. And I think we're going to avoid virtual accounting and situations like that when the county council meetings show that the hospital is supposed to be on the plus side, and it's actually a debt hospital. I can only say this on the example of my district and hospital: when a new director was appointed after the general elections, he employed over 100 people during the year and generated a loss of over PLN 10 million, and the authority claimed that he had not seen anything. This is what we want to avoid, and we want it to be clear and transparent and so that the lead authority can intervene in due course. 'Cause I think that's when a manager who can't handle it changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u266	Thank you, Senator. And there you go, Senator Rafał the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u267	Mr. Senator, regarding the loss and threat of hospital liquidation, my fellow senators have criticised a restrictive record that has been in force for eight years. We're liberalizing it now, because we're removing the obligation to turn the hospital into a company. Two questions from one area. The Influential Portal of Health Policy calls this law the withdrawal of commercialisation. Because I don't see records that would reverse commercialization. I have a question: are you familiar with any provisions that actually take the company back to the ZOZ and the private ZOZ back to the public? That's the first question. And because of the concerns of health managers, I ask: will the situation of private hospitals change after this bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u268	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. This resolution does not cover private hospitals. And what I said before: companies that are already there will be divisions on the basis of which they operate. This law only precludes the possibility that, in the case of net, financial loss, the establishment of the company should be the next step. With us, in this bill, it's not there, it's just immediate liquidation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u270	Thank you very much. You're asking the senator... [[So we're going back to... sorry.]] ...Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u271	The temptation to transfer some of the medical costs to local governments was no power. Now you're trying to do this by allowing local governments to finance the medical activities of hospitals. Why wasn't it done? That's what I wanted to ask your president. First of all, because the Act on the provision of public-funded health care states that the financing of health services mentioned there is an enumerative obligation of the State and is implemented through the National Health Fund. Now that's gonna change, I understand. We have constitutionally guaranteed equal access to medical services. That's the change you're changing. An example of my county: there is one county hospital, the city is not the district of Grodzki. In that case, if you run out of money from the NFZ and you're always short in October or November, the residents of the county capital will be paid, but those from the outskirts, from the poor municipalities No, no, no, no, I think that was a very serious argument for not doing it. This differentiates residents, differentiates access to healthcare, which is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u272	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I don't agree with you. Until now, some local governments have financed, for example. vaccination. Right? The ones who had the money guaranteed those vaccinations to their residents. [[But as part of prevention.]] Mr. Senator, but was this all about Poland? No. The fact that there are poor and rich local governments... That's what happened, and that's what's gonna happen. One can afford to build e.g. The bike path, and the others don't have any money for it. Some local authorities are capable of financing certain health benefits and others are not. That's the way it is, and it will be, Mr. Senator. It's an opportunity, it's not a compulsion, it's an obligation to finance health care. That's not a possibility so far. In my opinion, it doesn't violate the constitution. In a way, this will improve some of the situations observed in hospitals, shorten the queues. I repeat, this is not a duplication of benefits that are in a contract with a national fund. It's about the overtime money pool, which guarantees a national fund for residents, for example. the county concerned will continue to be the same. Thanks to the government's ability to finance certain medical procedures... I think it'll be for the benefit of the residents who live in the area. [[Some local governments...]] Some... Mr. Senator, but you know that not all local governments are the same. Well, I did, and I will. [[But the residents are the same.]] Okay. Their access to medical services is not restricted in any way. The contract with the national fund that the entity owns will be the same. Only after using the funds from this contract can the local government give money for overtime... [[But right now, it's...]] [[Guys, this isn't a discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u274	Senator, second question. [[I think I've already said...]] Yes? Good. Would any of you like to ask another question? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u275	One question, Mr. Senator. I mean, the handover... Self-governments are in big financial trouble. Education... As you all know very well, because a lot of local government officials are in the room, that's 50-60%. some voivodship budgets. Were there any signals that there were local governments? 'Cause I'm gonna talk mostly about local governments. As creators who would like to pass on e.g. Hospitals? Were there signals that there was such a self-government, so it was introduced into the bill? Signals that some local government wants to hand over the hospital to the county council, and this county with open hands wants to accept it, or vice versa. Was that the signal? Did you talk about it? Because if there's a recipe, then, I get it, it comes from something.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, of course, we didn't talk about this at the committee meeting, we didn't mention it, but as far as I know, this rule will mainly serve that purpose. If the local government, let's assume, the county has problems with a given hospital and communicates with the regional government, e.g. certain branches of this hospital will be transferred to the voivodship hospital, and these two PSOZ will be consolidated in one This, I think, will be only for the benefit of the residents who will continue to have guaranteed access to health care. But specific examples at the committee meeting were not discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u278	Thank you very much. More people willing to... Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u279	Senator, please tell me: if a local authority decides to buy out benefits for residents, how will people be selected for these benefits? Is there gonna be a round?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u280	I mean, the government is buying benefits for its residents. The procedure for the purchase of benefits will be the same as in the contract with the National Health Fund. I think it will already be up to the local government, to whom these funds and for whom they will be transferred, because he is the owner of these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u281	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have with us today the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Piotr Warczyński. Welcome, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to raise just one aspect of the bill, the one that I see is the most worrying of you. Namely, covering the negative financial result, which has so far been called, and if this law is adopted in this form, it will be a net loss in accordance with the current Accounting Act. The same negative financial result... In fact, the same provision has been in place since 1997 when the formation bodies were formed, and thus before the reform, before the transfer of hospitals and most medicinal entities to local government units. This entry was unchanged until 2011, when the first amendment was made. This change concerned the fact that, in the event that the healthcare provider and the local government unit did not cover this negative financial result, it was necessary to either close it down before this entry was still Or turn into a capital company. At the moment, the only change concerning this provision, as the rapporteur has already said, concerns the failure to convert into a company. Since then, i.e. since 1997, this provision has not resulted in the elimination of any medicinal product. I therefore believe that this provision will still not apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u283	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government, Minister, because they are already willing to ask questions about this item on the agenda. I don't know which one of you was first... Senator Augustine, and then Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u284	Minister, thank you for this, in fact, answer my question. Of course, I'm not in the business, so I might not have known. Thank you for the calming information. However, the Minister did not address the second point, which is why I am asking. I mean, is it really, giving you the opportunity to co-finance But there's really going to be a lot of social pressure when the contract's over, so it's such an illusory possibility, the more someone else is going to finance health benefits. However, we do not differentiate between residents in access to medical services during the period, here we agree, Mr President, when the contract ended, not earlier, but during the period when the contract ended? As a long-term self-government officer, I really have trouble imagining the situation that there will be 2 neighbouring municipalities and one commune could afford to finance something and the other could not. I'm also trying to imagine a game between hospitals, local governments and the NFZ. Up until now, the path was that when there were over-executions, it was addressed to the NFZ. [[Question, Senator, question.]] My question is this: isn't it going to be that the NFZ will feel relieved from funding overwork and will hold on for as long as the local government doesn't collapse and finance it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u285	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u286	Thank you. Mr. Senator, this is indeed a rather debatable record. But I would like to start by saying that there are records in practically every local government law regarding the fact that local government units are also responsible for health protection. And so far they have been able to finance three areas: firstly, apparatus, investments, renovations, secondly, training of employees of their medical entity, thirdly, health prevention programmes. And these programmes, even though they are called health prevention programmes, are de facto covering health benefits, i.e. financing health prevention programmes was nothing but health care funding. It seems that this possibility, which is now being offered, is a complement to what had already been done, of course with certain safeguards just so that there would be no double funding. We were talking about some inequality here. But this inequality looks exactly the same at the moment and functions because rich local governments can invest in their hospitals, which can be beautiful, new, equipped with excellent apparatus and with trained staff, because the local government could also finance training of these staff, but there are also local authorities that can't afford it. So this is a situation that just exists right now. I don't think the National Health Fund can play in any way, which is why... [[This is an experienced player.]] ...that we are not talking about life-saving benefits here, but only for such benefits and for such overperformances the National Health Fund pays to those who have these over-executions. [[Not necessarily, not only.]] [[Very...]] According to the law, Mr. Senator, that's the only way he can finance it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u287	Thank you, Minister. Please, you ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Until 2011, the changes that the Minister, the SPOZ, spoke about, had a net loss... My question is this: does the authority that founded the given SPOZ say this in a nutshell Did he have an obligation to finance the loss or not, according to the Minister? That's one thing. And second of all, I understand now that the government that decides to turn into a company... What rules do you think he'll be able to do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u289	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u290	Thank you very much. Those rules stay, they apply. There were two modes at the moment: a normal transformation into a company and a transformation into a company resulting from the fact that no negative... [[Senator Leszek Czarnobaj: The first ones stay.]] Yes. It stays complete, so that there are no... If someone makes such a decision, they can turn SPZOZ into a company, on the terms described in the Act, of course, i.e. they cannot set up a company that will have it uphill immediately. There are certain financial assumptions, so that it cannot leave this company with a debt large enough to make it difficult in any way to operate this company. Let us remember that covering the negative financial result, net loss, was done primarily by SP ZOZ itself. Because just because the hospital has a negative financial result, doesn't mean any such negative financial result has to cover the local government. We know that there are backup funds, we know that individuals have money, so only in critical situations does the local government have to cover this net loss. But I repeat, it hasn't happened so far. And in order to add background, I will say that only 1 hospital has been transformed into a company since 2011 on the basis of these provisions that do not cover the negative financial result. As we can see, the vast majority of those that have evolved have evolved on the basis of the rules currently and still in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u291	Thank you, Minister. Please, Senator Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u292	Minister, I would like to ask you about a case that may not be discussed here, namely standards and recommendations concerning medical procedures. So far there is a duality: in some areas it is developed by a national consultant, for example in pediatrics, and in other areas, for example in cardiology, gynecology, it is done by scientific associations. Gynecological, cardiological... There are different systems in the world, or state and designated institutions, such as national health institutes. In the U.S., such guidelines and recommendations are laid down or associations operating in particular fields of medicine. Are we now moving towards a society that will develop such standards? And how is the entire specialized surveillance system gonna fit into this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u293	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u294	Thank you very much. In fact, at the moment, scientific societies are mainly developing standards, guidelines and recommendations, depending on their rank. It is also the case that the Minister issues certain standards in the form of a legislative act, but these are not clinical standards. It would have to be marked right away. But these are organisational standards, procedural standards, standards of conduct, but not clinical ones. For example, such a set of many standards are precisely organized all basket regulations, those dozens of extensive basket regulations, where these standards are defined, precisely organizational standards, hardware standards, as regards staff, of course not about clinical requirements. And indeed, at the moment, we are working to ensure that, as is the case in other countries, these recommendations and guidelines have some power. So, in short, the point is that they think it is necessary to proceed in terms of clinical behaviour, but with the possibility of certain derogations that need to be justified. It is necessary to justify a different course of action. Because it's known that... some of the state is doctors and you know that such situations aren't uncommon at all. In turn, if standards were fixed in law, then any such derogation would not be possible, then any derogation would also be a crime, in short. I don't know any country in the world that regulates clinical standards in the form of law. It is a matter of ordering them in such a way that one institution does not develop them as much as it ensures that they are up to date and that they are created under uniform procedures. And I would like to remind you that such procedures are, moreover, developed by the Council of Europe, and these are procedures for developing clinical standards. At the moment, there's no decision on which unit it is. Three versions are considered: the first is that it will be the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, the second is the Quality Monitoring Centre in Cracow, and the third is perhaps the medical self-government. In my opinion, this should be the Quality Monitoring Centre in Krakow, which runs the whole accreditation system, but in the future it dealt with certain standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u295	Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I only use the legal opinion that we have received, I am not a member of the Health Committee. That's why I still have a question to calm down. Minister, have these changes in the Act on Medical Activity been consulted e.g. with the Association of Polish Voivodships, the Union of Polish Districts? With the association of municipalities it may not be necessary, because as far as hospitals are concerned, they generally... although actually such cases also happen. Were they consulted, and if they were, what was the opinion of these unions regarding these changes? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: Mr. Senator, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u297	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u298	Mr. Senator, this project has been consulted practically since December last year. First, he was consulted as a basis for the bill with a monthly deadline, later he was consulted as a draft of a specific law. Of course, like any project, it must be assessed by the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. Of course, there were also comments from all the actors you mentioned during the consultation, and these were separate comments. But I think the most important thing is the joint committee. She, in relation to this provision that you're thinking about, issued a negative position. As for the other aspects, this position was positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u299	Thank you, Minister. And there you go, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about this bill. But first of all, I am very happy that this bill is finally there because we have heard a lot that wild privatisation of health care units will be hindered. My question concerns the number of entities, namely hospitals, which have been privatized under the current rules. It's probably the department's data that owns and monitors it. How many units are there? What's more, I'd like to know... Because there are also entities which, after commercialization, remained in the control of the local government as self-government companies, or at least with a majority control package. And now I have a question: how many of these hospitals have been privatized, de facto turned into private hands? That's the first question. And my second question. Because the conversion of hospitals is not, so to speak, a task that is being carried out quite quickly Is the Ministry in possession of information on how many more individuals could be privatised if this law had not entered into force? What's the number of units? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u301	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u302	The second question will be a bit of a problem, because of course we do not have such accurate data. This data is only available when the resolution of the local government unit is adopted. And if you're discussing them, all we know from the media is that you're discussing them. It is at the time of the resolution that we know that these are the intentions, because it goes to the voivodship, is evaluated by the voivodship, and from the voivodships we collect all information about transformations. Today we have to look at the whole period since 1999, because the first transformation was in 1999. I would like to remind you that at that time it was a very different process under the Law on health care establishments than at the moment, because the hospital had to be wound up in order for the company to be established. And the local government unit took over all the liabilities of such a decommissioned SPOZ. Since 1999, 191 hospitals have been transformed, a large majority on the basis of the Law on health care establishments, because, on the basis of the Act on medicinal activities, which can already be said to have civilised this process, 66 hospitals have been transformed. In all these hospitals in the vast majority of local government units kept 100% shares, there are dozens where there are minority shares, and exactly 34 have been privatized in full, i.e. the local government unit has zero shares in such companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u303	Thank you, Minister. And there you go, Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you about these over-executions, because as a former elder, I have different experiences. In one year the over-executions were e.g. paid in the amount of 60% Once in July, for the second time, let's say November or even the following year. Does the ministry have a standard in this case to pay off these overperformances? I'm sure they'll show up. There's no question about that. To what extent, when, is it somehow structured? That's the first question. Here's my second question. There's a record that local government can buy these units. So the number of these excesses would be reduced. Right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: Yes.]] The question is whether there are any simulations today, what number of these excess performances can be purchased by different levels of government, whether it's voivodeship or district government. And another question, because there was an announcement of the liquidation of the National Health Fund. Is there anything the Minister can say about this? When? Are there any jobs, or are there plans? When's that gonna change? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u305	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u306	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. When it comes to overperformation, 100% they are under the authority of the President of the National Health Fund, and in fact not even the President, but the directors of branches. Of course, this depends on the financial resources that are available in these branches. If it's a year, when we have e.g. the increased impact of the health contribution, the year of economic growth, then there are more resources in the NFZ, and therefore branches have free resources and can use them to overendow. Let me remind you that this is happening in two ways. One mode is that medical agents sue the National Health Fund branch to court. And it is the court that determines how many of these benefits were life-saving benefits. Then, in fact, only such benefits are financed. The second mode is an agreement between the director of the National Health Fund branch and the provider. Then this director, well, evaluates the risk and concludes that it is better to settle with such an entity for a certain percentage of these excesses than to meet with him in court. And, as I say, this is the 100% responsibility of the director of the National Health Fund department. The Minister of Health has no legal capacity or competence to influence this process. As far as the simulation is concerned... the extent to which local governments' buying benefits will reduce queues, I'll be honest with you, we tried to do something like this, but it turned out to be too dwarf. Any such prognosis would be, in short, false. Because we do not know how many local governments would decide on this solution and to what extent, because this is also important. But it is obvious that each such action reduces queues, i.e. increases availability. It also increases accessibility for others to the entities concerned. Because let's remember there's a choice. Right now... Now I'm going to focus on the changes to the National Health Fund. Slowly he finishes his so-called work. a system team chaired by Minister Radziwiłł and which develops such a project. I don't want to talk about it right now. As regards the Council of Ministers' work plan, this amendment is planned for 2018.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u307	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have such a question because of the numerous voices that local governments have different financial situations and therefore there will be different opportunities to buy additional medical services. Does this law limit the possibility of using a patient, a sick man, from a hospital that was co-financed by a local government in another voivodship?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u309	It doesn't limit, of course. But the government can only finance additional benefits for their community, right? So that a patient from another voivodship can use, but as part of a queue with the NFZ. But, of course, if the local government carries out such an additional task, it significantly shortens this queue with the NFZ.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u310	But is it limited, e.g. The address in the I.D.? If someone is, say, from Lublin, can they not use additional funds allocated by the local government in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u311	Yeah, that's the concept. Self-governments most often identify their citizens in such a double way, I mean the address of the check-in combined with the fact of paying taxes... [[In a given municipality.]] ...in a given municipality, yes, sir. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u312	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u313	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have another question. In the new law, the procedure will be: net loss, there is nothing to cover in the SPOZ or hospital, that I will say briefly, the obligation to cover this loss by the local government, the local government does not cover, liquidation. Yes? That's... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: This is the sequence, yes.]] Okay. I just wanted to make sure. And the question is, Minister, so general. When we introduce this kind of law, the main goal is to improve the patient's situation, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: Yes.]] Could you point out, so that I know, in which parts of this law is improving the patient's share today in Poland. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: Indirectly just...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u314	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm so sorry. [[It's okay.]] Directly through this action, buying additional benefits. Of course, this law applies to a completely different area. To be known: this is a law that regulates the functioning of medicinal entities in Poland. If we want to change something, and I hope that we will change, in terms of improving access to benefits, this is the law on public-funded healthcare provision. I wouldn't want that law to regulate that scope. We remember some of you will remember the law on health care facilities, where everything was, and to find out what the rules were then... The lawyers were very pleased with this, and I remember that several dozen interpretations of this law had to be sent out a week. Now it's about a few a month. That's the difference between these two regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u316	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. One relates to these additional benefits introduced in Article. 9a, guaranteed benefits, and in Article. 9b to the Law on public-funded healthcare provision. You assume that the local government will buy out, let's call it, benefits, if it is a founding body, in its hospital, in short, in its ZOZ. And it raises constitutional objections, and it can give birth, let's just say bad blood, because suddenly the residents of a given county will find out that the county is poor enough to buy them nothing. Here's the question. Wouldn't it be easier for a given unit, let's assume, a given county to buy out benefits in its unit, in its hospital immediately, without differentiation: its patients Not their patients, they live at home, not at home, so that this, say, aid is transferred not per capita, but per unit to which the local government unit is the body that creates it. That's one question. Then it wouldn't give rise, at least at first sight, to any constitutional problems. And the second question is this kind of question. What would you advise a district that was based on, that's the name of it, because it didn't have the resources to adapt its hospital to standardization requirements, and now it's in a situation, basically, under the gate? What's he gonna do? Should he close this hospital, hand it over to another local government unit? Is there a third option?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u318	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u319	Thank you very much. Indeed, such a solution was considered, but ultimately we decided on what we are proposing, and this is kind of an extension of what is currently in force, because in the prevention programme the local government can also finance benefits only for its community, and this is the financing of benefits and this is the financing of benefits, so it would require quite a big change of concept. So, as far as funding is concerned, the decision was that this was to be the financing of benefits primarily in its entity, first of all in its entity, but this did not limit financing in other entities, for example. so-called. its SPOZ may not have a full range of benefits or may not be capable of providing as many benefits as the government intends to finance. So these could be different situations. When it comes to such a crisis, that there is actually no possibility anymore, because neither the entity has money, nor the government has no money, although since 1997, I note, there has been no such crisis, always dealt with this situation somehow... We know that situations are different, mostly not so good... Or because there was no choice, and both local governments and entities benefited from the help of parabanks. Right? And we know what conditions these institutions offered. But I would like to note here some records, which are already in this law, and which say that the SPOZ can be equipped not only with the free use of the property, but also with the SPOZ can be equipped with these properties. And then the PSOZ, as the owner of its building and the land on which it operates, is a completely different partner for banks, for example, when it comes to taking credit. And since next year the contracts for hospitals are going to be 10 years old, and in the case of outpatient specialist care for five years, then they're going to be completely different partners. With a certain stable position, able to plan a whole path either for development or for repairs. Therefore, all these provisions concerning the reports and the implementation of the corrective programmes are included in the Act. Here I would like to note another mechanism, namely that the formation bodies have the opportunity to pass on Without liquidation, without transformation, in agreement with another body, its entity to another body. One of the senators asked if there was such an example that the subject was handed over, whether there was such a desire to take over or hand over the subject. This was the case, although it all took place on a completely different basis. 'Cause right now this new solution doesn't apply. This included the equipment of the medical university of Jelenio Góra at the clinical hospital. And there was a lot of trouble with that, and there was a lot of legal banging to make it happen. And everyone wanted it to happen. So there are several mechanisms that will allow us to take advantage of this possibility, in addition, of the financial difficulty that the senator was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u320	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Mr. Andrzej Spider, Mr. Senator Andrzej Spider. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u321	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. At the end of 2015, the debt of hospitals amounts to around 14 billion. How much debt is due in this? In general, such a sum of debt, and this debt due, is a huge hump for hospitals, and we are aware of that. In hospitals, however, much can be done to spend money rationally. But there's also a line we can't cross. Is there any chance of an increase in health expenditure, at least in the calculated percentages and at some point in time? Is there any chance of that? Because this sum of funds spent with us is on a European scale, in relation to the situation in other countries, small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u322	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Senator rightly pointed out that both as a society, but unfortunately as a state, we are very little in health, because the least of all the countries of the European Union, of course, are proportionate. So something's got to change around here. We're spending about 4.5% on health. GDP, while the average calculated for all European countries So for people like us, for post-communist states, and for the old Union countries. It shall be at least 6.5%. So almost twice as much as we do. So here are the necessary measures to increase public funding in the system. Slowly such actions are implemented E.g. medicines for the 75+ group will be financed from the state budget and not from the National Health Fund, so there will be more of these measures, and there are also recent changes to compulsory vaccinations, which will also be financed from the state budget and not from the National Health Fund budget. This, of course, is the beginning of this path. But we need to consider whether we should start financing in a budgetary manner those areas of health protection that can be financed in a simple way and do not require all these competitive procedures. This area is e.g. psychiatry, where it is known that there is a large share of fixed costs and a small share of variable costs. In these areas, it is certainly possible to change the way this system is financed. And I think that gradually, by covering further areas, you can, without reducing the money that is currently in the National Health Fund, increase the financing of the health system. As far as commitments are concerned, they actually amount to about PLN 14 billion at the moment. These are, of course, all obligations. Because if we are talking about the SPOZ, which we are discussing above all today, these commitments currently amount to very little more than PLN 10.5 billion. This is, of course, a lot, but historically speaking, it's not such a bad result, because these commitments have been bigger. If we are talking about liabilities due, because these are important, because these are already liabilities that require repayment, they currently amount to PLN 1 billion 730 million in the case of SPOZ, and for example. in 2004 it amounted to almost PLN 6 billion. So it gradually, very slowly, but gradually decreases. Since around 2006, both total liabilities and outstanding liabilities have remained approximately constant, as I say, with a decreasing trend, and the annual growth is less than 2%, 1.5.2%. So, as you can see, local government units are really trying to make sure that these commitments aren't bigger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u324	Thank you, Minister. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! Minister! To a large extent, we talk about buying. I understand there's a need for extra money in health care, and we agree on that. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, what else is repairing the roof, buying some device, because when a patient comes from another community than the one who founded it, there is no distinction. Tell me if you've discussed this in the department. How's this gonna happen? A patient from the X commune gets hit and he's told: we're sorry, we're out of contract, the governor from your commune didn't buy the benefits, please come back in January. Can you imagine the situation where we put the hospital director who's gonna have to react like this? Wasn't there another solution? I can offer you a few solutions that should be. Because I understand it's a good idea that local governments can help with cash by buying a service directly. But why didn't you guys go out to find a way to make sure it wasn't so important that it was just a patient from the community?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u326	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u327	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Just as I've been answering to the senator here in part, it's been quite thought-out. If this has already been decided, this analysis has really been quite profound. Firstly, it is kind of compatible with health prevention programmes that can only be implemented for a given local community. Then there's already something like that. I'm not talking about vaccinations, but prevention programs, e.g. screening programs, colonoscopy or cervical cancer or breast cancer studies. However, some prevention programmes called the Prevention Programme included quite advanced medical procedures. And it was implemented only for a given community. I can give you an example. Imagine a situation in which some municipality, district or even voivodship carries out some benefits in one entity and there are residents from all over Poland. It's also a problem that's unsolvable. So it seems like it's better to limit it to your own community, especially as it's happening right now, it just happens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u328	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u329	Minister, once again, I would like to point out that what else is the issue of preventive research, even the extended ones, because this is a promotional action, is an announcement, information, who can come forward, and there may be someone not from this commune, but there is a wide promotional action. In the meantime, I'm talking about a situation where you're going to a hospital, not a healthy person, but a man who wants help, not a preventative aid, but a treatment aid, and he gets information: if you're from the X commune, then we can't help you, you have to be from the Y commune, and we're asking you to come back in January, because it's not saving lives. Here, of course, we ignore the question of saving lives, because it is indisputable. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] So that I'm leaving it, I understand we're not talking about it. I'm talking about this moment. That's something that's gonna create a different kind of conflict, that's what I'm talking about. Why didn't you find another way?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u330	Thank you. You repeated the question, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u331	Yeah, it doesn't seem like there's any other way right now. It's hard to imagine a situation like this... In short, it will be done this way. Railways must be carried out both for these benefits and for those benefits. Right? The patients are registering. We're talking about scheduled patients. As the senator himself noted, these are not patients admitted... [[Voice from the room: Suddenly.]] ...all of a sudden to the hospital because there's a danger of life or health. Then there's no discussion. It's just the kind of patients you take. And these are the scheduled patients, and they're normally booked in line. If it is a patient of a given community, it is on the list in the queue for this benefit. But we need to be aware that this is all happening when the contract for this benefit is over. So it's not like an entity or a local government can buy them in addition. This is a benefit beyond the limit, that is to say, the financing of over-limit benefits that do not come from health and life risks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u332	Thank you. Senator Andrzej Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u333	Mr. Marshal, I'm dropping the question because of the upcoming game. I'll sort it out with the Minister after the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u334	What game? [[Joy in the Chamber]] There's nothing more important to a senator than a session. Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u335	Minister, I am interested in self-government as chairman of the committee. Even though the problem, as you have said many times here and you can see, concerns local governments as forming these entities, the bill was not addressed, but the interest of local governments in this law is enormous. You answered my question in part, but you kind of didn't. With regard to these consultations with local authorities, you said that, as regards the Joint Commission, there was a negative opinion on the option of winding up the SPOZ. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: Not in this respect. Excuse me, Mr. Senator...]] Just so we're clear. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: In terms of purchasing benefits.]] As regards the purchase of benefits. And in terms of liquidation, there were no problems. Because I was wondering... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: No, he was... Sorry.]] ...who, in a situation where we have a problem with liquidation, will provide the residents with health security in a given area, within a given local government. Is there going to be a new facility, so to speak, a new SPZOZ? If the units can't afford to pay, what's the situation gonna look like? You were talking about joining up with Senator Czerwinski's question, it's my question that's a little connected to his question. That's one thing. And here's the thing: what did the local authorities argue against in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u336	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Of course, there were local authorities who knew that this provision had been in force for almost 20 years, and there were those who had just noticed that they were forced to cover a negative financial result, and such comments were made. Those who knew about this record did not comment on it. Of course, I am convinced that since the rule has been in force for 20 years and no SPOZ has yet been removed under this provision, it will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u338	Thank you. Senator Krystian Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just a moment ago, you were kind enough to give us data on the amount of expenditure on the health of our citizens, and you put it at a percentage of GDP. My question is what percentage of GDP in spending on our health comes from private pockets. Is it estimated, is it possible to estimate? Because we know that this difficult access to healthcare in many cases causes us to use our own resources to get treatment or access to healthcare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u340	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u341	Thank you very much. Of course, no one will say that this is for sure, but it is believed to be about PLN 30 billion a year. Let me remind you that the fund's budget is about PLN 177 billion. But it's also a perfect opportunity to tell you what it's like. the extent of NHS funding in England alone, without Scotland, without Northern Ireland, without Wales. That's about 130 billion pounds. It is to realise the differences in Europe in terms of financing health care, and we know that there citizens are not very satisfied with their system. [[And what's the percentage of GDP?]] That's about 7%. , over 7%. [[And there are queues... and there are queues in the UK?]] Yeah, there's queues, except the British solve it a little differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u342	Okay, I'm not gonna ask another question. There you go, Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have already talked about this debt of 14 billion at the end of 2015. The government is declaring, so to speak, to help reduce this debt. And among others. is to do so by setting up a hospital development agency. This agency is primarily designed to help these weakest hospitals in terms of funding. Could you remove the hack of mystery when this agency is set up and what will be the formula of this aid, where the money will eventually be sought to help these hospitals?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u344	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u345	Well, I would like to point out that such assistance is already implemented e.g. by the Industrial Development Agency, which, under quite strict conditions, assists hospitals by providing them with appropriate loans, but in return, receiving a restructuring programme that is subsequently monitored and required of those hospitals. That's what happened, for example. from the Children's Health Center in January or from a clinical hospital in Bydgoszcz, or from UCLA in Gdańsk. So this help is being implemented, isn't it? It's not like nothing's happening. As for the concept of this hospital development agency that... Well, we don't know what it's going to be called in the end, but that's the name that gives the idea that the main task of such an agency would not be to give loans for restructuring, but to help develop. So it's about helping such local authorities and hospitals that simply cannot afford, for example, modernization, reconstruction of operating rooms or central sterilization, cannot afford to recreate or even create such basic structures for quality, for the patient's safety. Of course, right now, the concept of this agency is open and contentious... is discussion. Well, and I'm not going to talk about any discovery here, but the success of this agency will, of course, depend primarily on the amount of resources it has. And that's probably the hardest thing to get with this agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u346	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jacek Włosowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about a new possibility for local governments to finance services. Is that a possibility... Is it possible for a local authority to buy out services only in its premises or outside the area? So, for example, can the commune of Świętokrzyski buy out the medical benefits in some facility in Warsaw?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u348	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u349	This record is quite flexible and says... Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This record says that in the first place at yours, in yours. So it doesn't limit... If the same entity does not guarantee the same spectrum of benefits as the government expects, the local government may buy out those benefits in another entity which does not belong to it, although... Well, you can imagine that he will send his residents to Warsaw, although it is unlikely.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u350	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u351	Minister, in the following article. 50a in the mouth. 1 is a provision stating that the need to ensure the health safety of citizens and rational health care is taken into account in the creation of the SPOZ. And this record corresponds, of course, to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and paragraph 1. 3, where we talk about the possibility of setting up independent healthcare facilities. My question is, in recent years, has there been... I think you've already answered that question in part. But I'm talking about the governing body, which is the local government unit. Did it happen that the SPOZ was created or that there was a failure to restructure in the direction of... I'm not saying that towards a private, but towards a private health care facility... Did it just happen that such a conversion would take place on the basis of a recent restructuring, a transition towards a non-public health facility? And then, and then... And, of course, is the safety that I just mentioned at risk, and will the SPOZ only arise when health safety is at risk? Will this also involve the so-called health plan, health security map? Because they say a map like this should be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u352	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u353	It wasn't created because there was a ban. Right? And right now, it's possible again. Of course, I hope that this possibility will also come from health maps. There are mechanisms that will regulate this, because there is such a thing as the opinion of the voivode in terms of investment in a given region, and this opinion is based primarily on maps. At the same time, there is such a thing as a purchase plan in the fund, and this purchase plan must also be based on maps. These are two mechanisms that will not allow the creation of unnecessary new entities or new branches, because there is also the question of assessing internal reorganisations of hospitals or clinics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u354	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Warczyński: Thank you, Mr Marshal, thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. [[There are no volunteers...]] Senator Dorota Czudowska, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Just for a little while, 'cause...]] [[Ours will win...]] Excuse me, who's in charge here, Senator Klein, Senator Zientarski? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Each of you has 10 minutes to make your first speech, and then five minutes. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u355	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the government proposal, the Law amending the Law on Medicinal Activities and certain other laws amends only certain provisions of the Act in force since April 2011, but these amendments And you can see that after the questions. They're pretty important, lively senators. Although after the debate in the Seym I followed, I expected there to be a hotter atmosphere here, but it is as it should be in the Senate: calmly, prudently. Main targets. The main objective of this law is to halt the commercialisation of independent public health establishments, privatization of hospitals, which were created in postwar history with public funds, i.e. they are owned by the entire nation. The objectives of this law have been quite comprehensively presented by the rapporteur Senator, so I will no longer repeat them. But following the medical press, as well as the e-mails that come to us, I noticed that many people express one or other concerns about whether this law is the most necessary and whether it is needed at all. High Izbo! Health care is always on the line for public opinion. You know why. It applies to everyone. This is the situation of Polish patients, but also the situation of health workers. This situation and patients and health workers, as demonstrated by recent protests at the Children's Health Center, do not allow politicians to sleep peacefully. Do we have to change things? Well, we have to. Poland in terms of assessing the level of health benefits, and this assessment is followed by almost all European countries and richer countries in the world, in 35 countries, is ranked thirty-fourth. There's only Montenegro behind us. About what's been said in the last few years... Our hospitals are in debt to PLN 14 billion. Required, non-necessary, but debt is debt and one day you have to pay it back. Queues to specialists extend to several months, and in some specialized operations such as knee, hip or cataract surgery, in some regions of Poland are even several years old. A huge shortage of doctors in Poland is a burning problem. 15,000 doctors are missing today. Low wages for particularly middle-class personnel, including nurses... In hospitals privatized under the 2011 Act, it is not so good either. A temporary improvement was observed between 2012 and 2013, but already in 2014 losses started to generate. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market. The Supreme Audit Chamber mentions in the first place underestimation of the costs of health care services, but also a failure to adapt the structure of hospitals to the health needs of the environment, errors in the management of the unit, and the lack of effective supervision of the operation of hospitals by those entities. Privatisation of certain hospitals involving certain health benefits... As these proverbial raisins from the cake have been selected and are a source of many unjustified profits for some individuals, profits derived from the contract with the National Health Fund, which we know is maintained from taxes of Poles. Back to the law itself, I would first of all like to thank the Ministry very much for the fact that the terminology of the law has withdrawn from the horrible word "business" and it will no longer be a medicinal company, just a medical facility. If, in future laws, we give up the use of the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient," the word "recipient" and "recipient" will be expected by many health professionals, but also by many people who are close to a holistic approach to man, such a more humanistic... ♪ But now ♪ I don't think it's just for my own sake that I thank you. Several dozen amendments to this Act concern the conversion of the words We breathe with relief... What is very important in this law is what the rapporteur stressed, but also the Minister in response to questions. It's about the possibility... If the hospital doesn't get out of debt It has a certain time, not such a short time, but it will be possible to close this hospital, which does not mean that it will be such a total liquidation. You can create a new SPZOZ here. These changes in the Act give the right to create new SPZOZs both government units, ministry, voivodships and local governments. This is the desired and expected record. It was said here that we are abolishing the obligation to insure ourselves from the so-called "non-existent" in practice because of the high costs. medical events. This will reduce costs and give some peace of mind to the witness I'm gonna stick to this nomenclature. But it's also going to cause what I don't think we're talking about... The previous law required the submission of a quarterly report to the State Labour Inspection and to medical authorities of the number of persons employed and the conditions of employment. Every quarter, ladies and gentlemen! It's not really necessary to report to anyone. So less bureaucracy is also a joy. This law, which may improve the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the future on the analysis of the poor or well-being of health care establishments, refers to the development of indicators of the financial and economic situation that will be developed by the Minister of Health and the Minister responsible for finance. This analysis has not yet been analyzing why one hospital is failing. If this hospital does not generate debts, has a wide range of health benefits, patients and residents of the region are satisfied And we still have to add to the other one. I myself was the councillor of the voivodship sejm, who owned three large specialist hospitals, in Wrocław, in Jelenia Góra and in Legnica, and every once in a while, as there were opportunities in the sejm, these hospitals were financed with really large millions of zlotys, but never the hospital directors presented an analysis of where these debts were. We couldn't even find out what the structure of executives' employment was and what the earnings were, because according to the local government, according to the sejm's council, it was classified. But it was possible to finance tens of millions of dollars every now and then that or that hospital. Therefore, these financial and economic indicators, objective indicators for all and valid for all SP ZOZ units, will allow for a meaningful, objective assessment of why things are going badly or well here. And this amendment... Actually, no amendment, the addition of additional articles in the Public Benefits Financing Act gives local governments the opportunity, does not force them to... But we know local governments that even want to help, but they didn't have the legal option. I think a lot of local governments are gonna use it. And the side of today's opposition I would like to say that we are even criticized in our circles for this, that we enter too early with this law, because local governments, which... In most local governments, Law and Justice have no power, so local governments, where there are a lot of people from giving or choosing today's opposition, the Civic Platform or the PSL, will have a lot of room to show off to their citizens and this may prevent us from winning the next election. [[Voice from the room: Nooo...]] But we don't look at it that way, we don't look at it that way, and we're hoping that this bill will oblige present-day councillors to make it possible to set other priorities in cities, maybe spend less on festivals, less on several occasions... There are always a few such events in big cities, at least in mine, every once in a while thousands go into rockets, because there are lights because it's New Year's Eve, because there's some kind of street holiday... There's a lot of money going to fetals, or maybe in a situation where there are deficiencies, when we can't afford it, and it's a legal possibility, it's worth it just for health benefits. To prevent privatisation of the ZOZ SP is also, I will remind you, the implementation of the electoral programme of Law and Justice. We've been talking about this for so long, we're against privatising public property. [[Senator, please recapitulate...]] I gotta go, right? [[Yeah, slow down.]] Well, I'm almost done. It is also important in this law that an additional article has been introduced, according to which the programming of health care needs in a given region must be based on health maps which the Ministry of Health has prepared and is still preparing. High Izbo, in Polish health care can't get any worse. It can only get better. And for starters, that's the step, maybe not too big. But if at the beginning of the change we can't yet relieve the downside of all patients, then maybe we can create an opportunity. And that's what we're going to do. The aid is at least part of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u356	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! The voices are coming together to be brief, so I will be really brief because of today's important event in the sporty life of our nation. A few words, however, should be said. Because if you can agree with Minister Radziwiłł's thesis, as well as many of his predecessors, that it is not possible to conduct modern protection or health care at the level of one of the lowest percentage of GDP in Europe in the long run... And it should be agreed that health expenditure should not only increase but also benefit rationally. There's no doubt about that. Nevertheless, the bill seems to be a classic slice for a large, ulcerative wound or, as the nurses say, a harder cover for a boiling pot, which is a health care system. The debt of hospitals goes into billions and does not tend to decline very much, and the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification releases further specialties with new prices. And most, the vast majority of these valuations are even lower than they have been so far, which is extremely worrying, because the general knowledge of hospital managers, directors and chief executives is that which branches are profitable, which balance and which always bring losses. This is the case, among other things. with pediatrics, so is general surgery, which has very low priced procedures. Already with neurosurgery, cardiac surgery or other disciplines is different. That's why they grow up like mushrooms after rain hemodynamic labs, where the hearts of Poles are saved. Because these are procedures that are well valued. But per balance it resulted in such a result that we reduced very much the percentage of Poles dying of acute coronary syndromes. So this money, though judged against honor and faith, was spent well. And it would be concluded that perhaps the undervalued procedures should be equaled up rather than the well-estimated ones down. You could talk about it for a long time. But I'll get back to the bill. Knowing the budgets of local governments, which have many tasks ahead of them, even in relation to regional railways, roads, etc., I do not see in the budgets of these local governments a reserve to buy out extra-alien benefits. There are simpler ways to do that. Please pay attention to what few people know, namely that a serious branch of the national economy, one of the pillars of a modern state next to the judiciary, police, education and army, is health protection. And health care, this serious department, is not subject to VAT laws at all. Hospitals aren't mowed. So we issue an invoice to the NFZ without VAT, and we pay VAT for everything we buy, and we can't get it back. It would be a simple task for the budget, relatively simplest, because hospital revenues would increase and VAT turnover would make the effort of the state budget relatively least. As for other solutions, I will remind you of the sacred memory of Professor Religa, the Minister of Health, who, before his death, as Minister, considered the following project: since the state budget has so much And so much money, let the limits of procedures be what they're gonna be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I ask my colleagues not to disturb you, Mr. Marshal? [[My friends don't bother.]] [[Senator's jury mates!]] [[That's what we're talking about.]] I submitted a project Which we discussed among surgeons, cardiac surgeons To require hospitals to do 100% NFZ contract, and as far as more is concerned, if hospitals have opportunities and find patients, so that they can provide these services paid from local governments, private pockets, charities, health plans of workplaces, etc. This program was torpedoed then. Right now he's coming back like this, I'd say, a dwarf form that doesn't give anything, because immediately he's gonna create a diversity of access to health care, because there are rich local governments who have a chance because they have a mine or other rich plant on their property. There are poor self-governments who will not be able to pay, to buy new procedures. This will result in a growing diversity in access to healthcare. I no longer want to focus on other economic records about the so-called. the gold stock, the prohibition on dividend payments, because, as far as I know, they are in conflict with the EU's competitiveness regulations. Also resignation from the obligation to hold insurance for adverse events In other words, complications are a dangerous solution. This duty was extremely difficult, because insurers, or basically one, monopolist PZU, imposed draconian rates. However, if we release it and the hospital does not pay insurance, and there will be several complications on its territory, because of which patients will apply for several hundred thousand zlotys each and it happens almost every day It's going to be very dangerous. It's like we're going on an expensive road trip with no insurance, and this car would crash. After all, the owner would be ruined. It'll be the same with hospital owners if they don't get insurance. And you have to be aware of that. I wouldn't want to prolong. I think that as regards the health system that we need to improve, evolutionaryly improve, there is a cross-party agreement that health expenditure is low and that it needs to be increased. But the provisions of this law cause that this is a type of treatment that can cause more harm than benefit and will not have the expected effect, so I will ask for the rejection of this law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u358	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because of the pressure of time, I promised I wouldn't exceed five minutes... [[And cross...]] If you're gonna say that, I'm gonna... Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I'll start by addressing you. We know that the Minister has been working in the Ministry for a long time, he has experience. I would like to say that I understand that this bill is a beginning of a road that is called a health strategy. Because when we talk about management, it's not enough to take one brick out of the management pyramid, change it and say we changed the whole system. It's something from the patient's point of view. That's what I asked you. It doesn't really matter; I stress: it doesn't matter much. 'Cause I'm about to refer to what matters. That's why we're expecting... I must say that so far, for 27 years, actually no comprehensive element has been presented regarding the approach to health, and I hope that we will see such a project someday. With regard to the issue of this law, what I asked and what the Minister said, namely financial issues: net loss, coverage by the hospital, if not, by the local government, and if not by the local government, then liquidation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have a heartfelt request for Senator Kleina not to speak. [[In important matters...]] 'Cause then he's gonna ask me at break what I'm talking about. [[Okay, Mr. Senator. But, Senator...]] I'm sorry. [[I understand that the point of view depends on the point of the seat.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] [[There you go.]] I'll just say, Mr. Marshal, that I've been chatted up. But I'm continuing... [[Oh, what a poor man.]] I'm continuing with the financial thread. Self-governments have learned, and hospitals have also, and what needs to be done so that there is no liquidation of the facility. And this experience from previous years is. There were rules... As we remember, Minister, no SPOZ in Poland has fallen, has not been liquidated, despite huge commitments. That's why I think that's what knowledge is. There is only one aspect that is being introduced here, which is important in terms of the finances and functioning of the hospital, in short, namely the need to present a resolution programme. The Director must submit a serious proposal taking into account those obligations which arise. Therefore, there is a certain risk element in the liquidation of hospitals. And now there's only two more sentences about buying services, which is the one I've been asking about. Well, it's a completely different matter of buying equipment, helping with repairs, investment, because then you don't distinguish between patients who enter the facility on... But buying additional services by the units will, in my opinion, introduce an incredible mess. I understand the idea of increasing the amount of money that goes into health care. It's a necessity. This is something we've been waiting for for many, many years. The expenditures are getting a little higher, perhaps one day it is worth thinking about the even deeper movement concerning the amount of money that will go into health care. Because even the patient's coming to the scheduled procedure... He can hear you, you're not from this commune, please come in January, this is a bad solution, you could have come up with another one, but you didn't offer it. Therefore, I believe that here the issue of local governments from the point of view of finance and buying additional services and elements that Senator Grodzki spoke about. ♪ Plus what I'm talking about now ♪ It is a bad element when it comes to solutions. Finally, two sentences on what we have discussed many times, and we are waiting for system solutions. First of all, queues in Poland. Unless there's an increase in finance to the EU average, it's already been mentioned here... But there is another problem: Poland today has the lowest rate of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. And, of course, there are those proposals that were and in the previous term, which you are talking about now by the Minister, which are being prepared, but unless there is a clear increase in the number to be comparable to that in the European Union countries, we will have a huge problem with queues. Secondly, there is a question of the map of services. I'm just gonna say two sentences. From the sacred memory of Professor Religa, as Pomerania, we were in the project as those who implemented such a pilot program of a network of hospitals, which showed the need to establish a map of such services in at least the voivodship. Whether it's called a network of hospitals or a map of services, it's absolutely necessary. And without the above-mentioned solutions for increasing health care expenditures, especially the increase in the number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, while at the same time maps of medical services on the premises of the individual... all other elements are such small flowers. We take this brick out of this management pyramid and we say: we reform the health system. I repeat, without these three foundations 15 years there will be no qualitative change regarding health protection in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u360	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't know anything about medicine, which is why I'm gonna spend a little time working on it... [[What do you mean? Everyone knows each other.]] ...save your time. I'd like to congratulate you for two reasons. First of all, because of the legal language, which is finally right here. We walked away from a very strange new speech, which was in the previous law, in the form of the phrase "the company of the medicinal entity." It's a good thing they gave it up. We finally know what's going on. Instead of the mentioned language monster, it is proper to use the phrase "hospital" or "medical establishment." And for this reason, the Minister deserves to be congratulated. I think it is appropriate to accept this change. Similarly, the second change, which I also congratulate on, namely that we are introducing the possibility for local governments to finance medical services. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, you can take such criticism as I sometimes hear here that this is supposed to be not equal treatment for patients. 'Cause depending on where the community lives, it's either better or worse. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is a kind of philosophy of envy towards the one who got lucky. If someone is lucky enough to live in a community that has the ambition to undertake this programme, they will allocate funds in a more rational way, limit sometimes the people's and non-high-level events in favour of financing certain medical activities, it will be the glory of such a municipality and such mayor. And I think that's a good idea for a town like this and a mayor like that. That's why I'm signing off on these proposals. I would not be afraid of what you, as an opposition, mention here. Of course, I am aware that what we are talking about here is the first step in regulating health care issues in Poland at all. The next step should probably be to liquidate the National Health Fund and replace it with another institution. What the National Health Fund is doing sometimes causes hair to run on its head. Recently, my doctor friend was denied the right to write prescriptions with discounts because there is no special disabled toilet in the private doctor's office, which he founded 20 years ago as one of the first. Ladies and gentlemen, if in such categories the said office operates, this is it. I think it is very meaningful that such a situation is not acceptable. I am no longer talking about other situations which lead to the fact that hospitals often have to process themselves to finance the medical benefits they have provided, because the National Health Fund often refuses to do so. So, in my opinion, we're going in the right direction right now. And the next steps should soon be taken, so that our health care will finally stop being sick and be healthy if it is to restore health to others. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And finally, let's solve the local government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u362	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Tomasz Grodzki. The discussion is closed. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Tax Administration Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 205 and the committee's report In print No 205 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u363	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will tell you at the very beginning, Mr. Marshal, that for each senator and for each senator the session is very important, but today at 9 p.m. there is a match of Poland. Germany. I just wanted to remind you... I'm going back to the report... [[I don't remember, Mr. Senator... I'm not gonna shorten or limit the discussion.]] But I didn't ask your marshal to do that, absolutely. I agree with the report on the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. It is a law adopted by the Sejm on 10 June 2016 on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act. On 14 June, the Commission dealt with this law, examined it at its meeting and asked the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The purpose of the Act is to amend the entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 1 July 2016 as at 1 January 2017. This is due to the fact that work is underway on the National Tax Administration Act, which, as announced, would enter into force on 1 January 2017. This change was the subject of the committee's work. No comments were submitted at the committee meeting, no discussion. The Commission has adopted a law against one abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u364	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would the representative of the government, Deputy Minister Wiesław Jasiński, like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: No.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We begin to consider item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 60th anniversary of Poznań June 1956. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 135, and the committee's report In print No 135 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee on the draft resolution on celebrating the 60th anniversary of Poznań June 1956. The report is contained in print No 135 S. The applicant is a group of senators. Ladies and gentlemen, on 28 June 1956, metal factory workers, Cegielski's factories, went to the street. Cegielski's factories in 1956 were named after Joseph Stalin. For 3 days the break of Poznań's June lasted. 359 tanks in the streets of Poznań, many people died.... These events were the result of strikes which were caused by failure to reach an agreement as regards the demands made by the strikers. The meetings lasted, the trade unions went to Warsaw to the metal band, met at the Ministry responsible for metal industry, did not reach agreements, returned to Poznań. In a moment, I will tell you what the demands were, and at the moment I would like to move on to the resolution itself. I would first of all like to thank the chairman of the committee and the other members of the committee for the discussion and for the comments that have been made. We have made two substantive amendments, tabled by Senator Jan Żaryn, and several stylistic amendments. The first was about converting Poles to workers, because in 1956 there was a protest of workers. The second amendment, which was accepted, meant that Stanisław Hejmowski, the defender of the events of Poznań June, should be mentioned by name. He's the one who said that he doesn't feed on bullets of people who cry out for bread. In this resolution, we wanted to mention the name and surname of the defender of the events of Poznań June. Besides, there is also a street named Stanisław Hejmowski in Poznań. These two amendments have been introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now read you the text of the resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 16 June 2016 On 28 June 1956, the workers of the Cegielski factory, who were then named Joseph Stalin, stopped their work and went out into the streets. They chanted slogans: "We want to live like people," "We want free Poland," "We want religion in schools." As the march moved towards the center of the city, it grew and grew powerful. Already 100,000 people gathered before the building of the Provincial Committee of the PZPR. Because the authorities ignored the protest, the crowd broke into the building and then went to the prison and to the headquarters of the Security Office. Even though the international Poznań Fair continued in the city, the militia opened fire to demonstrators in front of witnesses from all over the world. One of the first to die was 13-year-old Romek Strzłkowski, who became a symbol of heroic struggle against communist dictatorship, enslavement of the nation and violation of the fundamental rights of the individual. There were dozens of dead, about a thousand wounded and hundreds of oppressed. The view of tanks on the streets of the city, Cyrankiewicz's threat that whoever raises his hand on the people's power, this power will chop off this hand and the beautiful words of the defender of the victims of communist terror Dr. Stanisław Hejmowski, that he does not feed on bullets of people who cry out for bread. Poznań drama 1956 opens a long list of struggles of Polish workers with communist slavery. Therefore, on a monument in the heart of the city depicting two steel crosses, symbols of death and resurrection, connected with a cord next to 1956 there are dates: 1968, 1970, 1976, 1980 and 1981. The crosses complement the monument with the head of the eagle. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 60th anniversary of the Poznań Uprising in 1956 pays tribute to its heroic participants. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you, High Senate, and I ask you to adopt this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u366	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Piotr Flork to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[I'd like to join the discussion.]] Also for discussion. Good. Senator Czesław Ryszka will be the first to speak. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Senator Czesław Ryszka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u367	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the initiators for this resolution, because it is very important, historical. I would also like to refer to the fact that the workers of Poznań chanted, among others, during the manifestation of 28 June 1956. We want to live like people, we want free Poland, and we also want religion in schools. Let me add that the protesters sang patriotic and religious songs, e.g. On Mickiewicz Square there was sung yet Poland did not die, but we also want God and who will give himself to his Lord. In other words, demanding bread and freedom, the protesters courageously cried out about the right to freedom and belief in God. I will remind you that at that time in Poland 2/3 of the diocese was uninhabited. Primate Stefan Wyszyński, Bishop Baraniak, Bishop Kaczmarek were imprisoned, others removed from the diocese, guarded by monasteries, many priests were imprisoned. Caritas was taken from the church, religious instruction was removed from the schools, there was no independent Catholic press, permanent trials, executions on the most faithful patriotic homelands. It is very important that the cognizants, demanding bread and freedom, did not only think of themselves, but remembered the whole nation and the Church. This is for this Polish solidarity, for calling for the subjectivity of the communists directed 2 armored divisions against the workers, 2 infantry divisions, in total over 10,000 soldiers with 360 tanks. Historians are still not sure if 57 people were killed or more and some 650 were injured. Among the killed, as was recalled here, there was a 13-year-old boy symbol, Romek Strzałkowski, who walked in the first row and carried a banner with a sign demanding the restoration of religion in the school. I would like to stress once again: it is very important that the audience demanded not only the improvement of living conditions and greater civil liberties, but also for the first time in post-war Poland that religious freedom was called for so massively. I mentioned that Poznań's break was occupied with victims, sufferings and persecutions, but this sacrifice of the cognizants was not in vain. It should be said that soon after Poznan June he could come and came Polish October. At that time, exactly on August 26th, on Jasna Góra the vows of the nation were renewed, trusting in the fate of the motherland of the Blessed Mother. The preparations for the celebration of the millennium of Poland's baptism began, Gomulka returned to power, the Primate and other bishops were released from Komancza, religion But only for 2 years, the school was restored. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, it must be added that on June 28, 1981, on the 20th anniversary of Poznań's June, on Adam Mickiewicz Square in Poznań, 2 monumental crosses were unveiled, as already stated in the resolution, connected by a joint cross-arm, attached by thick ties. Next to the ground is a pillar of the third cross, broken a few meters above the ground and crowned with an eagle breaking off for flight. It then wrote the words "For liberty, law, and bread." What is very important, 25 years later, in 2006, on the 50th anniversary of the events, workers welded the word "God" to Poznań crosses. It was only by adding this one word that the full truth of those events was given. The Archbishop, the Metropolitan of Poznań Stanisław Gądecki then said, without this expression, everything that is written on this monument is not quite true. Such questions on the margin: why was this reference to God not placed on Poznań crosses in 1981 when the monument was erected? Sometimes it takes time for the full historical truth to appear. Today we know very well that the acquaintances did not forget God at that time. By demanding bread and freedom, they courageously cried out for the right to religious freedom. In other words, the Protestants bore witness to a deeper view of the world. They testified that without God, without religion, without natural law, freedom is incomplete and even dangerous, because the laws established then do not have permanent foundations. Finally, I would like to ask myself and you: what remains of us from Poznań June, from this cry not only for bread but also for God? I'm asking you this in terms of the times we've lived to see. Today it is heroic to defend supposedly dying trees in the Białowieża Forest. It became heroic, as we saw recently in Warsaw on the streets, boasting of feminists during Manify, who killed unborn children many times. What about Romk Strzłkowski's peers who blasphemously threw them on the ground and trampled on the host? There are many reasons for such attitudes, and among them, that we do not respect our history, that young people in schools impose some slogan, indefinite vision of Polish history without responsibility for the future. Let us draw conclusions from Poznań's June or Gdańsk's August, that Polish freedom must not be separated from the belief that conscience and bread are equivalent to each other, constitute a human trait, determine our dignity and identity as Poles and Catholics. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u368	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Flork, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As a result of the end of World War II, or actually as a result of the Yalta conference the Stalinist period began in Poland. It's a very difficult time. In 1949, when it was Stalin's birthday anniversary, the party authorities concluded that the patronage of Hippolite Cegielski's Plant should be changed to Józef Stalin. Also, as the senator mentioned, Adam Mickiewicz Square in Poznań was named Joseph Stalin. Ladies and gentlemen, this period has been a very difficult time. But then the year 1956 came, when the workers of Hippolit Cegielski's Departments were conducting talks, when the union workers from this plant were discussing the working conditions they had, about the progressive increases in tax that were to take place, about the hidden increases and many other demands they had made. They went to Warsaw, to the Ministry, they had conversations, but they didn't have any effect. And when they returned to Poznań, on June 28th at 6:00 a.m. on the first shift at the Department in 3 at the Hippolite Cegielski Works, the workers started protesting. They didn't take the job. The next departments stopped at 6:15, 6:30 p.m., the workers told everyone there was a strike that they weren't taking the job. And for the first time after 1945, the workers went out into the streets. We remember what happened in the meantime in Poland: referendum, fraudulent elections that took place. And now the workers are taking action to make a difference. They're the ones who've been burdened with this task. They go out on the streets and walk down Dzierżyńskiego Street That's her name. They split up into two groups. One group follows the streets of Workers' and Industrial Affairs, the other the People's Guard. This group goes to the Poznań Fair. It so happens that during that time the International Poznań Fair was held. In 1921 the Poznań Fair was established. In 1929 there was this big, famous Universal National Exhibition. Since then, many visitors have been coming to the Poznań Fair. There were a lot of foreigners at the fair, so it was known that this event could not be hidden. Already in various countries, in various European capitals, all information about what is happening in Poznań was provided. The crowd split up, but he came back, came back from one side and the other. Meanwhile, the residents of Poznań gathered, about 100,000 people gathered outside the building of the voivodship committee of the party. There was an attempt to hold talks with the President of the City Council of Poznań, with the committee, with representatives of the regional committee of the party. Unfortunately, the effect of these conversations was none. Therefore, the workers first tried and then entered the building of the voivodship committee of the party. There was also a rumor that workers' representatives were arrested, that one of the repair workers of the rolling stock repair plant... It was another factory, too, from which the workers on the way, as the workers walked. They joined this protest because he was arrested... And the password came: we go to the longest street where there is a prison in Poznań. And there was an entrance to the prison grounds, to the release of prisoners, after all, many political prisoners who were there. And so further action began in the city of Poznań. That's where the workers got some of the guns. Some of the workers went to Kochanowskiego Street, where the seat of the security office was. Of course, they also tried to enter the security office. The first shots fired on Kochanowskiego Street, and there were direct fights and clashes in the area of the city of Poznań. And that's where Romek Strzalkowski, the 13-year-old boy who first carried the flag, and then somewhere in the warehouse, was stopped, died. But there are many, many people who have been involved in these activities who have died. During this time, the first secretary of PZPR arrives in Poznań... sorry, the secretary of PZPR was Edward Gierek, who came to Poznań as well. The Prime Minister, Józef Cyrankiewicz, comes, the Minister, the Deputy Minister of the Interior Stanisław Popławski. The Popławski we talked about here, when we were debating street names, that they had to be decommunized. You know who Popławski was, a Soviet general, then a general in Poland, a Deputy Minister, he took command in Poznań when it comes to events of Poznan June. In Ławica initially both Józef Cyrankiewicz and Edward Gierek as well as Popławski had such a command center. Tanks were directed to Poznań at night. This view of all survivors of this Poznań June, they remember. They remember Wielkopolska Square, Marcinkowski Avenue, 359 tanks in the city of Poznań and ongoing battles. Such forces were used, such forces were drawn from the Silesian military district. It was difficult to win this Poznań Uprising in view of such overwhelming force. But the fight lasted 20... June 29th and June 30th. 29 June Prime Minister said That's what I was talking about. Whoever raises his hand to that hand will be torn off. These are the words of Józef Cyrankiewicz, which were uttered by him on the radio in Poznań. And unfortunately, the consequences of these events were many casualties. Various sources speak of various numbers: 57 victims, 58 victims, and seventy-seven victims. It is difficult to determine exactly this number, because they are people who died, but then for a few or several days, or even a few months there were further victims of these events. Ladies and gentlemen, we remember all this and that it was the first such a labour protest in Poland. In October 1956 we were also faced with an uprising in Hungary. Hungarians also thought, as it was in Poznań, that they could create an uprising that there would be no interference of military, Soviet forces. This did not happen in Poznań, but so many tanks were used against the inhabitants of Poznań that there was no chance. In 1956, as a result of this uprising, Poznan June, an uprising broke out in Hungary. And we must remember these events. In 1981, when Lech Wałęsa was the head of a very important event, the rise of the Solidarity... Throughout 1980 and 1981, until the time when martial law was declared, various actions were taken, as well as acquaintances remembered that there was a need to celebrate those events. Therefore, on 28 June 1981 a monument commemorating the victims of Poznań June was unveiled in Poznań, in the presence of Lech Wałęsa. And there are dates on this monument, which are important and which I mentioned, i.e. 1968, 1970, 1976, recently we adopted a resolution in this case. 1980 and 1981. This year is the 60th round anniversary of the events of 28 June 1956. Of course, the ceremony in Poznań will take place for this purpose, and we would like to celebrate the memory of all those who died who fought for freedom. Because that first Poznań Uprising, in Poznań, which has traditions when it comes to uprisings... After all, we remember the uprising of 1918, on 27 December, when the Greater Poles themselves organized the uprising. We talked here, while talking about Ignacy Jan Paderewski, that he was also responsible for the fact that this uprising exploded. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we remember this and we want to commemorate it. It is only a pity that there have also been divisions in Poznań, even among the organizations and associations of Poznan June. There are several of them in Poznań, that is, many people working in these associations. And mostly it's about commemorating these events... [[Mr. Senator, time...]] I'm almost done. And it's about a military aide. Will she or won't she? It's hard to say yet. Since it is probably the order of the head of the Ministry of National Defence to attach victims from Smolensk to all appeals, where there is a military aide, they are to be joined... Therefore, it is difficult to say what it will be like, because these discussions are still ongoing. Because it is difficult to combine the events of Poznan June, so important and important in our history, with the victims of this great tragedy at Smolensk. There's no... [[Mr. Senator, it's a few minutes late.]] It has nothing to do with this, so... I hope so. I'm almost done. That there will be an agreement and that the anniversary of this event will be honored in Poznań. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u370	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution amending the resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 199, and the report in print No 199 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hereby present a report on the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs and the Legislative Committee on the draft resolution amending the resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. These changes are contained in print No 199. It's a short story. In May of this year, the Senate decided, in connection with the amendments to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, to give the Senate Marshal a delegation to establish and inform the senators of the beginning and end of the deadline for submitting applications for the appointment of members of the College of National Remembrance Institute of the Polish National Crimes Commission, so that the period of submission of applications would not be less than 14 days. This delegation was included by the High Senate in the article. 2 amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure. On 9 June this year, a group of senators, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, submitted a draft amendment to this Article to the Senate Marshal. 2 providing for the deletion of the words from the last paragraph so that the application period is not less than 14 days. I would also like to inform the High House that for next week the Sejm has planned on its agenda the election of its representatives to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. The draft amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure were adopted at its meeting on 15 June this year by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and the Legislative Commission. And these committees ask the High House to accept it without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u372	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jan Zarin. Senator Jan Żaryn is now unable to attend the sitting for important reasons, and I would therefore ask you, if necessary, to address questions to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not a good change in the rules. This is a bad change because the rules are destroyed by an ad hoc political goal. What's going on here? After all, the resolution, which is being amended, was recently passed on 16 May. What's this all about? The point is to make this change in the IPN, which will end the 16th anniversary of the IPN we know, at a rapid pace. If this change had not been made, an additional session of the Sejm would have to be convened, or the election of the President of the IPN would have taken place in September. And you don't want to wait, you're in a hurry. You just thanked the president who's resigning. This is a bad change, because the rules that we set in the rules cannot be eliminated for such an ad hoc purpose. The deadline of 14 days for reporting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, concerns: the National Council of Judicial Affairs, the National Council of Public Prosecutors, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, the Monetary Policy Council and the IPN Council. The introduction of this change will make it possible to submit applications today, as from now on, and within 5 days... let's assume, on 25 June, a deadline can be set for the formulation of such proposals, which could also be 3 days, given this change. This is breaking the rules, breaking the rules that we should guard, because we're here in the Senate guardians of the rules. I am, of course, against this change and will vote against this change. It's not just a change. This is a change that, I'm afraid, will also be applied in other places, because this is a precedent. Surprise, quick... Why? So the opposition doesn't have time to submit their candidacy? You've got most of it. Again, this is a bad change, not a good change, the Senators of Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u374	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a recess until 19.20. After the break, there will be a vote. I'm asking Senator Secretary for communications.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u375	A meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate in the Law on Medicinal Activities and some other laws will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 176. Message two. The joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of proposals for the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u376	I'm declaring a recess until 7:20 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 18 to 19 minutes 20]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u377	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're coming back... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the proceedings have already begun. I ask you to silence... to stop talking. Oh, that's for the best, because it's different to understand this silence. We are returning to the second agenda: the law on amending the law on hunting. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment took place at the time of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject, which is in print No 185 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u378	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! The joint committees did not support the amendment tabled during the discussion, which is Amendment No 1. The Commission supports Amendments 2, 3 and 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u379	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you, Senator Kazimierz Klein, as the applicant, want to speak again? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 makes it possible for persons with higher forest education or completed postgraduate studies to be included in the list of experts to apply for an assessment of hunting damage. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 31 for, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 removes the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 84 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 aims to clarify the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 makes all provisions relating to the keeping of a list of experts by the competent agricultural authority enter into force 14 days after the announcement. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, one abstention. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 82 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 182 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Alexander Swede, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting yesterday focused on amending the Family Benefits Act and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits. At the beginning of the committee's meeting, a proposal for a law without amendments was adopted, 4 senators voted in favour, 2 against, and it is therefore recommended to adopt this amendment without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u381	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this is the amendment of Senator Marek Borowski. We would not want her to go without an echo, and we maintain his suggestion to regulate the situation of those in need of care whose parents are dead, be deprived of their parental rights, are minors or legitimize themselves with a judgment of a significant degree of disability. This also applies to a situation where a mother or a father raises a child on his own with the judgment referred to in the first paragraph. 1, and there is a need to provide care for another child. It is not a large group of people. It's not a big cost. It's worth the adjustment. I call for this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u383	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you, Senator Marek Borowski, as the applicant, want to speak again? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll wait a little longer. Now I'm asking you to give me the results. 85 senators voted, 54 votes against, 28 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Family Benefits and the Law on determining and paying welfare benefits. We are returning to the fourth item of the agenda: the Anti-Terrorism Act. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Defence, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 203 Z. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Robert Mamytkow, to submit a report to the committee and then a request supported by a minority of joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's committees discussed the proposals made during the debate on 15 June 2016 on the Anti-Terrorism Act and presented the following position to the High Senate. The High Senate is ready to accept the proposals set out in the section III, subsections 1, 9, 10, 12 and 20, 22 and 26. In addition, the committees inform that Senator Piotr Florek withdrew his request in Section III 27. That was the committee's report. And now let me report to the minority, as your marshal said... [[The minority proposal is to present Senator Florek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u385	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. I have indeed read that I am asking for a report from the committee and then a proposal supported by a minority of joint committees, but it is Senator Florek who is the rapporteur for the minority. So I'm sorry. And now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Piotr Flork, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Due to the failure to accept these key amendments during the committee's meeting, especially this first important amendment, that citizens of the Republic of Poland are not treated the same as for example. The citizens of the European Union, and other amendments that Senator Klich has said extensively about these, are a request for rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u387	Thank you. Senator Mammoths. Please, I ask you to present a minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u388	As a representative of the minority of the committee, I request that the bill be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u389	Good. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Przemysław Terminski, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Piotr Florek submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Bogdan Klich was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on National Defence. I would remind you that Senator Piotr Florek withdrew the application contained in point III, Section 27, in print No 203 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 28 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Anti-Terrorism Act. We return to the discussion of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 200 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u390	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The joint committees recommend rejecting the proposal to reject the law, adopting the amendments of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment of the previous day, and rejecting the amendments tabled in today's plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u391	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Władysław Komarnicki and Senator Waldemar Bonkowski. I can't see, I can't hear the calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Dowhan's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 includes municipal waste in the definition of biomass. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 52 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Correction denied. Amendment 2 deletes the definition of a dedicated multi-fuel combustion plant. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 49 against. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 3, 15 and 26 should be voted on together. They eliminate the concept of energy wood. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 33 were in favour, 53 against. [[Voting No 14]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 4 clarifies the role of the energy cluster coordinator. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendments 5 and 30 should be voted on together. Amendments 5 and 30 introduce a system of drains for settlement with prosumers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Amendments 5 and 30 were rejected. Amendment 6 extends the definition of prosumer to economic operators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 6 was rejected. Amendment 7 sets the settlement with prosumer for one to one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 55 against. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 8 introduces the possibility of accounting for energy other than three-phase energy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 55 against. [[Voting No 19]] Correction denied. Amendment 9 deletes the unnecessary word. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted... However, 84 senators voted Some people are allowed to vote. 79 was for, 5 was against. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 10 stresses that the energy to be cleared is not subject to excise duty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 11 transfers the provision on the rights of Prosumers producing electricity from agricultural biogas to the appropriate chapter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 84 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 11 was accepted. Amendment 12 moves energy clusters and energy cooperatives to the right chapter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted. Now Amendment 13. It amends the reference to the provisions of energy law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 were against, 2 against. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 ensures terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted... But 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 16 deletes the provision limiting the acquisition of certificates of origin for electricity from multi-fuel combustion plants. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 56 against. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 17 empowers the Energy Minister to issue a regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 27]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 18 allows electricity to be transferred between different categories of energy auctions from renewable energy sources. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 19 improves the reference to the provision setting out the international agreement. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 20 deletes the provision requiring a separate reference price for electricity from a multi-fuel combustion plant. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 56 against. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 21 improves the reference to the provision setting out intervention auctions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 22 clarifies the provision by indicating that the deadline is set for calendar years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 22 improves the reference to the rule... [[Voices from the Chamber: Amendment 23.]] No. 23, yes. Amendment 23 improves the reference to a provision specifying the scope of the information provided by the payer to the RES fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 30 for, 55 against. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 24 gives the word the appropriate grammatical form. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 25, 28 and 33 move regulation on the purchase of heat from renewable energy installations to the Regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 27 correctly sets out the marks of the act under penalty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 29 deletes the definition of the concept not used in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 30 was voted out. Amendment 31 restores the existing rules for the calculation of the transitional fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 28 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 32 amends the transitional provision concerning certificates of origin for energy from agricultural biogas. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 35 against, 49 against. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 34 correlates the entry into force of the substantive and transitional provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 56 votes against, 28 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and some other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 194 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and presented a report on the matter; it is published in print No 204 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Health Committee recommends the adoption of a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u393	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Tomasz Grodzki, as the applicant, still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u394	Mr. Marshal, I stand by the motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u395	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on Senator Tomasz Grodzki's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 29 for, 56 against. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 54 for, 29 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Tax Administration Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate printing No 205 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 55 for, 27 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Tax Administration Act. We return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 60th anniversary of Poznań June 1956. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution, contained in print No 135 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on celebrating the 60th anniversary of Poznań's June 1956. We return to the discussion of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution amending the resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution, contained in print No 199 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 55 for, 28 against. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution amending the resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 20th Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will be held on 23 and 24 June 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to two addressees, to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Witold Waszczykowski. Dear Mr. President, Dear Minister, 25 years ago, on 17 June 1991, a treaty was signed in Bonn between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany with good neighbourhood and friendly cooperation. They signed under it, from the Polish side, Jan Krzysztof Bielecki and Krzysztof Skubiszewski, from the German side of Helmut Kohl and Hans-Dietrich Genscher. These close to 25 years of the Treaty's validity It is a period of powerlessness, apparent actions, talkiness, lack of perception of real problems on the part of Poland, and domination, arrogance, hypocrisy and insolent exploitation of Polish weaknesses on the part of Germany. For 25 years the Republic of Poland has agreed to a clear asymmetry to its disadvantage in terms of both content and implementation of treaty provisions. As to the content of the Treaty, it is Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Treaty deals with the concept of German minority in the Republic of Poland and persons in the Federal Republic of Germany who have German nationality, which are of Polish origin or admit to the language, culture or Polish tradition. This lack of the concept of Polish minority in Germany in the Treaty already in itself demonstrates the unequal relations between Poland and Germany. International politics is a world of symbols. Inequality is a symbol of dependence and limitation of sovereignty. In addition, this inequality also has a negative effect on Poland and Poles, i.e. the absence of a Polish minority among the national and ethnic minorities recognised by the RFN under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, and this in turn causes concrete negative phenomena: the lack of German support for Poles in Germany, while the privileges and means of protecting them are in Germany, based on this framework convention, groups such as the Danes, Serbo-Georgia, Frisians, Sinti and Roma. The second real negative effect is the refusal to restore the status of the Polish national minority in Germany, which it lost in 1940 on the basis of discriminatory Nazi law, so-called. Order of Göring. The German Government is now maintaining the effects of the law adopted by the Third Reich and does not recognise the Polish minority on its basis, nor does it return the property plundered by the Nazis. This outrageous position is justified by the fact that Poles with historical pre-war roots, which is not true, do not live in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, because descendants of members of the Polish Union still live in the Federal Republic of Germany. How and when Mr. President Mr. Minister, as the case may be. It intends to remove from the text of the Polish-German Treaty this apparent lack of symmetry, which results in the negative phenomena described above for Poles in Germany, but also in the unequal status of Poland towards Germany? When will the Polish authorities, responsible for its foreign policy, finally rise from their knees and lead to a state of change of the Treaty in accordance with the Polish law? As regards the implementation of the Treaty, it is Article. 20 in the remaining paragraphs, from 2 to 4, and Article. 21, despite different terms, give, at least on a blank basis, the same rights to Poles in Germany and Germany in Poland. But only on paper. In fact, aid to Poles residing in Germany, granted by the German state, is a small fraction of what Germany has obtained and obtained in Poland, despite the much larger number of German Polonia and the economic strength of the Federal Republic of Germany. It is all the more surprising that the German government is reluctant to comply with the treaty provisions, planned and purposefully constantly ignoring the Treaty provisions, covered with empty promises and phrases about Polish-German reconciliation and the community of interests. How and when Mr. President Mr. Minister, as the case may be. Will it lead to the full implementation by Germany of the provisions signed by them and ratified by the Treaty? What tools and international institutions do you intend to use for this purpose, especially since the present twenty-fiveth anniversary of the signing of the Treaty is a great opportunity to review the implementation of its provisions? Instead of the ritual and obscuring reality of the officials, politically correct ceremonies proving the epic friendship of the German-Polish people, I propose a clear formulation of our Polish interests and consistent with the spirit and letter of the treaty their enforcement. I'd like to express my respects. Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-16-senat-20-2.u397	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 20th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 225. The 20th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 19 minutes 55]]
