ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Peter Lukasz Babiarz and Daniel Milewski to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u2	Today, the Commission will meet: - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the votes, - Physical culture, Sports and Tourism - immediately after the end of the votes, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.15 a.m. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: privatised hospitals - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Gubin-Broda energy-mine complex and copper decks in the Odrzańskie Bytom region - hour 11.15, - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities, together with the Parliamentary Group. Care for Independent Persons - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Kresów, Kresowian and the Heritage of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic - hour. 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u3	Thank you very much. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted draft resolutions: - on the celebration of the 60th anniversary of Poznań June 1956, - on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of the protests of workers against communist rule in Radom, Ursus and Płock in June 1976. The designs are 655 and 656 prints. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear the opposition, and I do not hear the opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposal. High Sejm, I would like to welcome here the participants of these historical events who are listening to our deliberations. They are from Poznań, Radom, Ursus and Płock. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you. Have a seat. The list of candidates for members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals was delivered in print No. 638. The opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights was delivered in print No 646. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 60th anniversary of Poznań's June 1956 (print No 655). I would ask your fellow Members to rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the text of the draft resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on celebrating the 60th anniversary of Poznań June 1956. On 28 June 1956 in Poznań, the workers of the Cegielski factory, as well as other factories stopped their work and went out on the streets. They were chanting social and anti-communist slogans. In front of the building of the Voivodeship Committee of the PZPR, some 100,000 gathered. People. In the face of the helplessness of the authorities, the protesters invaded the building and then seized the prison, the courthouse and attacked the symbol of the then power - the headquarters of the Security Office. Tanks and battle vehicles entered the city to suppress the protests. Fights have begun, which have lasted all day. 74 people were killed, about 1,000 were injured, hundreds arrested, beaten and humiliated. Poznan June is one of the decisive protests of society in the fight for freedom. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 60th anniversary of the Poznań Uprising in 1956 pays tribute to its heroic participants. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on celebrating the 60th anniversary of Poznań's June 1956. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of protests by workers against communist power in June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock (print No 656). High Seym! [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 40th anniversary of protests by workers against communist rule in June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock. In June 1976, once again Poles openly opposed communist power in Poland. There was a wave of strikes and street demonstrations across the country. As a result of the drastic increase in food prices introduced by the government, on 25 June 1976 several Polish cities appeared on the streets of Poland. At least 80,000. employees of industrial plants. In Radom alone, at the climax, more than 25 thousand participated in the demonstrations. People. Protests, especially those in Radom and Ursus, were brutally pacified, and power called their participants 'warts'. Arrested and arrested were subjected to cruel repression. They were treated with so-called 'health paths', they were beaten, imprisoned, kicked out of work. Many have been disabled, often without means of life. Several dozens of people received prison sentences without suspension, even up to 8 and 10 years old. Among the victims was also Fr. Roman Kotlarz, who blessed the laborer's march, for which he was murdered by security. Guilty of repression has escaped responsibility, and the communist crimes have expired. The retaliation of the communist authorities was additionally directed against the city itself, Radomi, whose development was deliberately stopped. The protests in 1976 directly contributed to the establishment of the Workers' Defence Committee and subsequent democratic opposition organisations. They created the basis for building solidarity between all social groups in Poland. On the 40th anniversary of the protests of 25 June 1976 in Radom, Ursus and Płock, the Polish Parliament pays tribute to demonstrators and victims of repression and their families. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on celebrating the 40th anniversary of the protests of workers against communist rule in Radom, Ursus and Płock in June 1976. We are returning to the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 565-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u4	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a report on the work of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print No 556. The project entered the Sejm on 24 May 2016. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 2 June, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The committee held its first reading at its meeting on 9 June. The position of the government was presented by Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, Minister of Science and Higher Education. On 21 June, the committee re-examined the amendments tabled. Five amendments were positively assessed. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u5	There you go. As we have heard, we will vote on the amendments. We will vote on the amendments first. Amendments 1 to 9 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on Higher Education. In the first amendment to Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose that the decision of the university senate referred to in that provision be taken taking into account labour market needs. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. [[And the motion for rejection?]] I remind the High House that we are talking about printing 565. [[That's not the bill.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 163 Members voted against - 261, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 8 applicants propose to repeal paragraph. 7 and 8. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 399 Members voted against - 26, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 11a the applicant in the new wording of paragraph. 3 propose among others: new rules for assessing the quality of education. Amendments 4 to 7 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 3 to 7 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 429 Members voted against - 7 and no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the measures referred to in that provision. Amendment 12 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 8 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 434 Members voted against - 2 nobody abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 9th amendment to the article. Article 191b (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Amendment 10 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. The 50th Law on Research Institutes proposes that research and technical staff be subject to periodic evaluations at least once every 2 years. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 35 Members voted against - 402, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 565, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 433 Members voted against - 3 nobody abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 614-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law amending the Education System Act and some other laws from print No. 559. The 21st session of the Sejm on 21 June 2016 held a second reading of the draft law. 19 amendments and one proposal were tabled during the second reading... 18 amendments and one proposal to reject the project in its entirety. Therefore, the Sejm re-directed the draft to the committee in order to examine the proposal and the amendments submitted. After considering the proposal and the amendments, the Commission proposes that the proposal to reject the proposal in its entirety be rejected, 11 amendments are accepted and 7 are rejected. I ask the High Sejm to accept the committee's recommendation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u7	Thank you very much. As we've heard, there are committee conclusions. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission is asking, as we have heard, to reject this proposal. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. At the moment, the question is being asked by the Members. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club. Then Mrs Marzena Machalek. Yeah, it's time to ask a question... Member, is 1 minute enough, right? That's enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u8	One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u9	One and a half minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft amendment is another example of how you treat local governments, how you treat the Polish state as a private, orwellian farm, in the end how you treat Polish education. I would like to remind you that, at first reading, the PS Members brought amendments that practically go beyond the scope of the revision of this law. And that is not only our opinion, but also the opinion of the Legal Office of the Sejm. In fact, you are overturning all the records regarding the influence of the local government on the functioning of education. You are unceremoniously taking away the powers of the local government by giving it responsibilities, and you are doing all of this without consulting the local authorities. You want to destroy self-government, which means nothing to you. After all, you love centralization and management from the back seat by the president. [[How do you know?]] You want to politicize schools, you want to decide who's gonna be the headmaster of the school, and even approve an organizational sheet. Nothing matters to you but absolute power. But if you'd like to... [[How do you know?]] ...politicize the Polish school... Think about it. Don't go that way. My skin suffers when I think about what other pseudoreform state you are preparing for the Polish school. [[You can't see.]] Leave her alone. You've already made your decision on six-year-olds once. And what did it turn out to be? Three-year-olds have no place in kindergartens and 7,000. Teachers will lose their jobs. But we're still giving you a chance to prepare an amendment, not on your knees. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Support our motion to reject the project and prepare [[♪ The bell ♪]] a good bill after consulting local governments and the social side. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u11	Mrs Marzena Machalek, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Marzenka, the whole thing!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This is what total opposition and substantive discussion are like according to the PO. We had this example, no substantive reference to this important, socially needed, expected by parents and precisely by the project authorities. [[Applause]] This is a project expected by the students because they want a real opportunity to appeal against the results of the exams. This project cleans up grants between local governments, because at the moment local governments have to pay back millions, because you haven't sorted them out. [[Yes, sir.]] Finally, this project restores balance, the right balance, between the competences of the lead authority and the supervisory authority. The state cannot evade, as you would like, responsibility for education. We're finally trying to create a way for school heads to stop being hostages to the local government or the local government. We want you to... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: What sits?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Today we respect local governments, but we think that... [[Exactly.]] ...should be balanced, as is the case in Europe, between the managing authority and the supervisory authority. Minister, I ask you to answer the question: What are the consequences? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for students, for local governments and for teachers, will this project be rejected? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u13	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Law and Justice have prepared a project that we could discuss. It contains a provision on the elimination of the sixth grade test, contains good solutions on the possibility of appealing against the results of the Matura, and contains solutions on target subsidies for non-public schools. This is a project that could be discussed. But at the same time, at the committee's meeting, an extra-constitutional solution is added to the solutions that hit the local government, and they are added to it, knowing that the mode in which it is done is unconstitutional. To the comments of the committee's representatives, Mr Terlecki responds in this way: This is the problem that the Constitutional Tribunal will resolve if necessary when it starts working. Ladies and gentlemen, in other words, it is clear that the Constitutional Tribunal has been blocked for this country to include. in such cases, he could not rule. In a situation in which the law on which it could be discussed, the State expressly adds unconstitutional provisions, such a law cannot be adopted. That is why we will reject it in its entirety. [[Applause]] [[It's okay, it's okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u15	Thank you, Member. The Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's actually a very expected bill. Her parents and children are waiting for her, who will be in sixth grade next year. They won't take a meaningless and meaningless test. We're going to save a lot of money, which is why we can create another 18-year-old group of 19-year-olds a democratic opportunity to appeal against the district board's decision on grades and grades. Foreign parents and children are waiting because they had no way of gaining knowledge. At last, local governments are waiting. Your long-term carelessness caused at least PLN 100 million per year, because this project will give the local authorities so much, leaking from the budgets of local governments. There is a state budget waiting because 25 million is the cost of taxing the remuneration of directors of non-public establishments. You haven't noticed this country in many years. You're talking about democracy? But it is precisely the amendment of the Members of the Law and Justice that balances this democracy, respects it and speaks about what the Constitution and the Act say, that there are two partners in the school: the host body, which has three representatives on the competition committee, and the supervisory authority - has two, now it will have three. At the same time, it is a change that has brought great delight, firstly, to pedagogical councils, because we strengthen and introduce an additional member of the pedagogical council, secondly, parents, because it is precisely from social debates that they are almost absent from school. We supported them. There's an additional member of the contest committee. The director will choose the local community. Therefore, I do not see any reason why such hysterical voices should sound so hysterical. And finally - more than 80% My parents decided that a six-year-old was studying at school. At the same time, most 3-year-olds have their place in kindergartens. At the moment, local governments can buy places in private kindergartens with budget money. Ladies and gentlemen, parents decide. It's for them that we have to make good rules. And for a system that was created for children. Please accept this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u17	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 172 votes against - 259, 3 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. Amendments 1 to 15 were tabled in Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Education System Act. In the first amendment to Article. 7 applicants shall propose a different wording of the introduction into the calculation in paragraph. 3 and to add paragraph 3. 4. Amendments 11 to 15 and 18 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. I would like to inform you that the consequences of adopting these amendments will be to amend the Article accordingly. 32 point 3 of the project. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1, 11 to 15, and 18, along with the consequences, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. It voted 231 against - 207, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In amendments 2 to 4, applicants propose legislative amendments. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Questions are raised by Members. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The amendments introduced by the Civic Platform were intended to save the remnants of the EWD system as they were intended to introduce 10% Selected schools exam for a sixth-grader. But we think this solution doesn't really solve anything. We believe that the sixth grade exam, first of all, should remain, should only change the formula, so that it becomes more a school exam, and to a lesser extent a student accompanied by stress. On the other hand, I have not received an answer, and I still do not have it, whether to what extent and to what extent this threatens our budget, that we will have to return the money from the European Union which has been earmarked for the introduction of the EWD system. As far as I know, this is a large amount, it is even talking about over 600 million PLN, and at a time when we have the project's lifetime by 2020, while eliminating the sixth grade test, we are really blowing up the whole EWD project, we can count on Poland having to pay back these funds. The sixth grade exam may not be perfect, in fact in the current formula, caused the schools to begin their vacation, even though it was only April, but it was a good school evaluation system. I would like to ask again why you do not give us an answer, what this may have to do with the financial consequences and what amounts we will have to pay back to the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u19	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. Mrs Krystyna Shumilas is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Just now, a Member of the Civic Platform tried to convince us that the changes in the education that took place in the previous 8 years were excellent. Once again, she mentioned the compulsory school duty for six-year-olds and among others. examination after the sixth grade of primary school. According to the overwhelming majority of specialists, this forced examination didn't really give anything. It caused additional stress for children, parents and unnecessary classification of primary schools. It did not affect the way in which the recruitment to secondary school was carried out. Is therefore maintaining the dentures that the Civic Platform is trying to propose today to 10% Does it make any sense to leave primary schools in Poland for the exam after graduating from primary school? Minister, does the system of compulsory examinations after primary school, even in such a residual form, have any justification? Do we have to continue to stress the children without any need? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u21	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of National Education. Minister, aren't you afraid that the complete elimination of the test after the sixth grade will cause us not to have the opportunity to examine the quality of these schools' work? Let me remind you that the test was so that we could correct what was wrong at school so that we could improve the quality of the school. He didn't judge the school, but he was a teacher's clue. I would like to remind you that the Civil Platform programme had the elimination of the test, but we proposed that in 10% selected schools do a study of learning outcomes, internal, so that as a country we have information about how schools work, and so that on the basis of this information we can build educational policy. Also, what Mrs Lubnauer said, we have an EWD project funded by the European Union, but that is not important - a project that shows the progress that students are making shows whether teachers and students are actually working. Tossing the test completely, typing only some insignificant [[♪ The bell ♪]] the provision that the Central Examination Board will be able to conduct studies does not solve the problem. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u23	Thank you, Member. Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Indeed, those who have participated in the design of educational added value, evaluation, have become accustomed to this tool and find it difficult to recognise that this is a bad tool. Madame, don't worry. The test after the sixth grade was unnecessary. It's a tool. There will be an examination of competence. that's why, so as not to lose the discussion project, which is an educational added value. And I'd like us to think about other projects together. I am at the stage of discussion at the Ministry of Education on the project for PLN 7 million, which has been carried out by 10 people, which is a banking tool and - attention - was used to investigate the demographic explosion. These are my worries. There will be no abandonment of educational added value as long as it is a European project, and we have safeguards, because it will be a diagnostic study. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u25	You're welcome. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 2 to 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 151 voted against - 282 and no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 20zca applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. Two and three. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 415, against - 18, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 6, 7 and 16 propose legislative amendments. We will vote on these amendments together. Questions. Before the questions, I would like to inform you that the committee requests that these amendments be rejected. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform. Then Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister of National Education. Do you respect your words and when you're telling the truth? Are you telling the truth in front of the local authorities, or are you telling the truth in front of the Sejm, or are you telling the truth in front of the teachers? [[And there too.]] 'Cause every time you say something different, those voices don't come out. During a debate organized by local governments, you repeatedly apologized to the local authorities for taking six-year-olds out of schools without consulting local governments and promised the local authorities that you would not make any change regarding local governments without consulting local authorities. Where's your word? Where's your honor? [[Applause]] Today you introduce with your own hands an amendment to the Local Government Act, which does not balance, amendments that say that it is the school curator who will decide everything that happens at school... [[That's not true. That's a lie.]] ...a curator who is a government administration, a curator who seems to be listening to the president, and not, as Mrs Machalek said at the moment of honesty... those who rule the local government... [[Balance.]] ...and which the Member has called a grid. [[Applause]] How can you say [[♪ The bell ♪]] To respect the local community by calling the local government and the people down there a grid? This is really outrageous. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u27	Thank you. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no minister has his Members here, every Member representing the people. [[Applause]] Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor. Later, Mr Dariusz Piontkowski comes forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! In the first part, I have already talked about the mode of making amendments, which we are now talking about, that they should be deleted. I was talking about the fact that it was an out-of-constitutional mode because they were outside the scope of the law. But now I wanted to draw attention to their character. They have a typical centralist character. Once again, the Law and Justice show that they believe that everything should be decided by the government, in this case the government with the help of guardians. After the changes that were introduced at the beginning of the term of office and which caused that if the local government wants to liquidate any school, then it must be the consent of the probation officer, now we have further changes that will make the local government incapacitated. This time it's about the choice of school heads. At present, it is more important that local governments that run institutions can decide about school heads. At the moment, it's mostly up to the curators to decide. But there's also a record that all of them. the organisational sheets of public establishments must also be approved by the curators. The central authority is closer to the local government. Why is it not enough that you are making such changes, they are introducing them without consulting the local government, not at the drafting stage of the law, only in the form of amendments, as if you were afraid to tell the local authorities that they are taking away further powers? Why does the state limit the power of local governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u29	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It is strange that the opposition talks about the liquidation of local authorities in the field of education if the number of representatives of the local government unit and the curator's representatives is evenly balanced: there will be three on both sides; it talks about centralisation, while the number of representatives of those who work in the institution is increasing, because we are increasing the number of teachers and parents' representatives. Is this centralization? Is centralisation a situation in which the school curator, when giving an assessment to the school principal, at the same time consults the local government? Is this centralization? Is centralization an opinion by the curator of the organizational sheet, in which among others. decide whether teachers are prepared professionally to pursue the profession of teacher of a given subject? The state has led to the fact that the Polish state has lost its ability to conduct a uniform educational policy throughout the country for the last 8 years. [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] This policy was conducted in individual local governments: it looked different in Hanna, where all public schools were liquidated, passed on to private entities, and completely different in other parts of Poland. We're trying to make this happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that the Polish state can once again conduct educational policy with the help of a curator. Minister, does this law finally give the Polish state a chance to pursue a uniform education policy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u31	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Marzena Machalek, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A platform called civic doesn't understand what self-government is, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] He doesn't understand what self-government is. [[Why do you insult others?]] [[Yes, sir.]] He doesn't understand that self-government isn't power, it's a community that lives in a given area. [[Applause]] Our changes, for example in the selection of school heads, extend the competences of this community and limit the sovereignty of one or another self-governmentman who often uses the school as a place to campaign. These pathologies we want to prevent. [[Applause]] That is why, of course, the government will have the influence, the same influence that it had before you made the wrong change. [[That's not true.]] It will have influence, there will be representatives of the local government, but there will be more representatives of the supervisory authority. You're confusing power with balance. One more thing. When you do not have total power, you become a total opposition and do not try to discuss substantively - discuss this project, which is so expected... [[By who?]] When you do not have total authority, you become a total opposition, you question that Members can make amendments. Indeed, it was scandalous that, in committee, when Members had tabled amendments, the chairman interrupted the committee meeting because he felt that this could not be the case. So remember that in the name you have a citizen. [[Get to the point.]] This project really strikes a balance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u33	The Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm always telling the truth. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In school, in the system, I am looking for the harmony that you have been disturbing over the past years, the harmony between the needs of the child, the interests of the parents, the safety of the teacher, the responsibility of the director, the money of the host body and the responsibility of the state for the education system, for the education that has been incorporated into the Constitution. [[Applause]] In the case of six-year-olds, the biggest consultation carried out in Poland, not in local corporations, but among citizens - over one million signatures grounded by the Civic Platform and PSL. Ladies and gentlemen, what I think you're forgetting: democracy is also here. If the Member submits an amendment, it means that he has the right to do so. At the same time, neither the Commission nor the Ministry of Education received any complaint from the local government. What kind of government are you if you're making these comments? There is full agreement, joy of this project, because, finally, after 8 years, someone noticed that you need to take care of the money of the local government. And the fact that we need to strengthen pedagogical supervision... They need this and parents, and children, and teachers, they need this director, who is sometimes in the business wedge, because you have to do something cheaper when you interfere with the organizational sheet. Let me give you an example of why pedagogical supervision is needed, among others. in private facilities. [[Get to the point, Minister.]] It is one of the youth educational centers in Poland, where rapes occurred. When the parole officer wanted to go in there to actually diagnose the situation, he heard it was a private business. There is no consent, we are responsible for all children in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u35	Thank you very much. I'm sure we'll all agree that the truth is one. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yes, sir.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6, 7 and 16 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 176 Members voted against - 235, 30 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 8th amendment to the article. 36a paragraph. 6 applicants propose the new wording of point 3. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. One Member raises questions. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform Club. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister, not only do you not always tell the truth, but you often say nonsense. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] One of those nonsenses we had the opportunity to hear at the time of your audit. You said, "No teacher will be fired because we've withdrawn the reform of six-year-olds." [[What does that have to do with the amendment?]] Either it's bullshit, or it's just a lie, because it's already over 7,000. teachers lost their jobs because of this. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about respect for the local government, so tell me: Why didn't you prepare changes that affect the local government at the level of government work on this law, only made all the amendments that are difficult to accept for local governments, only when we were already working in committees? It's just an ordinary fear of self-government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u37	That was not a question, Madam Member. I consider your statement to be a problem, and the word 'bullshit' is just not appropriate here. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 417 against - 21. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. 44zm applicants propose, among others. the addition of a paragraph. 4 and 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is raised by Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u38	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mrs Machalek wants to talk substantively and begins the discussion with the definition of "sitwa". Bravo, I've been used to such a language since the beginning of my term of office. The Sejm Committee on Education, Science and Youth was to deal with the elimination of the sixth grade test. These changes were supported by the Civic Platform because it was one of the points of our electoral programme. Good programs are worthwhile. Everything was going normally until the night came, the favorite time of Law and Justice, except for one minister, until suddenly, between Thursday and Friday, PiS Members sneaked in amendments that restrict the powers of local governments - insidiously not only to Members of the opposition, but above all to local governments. If the Group president hadn't interrupted the meeting, the local government wouldn't even have known about these changes. The Minister spoke of the admiration of her parents. I can already see parents jumping for joy when President Kaczyński chooses their directors. [[Applause]] No one consulted with the mayors, mayors, city presidents. Recently we organized a local government conference in the column room, where there were more than 500 local governments. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not surprised that you're afraid of local governments because you've been kicking them every step of the way from the very beginning. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have one question for the Minister, because at the last meeting... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...you have presented your broad expertise in the field of energy. I know you like to talk about everything. That's why I'd like to ask you kindly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u39	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u40	...to clarify the introductory provision: non-public school...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u41	Thank you very much, Member. [[Time.]] [[Voice from the room: Question!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u42	...a non-public art school can obtain public school privileges. What's this all about? Even the Legislative Bureau couldn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u43	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u44	...to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u45	Thank you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u46	I'm asking you to answer me, ma'am. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u47	Thank you, Commissioner, for this very interesting question with an extremely interesting introduction. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: What right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is a specific approach to reality, because we are talking at the moment about an amendment which gives the Minister of Culture the opportunity to include on the certificate of students in artistic schools information that they have also obtained powers and have completed a certain educational stage also in a general education school. It would seem that an amendment that doesn't cause any controversy, or at least shouldn't wake them up because it makes life easier for students... Suddenly, the Member comes out, separated from the reality, which is talking about some nightly deliberations, although... [[But don't allow yourself to make comments like that.]] ...this amendment was tabled during the day, it was normally processed, no one protested against it. Member, where is reality really? What are you really talking about? [[Applause]] Do you think that artistic school students don't deserve this... [[But in what mode?]] ...to treat them normally so that they also have a chance to complete general education? This is ridiculous. [[Applause]] [[But Members don't ask questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u49	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The vote was 392 against - 45. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 44zz lips. 17 applicants shall propose that the appeal be dealt with within 7 days of the date of its transmission. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question will be asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the O.R.: It's about to start.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project includes the possibility of appealing seniors from the result of written prom exams. Of course we agree on that. We do not question that this possibility should be so that seniors can get to the dream university in good time, with the right result. However, further provisions do not allow this because the State's deadline for cancellation has been extended so much that, in total, if all appeals were passed, it would take one and a half months. In fact, this would make it impossible for school graduates to get to their dream universities at the time they wanted to, i.e. they probably would have to run next year. Our amendment aims to reduce this deadline to 7 days. I don't see the problem, Minister, for you to accept such an amendment. After all, you want to take care of the welfare of our seniors, so please support our amendment and reduce this deadline to 7 days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u51	No, no, that was not a question, Madame. Let's not exaggerate, let's not discuss, in situations where, let's say, these forms are at least inappropriate. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 205 voted against - 233, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 11 to 16 have already been examined. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose to add an article in the draft. 16a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u52	Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-government is pre-war traditions. You consistently, because this is the second act in a dozen hours pushed here, you restore the PRL model, the central policy model, the model of national councils. [[Favorite of you.]] But in 2005, a very important law was adopted on the Commission of the Common Government and the Local Government. In this committee, the co-chairman is Minister Błaszczak on the government side. I have a question, but I have a question for the Prime Minister. How do you abide by the laws, not even by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because you introduce an unconstitutional amendment, an amendment to the parliamentary amendment, you add centralisation by way of a government project, but how do you comply with the Act on the Commission of the Common Government and the Local Government, since you have not consulted the local government? [[Voice from the hall: Yesterday it was.]] Where is the opinion of the Association of Polish Cities - the oldest local government organization in Poland, a pedigree from 1917, which did not exist only in the period of the People's Republic of Poland? Do you want to restore the Polish People's Republic? Introduce the simplest solution instead of this law - change the statute of law and justice and let the decision to cast the directors be made by the political committee of the PiS. [[Applause]] [[Oh, how witty.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u53	That is actually a very interesting suggestion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, Minister, this is... I do not wish to comment on the quality of the statement made by the Member unless the Minister wishes to address the problem because it was not a question, it was an invective. [[As you can be.]] [[Punish me - 5,000, even 10.]] Here you go, Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am merely being honest with the viewers and the hearers, so that they themselves may verify these very unhappy statements. We are talking about the following composition of the competition committee: three persons - the governing body, i.e. the local government, three persons - pedagogical supervision, two persons - the parents' council, two persons - the pedagogical board and three persons - trade unions. I've never seen a more socialized competition committee. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u55	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 420 voted against - 18, 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform. Then you will be Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We do not agree to make changes under dictation of people who have nothing to do with Polish education. We do not agree to the night-time process of the changes that you are afraid to make to the government's submission and to the parliamentary amendments that have nothing to do with the original government submission. Afraid of such actions that they will be considered unconstitutional... [[We're not afraid of anything.]] You have paralyzed the Constitutional Tribunal. If you want to help seniors, why are you making these corrections? [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Self-government is called a grid. Mr. President, I wanted to ask you if you think that's such a bad kind of democracy? [[Voice from the room: Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u57	Madam, please address the questions to the right people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u58	We don't agree to this kind of action. You came out of the PRL, but the PRL didn't come out of you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u59	I remind you, in accordance with the rules of procedure, please contact the right people. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor. The next will be Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mr. Marshal! When I saw this bill, I was hoping for a very substantive, peaceful discussion about what education should look like in the future. It should have been considered whether the sixth grade test was a good or a bad solution. In fact, the lack of it is overturning the EWD system, because the EWD system requires us to have entrance and exit exams. Right now, we do. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's a high school exam. We have an entrance exam - i.e. a middle school exam and an exit exam - which is a high school exam, but we no longer have one for middle school. In this situation, of course, prosthetics can be used in the form of competence tests carried out by junior high school, but they will not provide the same level, will not ensure the externality of the evaluation and will not ensure the real functioning of the EWD system, a system which has its value. However, there are also good solutions, good solutions for seniors, perhaps good solutions for local governments, and this will be seen in the longer term, regarding subsidies. After all, you've been able to do all these good or bad things, but they've allowed a substantive discussion to spoil the procession. This law was created in March, for several months was in the ministry and could be subject to consultation. In the original version of the law, you had opinions of local governments, and yet in an unconstitutional manner you added amendments that changed it. They changed it with regard to local governments. And you no longer had an opinion on these amendments. And when the opinion came up, it was negative. Why didn't you allow a substantive discussion by adding records that were completely incompatible with the constitution? Or at least their mode. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u61	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. The next will be Mr Krystian Jarubas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question is primarily addressed to the Minister of Education, but probably to all of us. If we do not pass this law, do we want the students after their graduation exam to have no right to appeal against the sometimes hurting decision of the examiner? You haven't been able to settle this in eight years, and now you're criticizing us for it. If we do not pass this law, will we lead to the passing of the sixth grade exam after the sixth grade of primary school, which is completely unnecessary, and everyone is clearly talking about it? If we do not pass this law, will we lead to the fact that a disabled student coming to school during the school year will not be able to use textbooks and school aids? Is that what you want? Do you want those who use non-public school funding in an illegal manner to continue to do so so that it cannot be cut off and that the State Treasury can finally normally spend this money as intended? Don't you want Poles who come back from abroad and want to learn in Polish schools to normally join this teaching so that foreigners who come to our country and want to learn Polish can't do it? [[You're full of shit.]] This is the discussion about whether we want the education system you've destroyed over the last eight years to finally reform or not. [[I don't think you know what you're talking about.]] Minister, is this bill necessary? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u63	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u64	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr Kalet! It is no secret that the amendment proposed by the PiS is a foretaste of what it plans, i.e. the liquidation of secondary schools. [[Applause]] However, there is not even any timetable for the planned reform so far. So before that happens, there's a question of changing the exam for tests, as I remember correctly, diagnostics. Teachers fear that this change is primarily about putting the responsibility from probation to school heads. How much responsibility will be placed on probation after shift? Ladies and gentlemen, do you think a good self-government is a subordinate self-government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Krystian, you need a test.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u65	However, I would say that you have a remarkable intellectual achievement. [[Touchdown, fun in the hall, applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: It is not suitable for the marshal.]] Please, you have the floor of the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. However, I would ask Members to leave such statements to themselves for parliamentary statements, not during a substantive discussion of the draft amendments. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Laws do not lie in the Ministry of Education, but according to the law they are consulted, generally. Indeed, cooperation with local governments was excellent because they saw a lot of places, issues that the previous government did not see coming, and where they simply could not get along with non-public institutions that were pulling out money. This could not be verified in any way. So she wasn't lying, she was consulted. That's one thing. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, there was a joint government and local government committee meeting. Once again she confirmed her great approval of the bill, which she co-created. That's one thing. Secondly, there was indeed a discussion on the parliamentary amendment, but when they heard that the parliamentary offices, Members - and in social debates - received such recommendations to socialise the competition committee, and that it would indeed be planned in a major change in 2017, they accepted. Where more can local governments be expected to agree to the actions of the Polish government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u67	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 614, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 265, against - 172, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on retail tax. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Members raise questions. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. The next will be Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform Club has requested that the bill on retail tax be rejected at first reading. However, before the High House votes in favour or against this proposal, I would like to ask for an answer to the question. This answer is particularly needed by the Members of the Law and Justice, because the entire opposition of your law condemned yesterday in a cockroach. I ask for an answer from Minister Kowalczyk because I do not believe that such a bad bill was created in the Ministry of Finance. Minister, please tell the High House whether you are imposing a trade tax only on foreign trade networks and hypermarkets, which are in the hands of foreign capital, as you announced in the election campaign, or you are imposing a trade tax on Polish trade networks and also on Polish capital. I mean, are you lying to Poles again? Minister, I'd like a clear answer. Will the trade tax pay Polish shops? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u69	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. The next will be Jerzy Kozłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Club The modern one also requested that this project be rejected in its entirety, because it seems to me that this was not the case for you. There was supposed to be a tax on hypermarkets, today we are introducing solutions that will make Polish trade so that some large international networks will not pay this tax, and the average Polish origin shops will have to pay this tax. We propose that you really consider whether you want to introduce such a project. The second problem we see. I have a question for the Minister: Are we going to introduce all taxes in Poland so that we will first spend and then wonder how many of them will affect the budget? Because in the state budget for this year we have 2 billion zlotys from this tax, and only 1/4 of this amount will be paid. I am so taught to manage Polish... my home budget, that I try to have money first and then spend it, because otherwise it will create a big debit in my account. I wonder what kind of debit you will lead Poland to in this way of management. I also have a request for your marshal. It seems to me that your role is not to review the statements of Members, but to conduct the proceedings of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u71	Thank you very much for this last remark, Madam President. Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Mr Adam Abramovich is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A year ago, during the election campaign, the Prime Minister often criticized the current power for not doing anything for Polish entrepreneurs, but making their lives difficult by introducing new taxes, danin. So what else is this project, but not another obstruction of life for Polish companies? Why? Polish trading networks RTV Euro household or Saturn have monthly revenues exceeding 250 million. By all means, your progressive scale in this case will cover these brands, these shops, these owners' interest rates of 1.4%. If you look at the ownership structure of the competitor in this electronics market, the German company Media Markt, its structure is that he will not pay this rate. So your tax, which was to be applied to western networks not paying tax in Poland, is de facto aimed at Polish commercial networks that deal with electronic commerce. In view of what I said earlier, I have a question to the government: Has the government analysed the revenues of the most recognizable Polish commercial networks on the electronics market and is aware that this tax in this form will be [[♪ The bell ♪]] really targeted at these networks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u73	Please. Mr Adam Abramovich, the Law and Justice have the floor. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for Minister Wiesław Janczyk. Is it true that a very large amount of exemption, 17 million a month, will not pay all small and medium-sized shops and all small and medium-sized commercial networks? Is it true that from the Polish market approx. 5 thousand decrease annually. Small and medium-sized stores? Is it true that this makes life difficult for Poles by limiting their convenience of shopping near home? Does this work against producers by closing their alternative distribution channels and condemning them to the dictatorship of large commercial networks? Is it true that income taxes are mainly paid by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and large networks avoid them? Will small and medium-sized shops exempt from this tax be a brake on price increases in a competitive market? Is it true that large networks will not be able to charge this tax to suppliers, because in the case of blackmail from large networks producers will be able to sell their goods in a free-of-tax channel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u75	Please. Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to express my great outrage at the way your Marshal conducts his deliberations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u77	Mr President, ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u78	Mr. Marshal, although he is a Marshal of the Sejm, he is equal to us as Primus inter pares, so we would like to ask... [[Yes, sir.]] ...for a recess, for the marshal to consider...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u79	Mr President, you are deviated from the agenda set out on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u80	...that there is no reason to judge the intellectual level of Members' statements...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u81	I'm bringing you up to speed. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u82	... because Members have sufficiently assessed the intellectual level...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u83	Mr President, I would like to refer you to the matter again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u84	...Mr. Marshal, laughter salvos often reward. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u85	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in this way, you are forcing me to submit proposals in the previous term in order to clarify the discussion, but which may end in the fact that Members will be less entitled to raise questions... [[Don't threaten us, Marshal.]] ...be formal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I repeat, these are proposals made in the previous term by the then government majority. [[Applause]] It's not like you can afford to say things like here that lower the prestige of the Sejm. At the moment, I have only one problem, because Minister Wiesław Janczyk is duly authorized by the government to answer this matter. [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Every constitutional minister can.]] Minister, are you ready? Minister of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u86	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that all the thesis in Mr Abramowicz's questions are true. They discuss, in such a condensed form, the benefits of introducing a retail tax discussed for a very long time, very precisely and socially consulted to a very advanced degree. I would like to thank all those who have submitted their proposals and proposals for this regulation, which has now been submitted by the government to the Sejm. I am quite calm about the fact that this tax in this formula we propose has excluded many controversy and disputes that may have arisen after its introduction. It is essentially fulfilling the request of Law and Justice, which has been reported during the electoral campaign. It makes everyone up to a certain amount of revenue benefit from the same relief both at the first threshold of 0.8% for the amount of revenue greater than PLN 17 million and less than PLN 170 million per month, and for the amount of revenue above PLN 170 million per month, which is subject to a tax rate of 1,4%. It's going to be equal for all entities. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the amount of income from this tax, we plan that next year this amount will be equal to 1.9 billion gross, this year it will amount to around 600 million if this tax is introduced on 1 August. We hope, however, that the Sejm, the High Chamber, as I ask, will continue to work on this regulation and that the work will be completed very quickly. I move that the project be reassigned for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u87	The Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, Henryk Kowalczyk, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In Mrs Leszczyna's question, there was a charge that we tax Polish shops instead of others. Knowing very well, I hope, European law, you know that in any law, whatever, there can be no distinction that we tax Polish, foreign, any other. [[You lied during the campaign.]] Of course, such a solution is impossible, but given the income criteria... [[Game in the O.R.]] If the Members of the Platform can count anything, please listen carefully for at least half a minute. We're offering income criteria... [[It's for business.]] ...profits for which individual tax limits apply. So, first, 17 million a month, or 200 million a year, is the first tax scale and 170 million a month, or more than 2 billion a year, is the second scale. Find companies that have an annual turnover of over 2 billion. Intelligent people should look at the turnover of companies and see how this tax is directed. [[Applause]] Hence, it is very clear that small shops, and whether Polish or otherwise, are actually exempt from this tax. That's the first thing. [[Applause]] And another matter that concerns the budget, the expenses. There was a question about how we spend first and then we make income. I would like to state that in the first 4 months of this year productivity growth, the increase in tax revenues was 3.8 billion PLN higher than the same period of the previous year. Higher by PLN 3.8 billion. [[Applause]] Indeed, the plan plans to increase tax revenues by PLN 6 billion throughout the year, i.e. more than 60% of tax revenue growth has been completed within the first 4 months. So without this tax, we will carry out budget revenue, budget expenditure, and this tax will, of course, be another budget injection, mainly for the years to come. It's just to clarify the tax situation. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u89	Mrs Izabela Leszczyna in mode? [[Corrections.]] Corrections, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You didn't understand my question. I didn't ask if they would pay small or large, I asked if they would pay Polish trade. The Minister did not go through the throat saying straight: yes, we impose a tax on Polish trade, we lied to Poles in the election campaign. [[Applause]] Then I must say this for the Minister. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[You should know that.]] Minister, the question actually arises: did you not know EU law in the election campaign? Didn't you know then that no tax is to be applied only on foreign capital? So how do you even want to rule this country if you don't know EU law and you're cheating on taxes? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]] The conclusion is: Law and Justice imposes another tax on Polish capital. Once again, it turns out that you lied in the election campaign and lied to Poles all the time. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Iza!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u91	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska is being corrected. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Minister didn't understand my question either. I didn't ask if there was any way you could fill in the hole after this tax, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because once you get lucky and once you don't, but whether we'll spend all our taxes first and then wonder what formula they'll have. That was my question. Five thousand more, by the way. small shops make money, but the Member forgot to say that the margin, the difference in margin between small shops and large networks is that this tax will not protect them anyway. In addition, suppliers who supply goods to the network and lose their contracts, because the networks will leave the position of force, will also translate their additional costs into small wholesalers and shops, and in fact this bill will not protect any small or medium-sized business. If you would like to defend small or medium-sized business, our CIT reduction law has been in this House since 10 February, but you do not really want to do so. You need money for your electoral promises and transfer money from the right to the left pocket of Poles, pretending to give something to Poles, and in fact you charge Poles with additional taxes, because Poles will pay this tax, customers, suppliers and subcontractors of commercial networks, not commercial networks. You know that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u93	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print 615 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 200 Members voted against - 233, 7 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Selection of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals (prints 638 and 646). High Izbo! The Sejm shall appoint, in accordance with Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2 of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, five members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr Sławomir Ryszard Cenckiewicz, Mr Ludwik Dorn, Mr Jan Draus, Mr Piotr Franaszek, Mr Andrzej Friszke, Mr Bogdan Lis, Mr Józef Marecki, Mr Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński, Mr Henryk Wujc and Mr Krzysztof Wyszkowski were nominated as members of the college. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to present the nominations of Mr Sławomir Ryszard Cenckiewicz, Mr Jan Draus, Mr Piotr Franaszek, Mr Józef Marecki and Mr Krzysztof Wyszkowski submitted by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour and pleasure to present the Parliamentary Club's Law and Justice candidates for members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. High Izbo! Mr. Prof. Dr. Hab. Sławomir Ryszard Cenckiewicz was born on July 20, 1971 in Gdynia. He is a historian, publicist, academic lecturer, professor of WSKSiM in Toruń. The son of Janina from the house of Kubiak and Richard Cenckiewicz. He graduated from the Institute of History at the University of Gdańsk. In 1997 he defended his master's thesis under the direction of Prof. Roman Wapiński on the basis of a hearing of the Generalization of the left-liberal opposition in the Polish People's Republic (protected with the distinction of the rector). In 2003 at the Institute of History of the University of Gdansk he defended his doctoral thesis on the basis of a hearing entitled: Tadeusz Katelbach. Political biography (promotored by Prof. Roman Wapiński). Between 2003 and 2006 he was an assistant at the Institute of History of the University of Gdańsk. In 2001 and 2006 he was an employee of the Branch Office of Public Education of the Institute of National Remembrance in Gdańsk. From July to November 2006, he worked at the Office for the Distribution and Archiving of Documents of the Institute of National Remembrance in Warsaw. In February 2007, he took over the position of head of the Branch Office of Public Education of IPN in Gdańsk, which he held until September 2008. He specializes in the history of the People's Army of Poland, communist secret services, Polish political emigration, American Polonia, resistance and anti-communist movement in the Polish People's Army. He did research in England and the United States. He was a two-time scholar of the Polonia Aid Foundation Trust in London (in 2002 and 2004). In 2000 he received a grant from the Kościuszko Foundation in New York. Between 2005 and 2007, he was a scholar of the Free Speech Foundation in Chicago. From 2003 to 2005 he was the secretary of the editorial office of the Scientific Yearbook of Independence (in Warsaw). Since 1999, he has also been a member of the Council of Communication for Research on Polonia. He is the author of about 200 scientific, popular scientific and source publications. He published many books, among others.: With the eyes of security. Sketches and materials from the history of the security camera PRL. Arcana (II prize in the literary competition Józef Mackiewicz in 2005 and a distinction in the literary competition. Brutus in 2005), Tadeusz Katelbach. Political biography, Warsaw 2005,.SB a Lech Wałęsa. The reason for the biography, Gdansk-Cracow-Warsaw 2008 (together with Professor Gontarczyk), for which the book "Gazeta Polskie" awarded him the title of Man of the Year 2008, "The Lech Wałęsa case," Poznań 2008, "Tests of security and party." College. Sources. Publications, Łomianki 2009, Gdansk December '70, Warsaw 2009, Anna Solidarity. The life and activities of Anna Valentynowicz against the background of the era, Poznań 2010, Long arm of Moscow. Military intelligence of the People's Republic of Poland 1943-1991 (introduction to synthesis), Atomic spy. Ryszard Kukliński and the intelligence war, Lech Kaczyński. Political biography 1949-2005, Poznań 2012 - co-author and President Lech Kaczyński (2005-2010), Warsaw 2016 - co-author. On 22 July 2006, the Minister for National Defence Radosław Sikorski appointed Sławomir Cenckiewicz as President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Liquidation of Military Information Services. It served until 30 October 2006. During this time he was an advisor to the Deputy Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz, a representative for the organization of the Military Counterintelligence Service. On 5 January 2016, the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz appointed Sławomir Cenckiewicz as Director of CAW and MON representative for the reform of state archives. June 4th this year Sławomir Cenckiewicz became the director of the Military Historical Office. General Kazimierz Sosnkowski. In 2007, President Lech Kaczyński granted Sławomir Cenckiewicz the Silver Cross of Merit. Another candidate I have the honour of introducing is Professor Dr. Hab. Jan Draus, born March 25, 1952 in Kolbuszowa. Between 1971 and 1976, he studied history at the Jagiellonian University, where he received his doctoral degree in 1980. Habilitated in 1994 at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw. He was awarded the scientific title of Professor of Humanities in 2000. He worked at the Higher Pedagogical School in Rzeszów and at the Catholic University of Lublin, at the Higher School of Philosophy and Pedagogic Ignatianum in Cracow, currently Ignatianum Academy, and since 2001 at the University of Rzeszów. Between 2001 and 2012 he served as the Rector of the State Eastern European School in Przemyśl. Editor-in-Chief of Rzeszowski Studies, member of the Scientific Council of the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences, editor-in-chief of Rzeszów Encyclopedia, author of more than 250 scientific publications in the field of recent history and history of science and education, promoter of six PhDs, reviewer of more than 20 doctoral and habilitation works, reviewer in professors, scholar of many foreign foundations. A democratic opposition activist from 1976 to 1980 and a democratic opposition activist from 1980. NSZZ.Solidarity, Chairman of the NSZZ Departmental Commission for Solidarity at WSP in Rzeszów, co-worker of the Underground Regional Executive Commission of NSZZ and Solidarity in Rzeszów, member of the Diocesan Council of Culture, founder of the Civic Committee in Rzeszów, editor-in-chief of the Social quarterly.Ultimatum, weekly San, director and editor-in-chief of Polish Radio and Television in Rzeszów, vice-president of Rzeszów Radio. Between 1991 and 1993 he was a senator of the second term of office of the Republic of Poland and vice-president of the Polish delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Member of the Association of Polish Journalists. Between 1990 and 1999 he was the chairman of the District Crime Investigation Commission against the Polish Nationals in Rzeszów and a member of the Central Crime Research Commission against the Polish Nationals in Warsaw. He was then a member of the College of IPN in Warsaw in the first and second term, the winner of the Rzeszów City Award and the honorary citizen of the city of Rzeszów in 2012. Another candidacy which I have the honour to present to the High House is the candidacy of Prof. Dr. Hab. Mr. Piotr Franaszek. His professional resume has been associated with the Jagiellonian University since the beginning. In 1979 he received a Master's degree in History at the University of History, in 1988 a PhD in humanities in history, and in 1996 a PhD in modern and modern history. In 2003 he received the title of professor of humanities, in December 2013 he was appointed professor of ordinary at the Institute of History of the Jagiellonian University. His affiliation with the school of economic history Prof. Helena Madurowicz-Urbanska determined the original scope of his research interests, focusing mainly on the social and economic history of the 19th and 20th centuries. At the same time, for several years he has been conducting systematic research on the problem of surveillance of universities, especially the Jagiellonian University, by the Security Office in the years of the People's Poland. Taking this direction of research was due to the appointment of Prof. Piotr Franaszek in November 2005 by Prof. Karol Musioła, Rector of the Jagiellonian University, as a member of a team of historians for conducting research on the environment surveillance of the Jagiellonian University by the SB. In turn, the following year he was involved in the work of the National Remembrance Institute. Security apparatus for creative, scientific and journalistic environments in 1944-1989. He led a research team on scientific and academic surveillance and the attitudes of scientists towards the communist authorities. The project is continued with its participation by the IPN. The result of this activity is a lot of collective work, including three under its editing. In 2012, he published his work by the Jagiellonian. The actions of the Security Service towards the Jagiellonian University in the 1980s. For eight editions he served as the chairman of the jury in the competition. Oskara Haleckiego The history book of the year organized by IPN, Polish Television and Polish Radio. For several years now, he has also been working with IPN branches to review their publications. As part of international cooperation, he was a member of several research teams. Between 2004 and 2008 he was the head of the research team of the Institute of History of the Jagiellonian University in a project carried out with eight foreign partners within the framework of 6. The Marie Curie Framework Programme, entitled "Unifying the European Experience: Historical Lessons of Pan-European Development'. One of the effects of this project is the two-volume economic history of Europe published last year. On the other hand, working in an international research team led by Professor Alice Teichowa from Cambridge University resulted in the publication of the book Gap in the Iron Curtain in 2009 - is one of the co-authors. The study carried out within this team aimed to show the flow of information and technology between neutral and communist countries in Europe. Several times he received foreign scholarships, among others. Kościuszkowska Foundation in New York, Lanckoron Foundation in Brzezia, University of Liege. He is the author of more than 120 scientific works, including nine book items, several popular science works and an editor of 20 team works. Between 1999 and 2002 he was vice-director of the Institute of History of the Jagiellonian University and then served as director of the Institute for two terms. He graduated from postgraduate management studies organized by the Polish-French School of Management acting under an agreement between the four universities of Krakow and the Institut d'Administration des Entreprises de l'Universiteté de Lille. Since 2002, he has been head of the Department of Economic and Social History at the Institute of History of the University of Poland. Between 2003 and 2006 he was a member of the Committee of Historical Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences as a representative of the Kraków and Rzeszów community of historians. Since 2007, he has been working with the State Eastern European School in Przemyśl. Another candidate I have the honour of introducing is Professor Dr. Hab. Józef Marecki, born 31 January 1957 in Krosno. Historian, lecturer at the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow and employee of the Kraków branch of IPN. Specialist in archivistics and modern history. It deals with issues related to the widely understood cultural landscape of Europe. He is particularly close to heraldics, numismatics and vexology, falerystics and Christian symbolism. It belongs to many scientific associations in Poland and abroad. He was educated in Krosnie and Rzeszów, where he graduated from the Pedagogical Technical Study. He then began his studies at the Faculty of Theology at the Pontifical Theological Academy - now the Pontifical University of John Paul II - in Cracow, studying simultaneously at the Faculty of History of the Church - now the Faculty of History and Cultural Heritage - where he also completed his doctoral studies and was doctored in 1992. Habilitation in humanities in history was obtained in 2001, 4 years later he became a professor of UP JPII, and in 2011 received a title professor. In 1986 he was ordained priestly in Krakow. After two years of pastoral work in Stalowa Wola, he was assigned to scientific work. Since 1990 he has been professionally associated with the Faculty of History and Cultural Heritage at the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow as an academic lecturer. He then worked as an assistant and assistant at the Chair of Church History in the Latest Times, and then was appointed as head of the Chair of Archives and Auxiliary Sciences, in which he works until now. In addition, since 2002 he has worked as the head of Archivist Studies, Archivistics and Biblioteko-scientist Studies and Postgraduate Studies of Archivists and Libraries. To date, he has promoted about 100 Masters and Bachelors and five Doctors. In addition, he conducted lectures at the University of Silesia, at the Krakow Institute for Development and Education and in higher seminaries of priests affiliated to the University of Papal John Paul II. For his activities in the field of teaching and organization, he was awarded the medal of KEN in 2006 and several times with the distinctions of the rector. In 2006, he took up work at the Division Office of Public Education of the IPN as the chief specialist, focusing his research on repression of the Catholic Church and other religious unions. Co-initiator of the editing of sources and editor of the publishing series of the Church. In 2007, he was awarded the President of IPN for his scientific activities. In addition, he is involved in the archive field by conducting lectures in archivism, organizing trainings for archivists and actively participating in the life of this environment. He was a member of the Scientific Council at the Supreme Directorate of State Archives from the appointment of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, he is a member of the Specialists' Group for Archives at the Church Concordat Commission and a member of the Scientific Council at the Metropolitan Curia Archives in Krakow. He is a member of many associations and research institutions, among others. Commission of the Historical Branch of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Katowice, Polish Historical Society, Association of Polish Archivists, Association of Church Archivists, Polish Theological Society, Institute for the Research of Church Acts in Luck. He collaborated in museums and held a number of advisory functions and led scientific councils. In recent months he has been appointed to the Group for Awards in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and to the Council of the National Humanities Development Programme at the Minister of Science and Higher Education. He published 32 monographs and compact source editions, edited 33 collective works, published nearly 190 scientific articles in Poland and abroad, 70 biographical slogans, over 70 popular science articles. During conferences and scientific sessions, he delivered 206 papers, including abroad 22 and in Poland: 31 at international conferences and 153 at national conferences. It also has 96 popularisations and 50 radio and television recordings. Known in the scouting community as the founder of the independent Scout Stempo of the Forest Tribe in Stalowa Wola - Rozwadow and the Boy Scout pastor, spiritual guardian of sibiraks and veterans' environments in Małopolska. And the last candidate I have the honour of introducing from a group of five candidates. Mr Krzysztof Wyszkowski, born 10 November 1947 in Mrągów, son of Stefan Wyszkowski and Krystyna from the Nowakowska house. From 1954 he attended primary school in Olsztyn, which he graduated from in 1961 and then continued his studies at Secondary School No. 2 in Olsztyn. After 2 years of education, he began working as a physical worker at the age of 16. In 1974 he moved to Gdansk, where he continued his physical work as a carpenter. The residence in Gdansk was used to establish contact with red. Jerzy Giedroyzyk from the Institute of Literature in Paris, who, through secret couriers, handed him publications of Cultures and other emigration centres for further dissemination, among others. in Warsaw and Krakow. During that time, by his friend Tadeusz Kadenace, the grandson of the eldest sister of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, Zofia Kadenacowa, made contact with Joanna Jaraczewska, the granddaughter of the Marshal, who brought him to Poland and gave him the first spirit duplicate on which the first publishing house, which was born, has been reflected since the so-called. constitutional protest in 1975, an open anti-communist movement in the Tri-City. In this way it has already entered into the trend of the Pisudczyk tradition as an obligation to fight for Poland's independence. At that time, the Security Service of the People's Republic of Poland decided against him and his brother Błażej Wyszkowski on an operational matter under the code name "Channel." After the creation of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, he became involved in this environment, and in 1977 he began to cooperate directly with the letter of the Committee on Social Self-Defense of the KOR. He's a worker. In April 1978, he co-founded the Committee of the Founding of the Free Trade Unions of the Coast. Between 1979 and 1980 he also created an underground publishing house, which published political prints, most often for the purposes of WZZ, as well as historical books and works of beautiful literature - all previously not published in the country by Witold Gombrowicz, with the permission of Jerzy Giedroyci. In August 1980, he took part in a big strike in Gdańsk Shipyard and as an unemployed person as a result of his participation in WZZ thanks to his own publishing resources he started printing documents of the Inter-Business Strike Committee and strike leaflets. As of 23 August 1980, he was part of the "Strajkowa Oświadczenie Solidarność" Newsletter. He is the author of this title, whose use as a password for the entire independence movement was planned in 1978. In 1981 he worked as the secretary of the editorial office of Tygodnik Solidarno. On 13 December 1981, he was arrested and imprisoned in Strzebielink. In August 1982, using his hospital stay, he escaped from internment by working with the underground solidarity movement. Following the arrest by the SB on 22 July 1983, he continued this cooperation until the fall of communism in 1989. As a direct observer of the round table, but not a participant, he was accredited as a member of the Video Studio Gdańsk team. He published a critical assessment of the progress and the result of the contract in the "Cultures of Paris." For this reason, he rejected the proposal of the editor Tadeusz Mazowiecki to continue the work of the secretary of the editorial office in the renewed Solidarity Weekend. He returned to the weekly only after the appointment of Jarosław Kaczyński as editor-in-chief of the magazine. During this time, he considered the overthrow of the presidency of Wojciech Jaruzelski as his main task. Therefore, after Jaruzelski's consent to resign from his post, he persuaded Lech Wałęsa to take action for the accelerated presidential elections. As a member of the electoral staff of Lech Wałęsa, he participated in the creation of a political program in which he pushed Poland's accession to the North Atlantic Alliance as the number one goal of Polish foreign policy. After winning the campaign, he rejected Lech Wałęsa's proposal to take up a job at his firm and became an advisor to Prime Minister Jan Krzysztof Bielecki. After a short period of cooperation, he resigned and took action to bring Parliamentary elections as soon as possible. After the election, he accepted the proposal to become an advisor to Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. In 1992, he was actively involved in the work of vetting and decoupling. After the overthrow of Jan Olszewski's government, he returned to the profession of political publicist. Between 1997 and 2000 he worked in the final report of the winding-up commission of the Polish Information Academy, and then at the Polish Information Academy. Since his retirement in 2012, he has sometimes been on the board, and sometimes as a freelancer, he continues his publicist work and remains faithful to this profession until now. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you, High Izbo. I'm asking for the support of the submitted candidates. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u95	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Antoni Mężydła in order to present the candidacy of Mr Louis Dorn presented by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a real honor for me to recommend Louis Dorn as a member of the IPN College. Ludwik Dorn was born on 5 June 1954 in Warsaw. He graduated from the General Education High School. Reytana in Warsaw. In 1978 he graduated from the Faculty of Sociology at the University of Warsaw. In the 1980s and 1990s, he was involved in translating English-language spy novels. He is the author of a series of essays, smaller publications in paper and electronic media. He is also the author of poetry and children's books. He has published two political books in the form of river interviews: the settlements and challenges, and the anatomy of weakness. Since 1976, he has been involved in opposition activities in the Polish People's Republic. He is a signatory of a letter against changes in the Constitution of the Polish People's Republic of 1970 introducing as constitutional principles the role of the communist party and its friendship with the Soviet Union. In 1976, he was involved in helping the repressed workers of Ursus and Radom, and later became an associate of the Committee for the Defence of Workers and the Committee for Social Self-Defense of the KOR. He was a co-worker and then a member of the editorial board of the underground magazine Between 1980 and 1981 he worked at the Centre for Social Research in the Mazowsze region. After the martial law, he was in hiding, being chased by an APB. He edited the monthly "Voices" and the weekly "News" as well as headed the Research and Analysis Centre, which is the underground continuation of the Centre for Social Research. In 1983, he appeared without giving up his conspiracy. Since the fall of 1990 he has managed the Bureau of Analysis at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. Since 1990, he has been a member of the Centre's Agreement to become vice-president of this party in 1992. He was co-founder of the Law and Justice Party, and in 2001 and 2007 he served as vice-president. Since 2008, he has remained non-party. Between 1997 and 2015 he was a Member of the Sejm. Between 2005 and 2007, he served as Minister of Interior and Administration, Deputy Prime Minister and Marshal of the Sejm. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, it can be concluded that Mr.Ludwik Dorn is a perfectly prepared person to serve as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. In the course of his professional and social activities, he demonstrated a high level of substantive knowledge to guarantee the proper exercise of his duties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u97	There you go. Mr Rafał Grupiński will speak at the moment in order to present Mr Andrzej Friszke's candidacy presented by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am undoubtedly honored to present Professor Andrzej Friszke's candidacy as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Professor Andrzej Friszke, who has been associated with the University of Warsaw since the beginning of his scientific career, graduated from the Historical Faculty of the University in 1979. He's been involved in the opposition movement since the late 1970s. In 1981, he became an editor of the historical section of the Tygodnik Solidarno and from the year of the next - 1982, the historical section of the monthly magazine, and a member of the college of this magazine, he remains one to this day. Professor Andrzej Friszke worked very closely with Parisian culture before 1989. In 1983, he published the monograph "December 1970" under the pseudonym Zygmunt Korybutowicz in the series of publications of the Institute of Literature. He has also published historical reviews and materials in the historical collections at the Paris Culture. In 1990 he became an employee of the Institute of Political Studies of the Polish Academy of Sciences at the Department of Latest Political History. He has been Professor since 2010 and since 2009 Head of the Department of Latest Political History. He is primarily the author of many historical works, [[Game in the O.R.]] including many monographs, monographs, mainly the movement of democratic opposition in Poland, as well as the Solidarity movement. Its probably the biggest monographic work is the "Solidarity Revolution" 1980-1981. It's a huge monograph of over 1,000. pages described the history of this largest non-violence movement in Europe, which contributed to the overthrow of the iron curtain, the overthrow of the Berlin Wall. Among other things, among his publications it is worth to mention such works as: "Political opposition in the Polish People's Republic of 1945-1980," i.e. the development of the entire history of post-war Poland, also publications about political life of emigration, two very interesting publications about the intellectual life of Catholic intelligence in Poland, one is the history of the Catholic Intelligence Club in Warsaw, and the other about the young Catholic intelligence, recently, because last year, published. Professor Andrzej Friszke has also published a monograph "Adam Ciołkosz" - a portrait of the Polish socialist, as well as - I think that in an excellent way - he illustrated the history of political activity, the social Jack Curonia, for example in his work "Jacek Kuroń" and the genesis of Solidarity, although also in the Solidarity Revolution, Jacek Kuroń is one of such heroes leading a kind of narrative, his fate is a way to lead the main, fundamental threads of our latest history. Next to this, I think you can and probably worth mentioning and the fact that Prof. Andrzej Friszke described the history of the famous circle Mark in the Polish Parliament. From 1999 to 2006, the professor was a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, and since 2011 he is a member of the Board of National Remembrance, elected as you remember, in such a way that the Sejm was only at the end of the whole process, i.e. through historical councils and councils of historical and legal departments of the largest universities in Poland. It is a pity that you have changed this bill about the Institute of National Remembrance that you once slept with. Adam Rybicki carried out and modified. I think that formula was better when it comes to choice. Without a doubt, looking at the entire achievements of Professor Andrzej Friszke, also his work for the Institute of National Remembrance from the very beginning of the existence of this institute, he is certainly perfectly prepared to serve as a member of the college. And I recommend to the very High House that this candidacy be voted in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u99	Please. At the moment, Mr Andrzej Halicki will be speaking in order to present Mr Bogdan Lisa's candidacy presented by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, it is my honor to present Bogdan Lisa's candidacy as a member of the National Remembrance Institute College. We all know Bogdan Lisa, and I don't have to justify it for long. It is a legend of the movement of Solidarity, an activist and a long-standing active defender of human rights and a person who fought for freedom and democracy in Poland. He was born in 1952 in Gdansk and was very active from the youngest years. In the '70s, in the late '70s, he co-founded a free trade union. This move... Without this group of people there would be no strike in Gdańsk Shipyard. In 1980, he was the initiator of the strike at Elmor's Gdansk facilities, later in the Inter-Business Committee of Solidarity, working closely with the leader of the Lech Wałęsa strike, he was one of his leaders. He was a member of the NSZZ Interim Coordination Committee in the war, arrested in 1984, sentenced in 1986, released by amnesty. Bogdan Lis was a member of the Citizen's Committee on Solidarity, participated in the round table and was also a senator of the Republic of Poland in the first post-election in 1989. He was then Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He returned to Parliament in the sixth term of the Sejm and was a member of the sixth term of office. From 2000 to 2007, he was the President of the Solidarity Foundation. Now he's an entrepreneur, he doesn't act politically, but a man of impeccable character can't be forgotten. Therefore, in 2006 President Lech Kaczyński awarded Bogdan Lisa with the Great Order of Rebirth of Poland in recognition of his merits. Despite the fact that prosecutor Piotrowicz was at the head of the review committee yesterday, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights gave Bogdan Lisa full confidence and unanimously recommended this candidacy as a member of the College of IPN. I hope that this will also be done by the House in the next vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u101	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Romankowski will speak in order to present the candidacy of Mr Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński presented by the group of Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15 and the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u102	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's my honor to present my candidacy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Dr. Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński. Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński, born April 4, 1972 in Warsaw, PhD in humanities in history, graduated from the Historical Faculty of the University of Warsaw in 1998, where he obtained a master's degree in history. In 2010, he defended his doctoral dissertation under the direction of Professor Jan Żaryn. Since 2006 employed in the Faculty of Research of the Branch Office of Public Education of the Institute of National Remembrance in Warsaw. Co-worker of The Kosciuszko Chair of Polish Studies at The Institute of World Politics, Washington. Between 2006 and 2010 he was a member of the Group for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Opinion of applications for Awarding Awards for Opposite Activities in the Polish People's Republic of Poland in the law firm of sleep. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. From 2015 to today, a member of Andrzej Duda, the Polish President's Chancellery of the Republic of Poland. Opinion of applications for Awarding Awards for Opposite Activities in the Polish People's Republic. From 2007 to 2010 the editor as well as co-editor of the monthly supplement of the Institute of National Remembrance to the Independent Newspaper of Poland and the New State. Member of the Management Board of the Foundation. Janusz Kurtyki. Honored, among others. Medal of the 2012 Pro Memoria by the Office for Combatants and the 70th anniversary of the National Armed Forces in 2012 by the Union of NSZ Soldiers. Polonia Aid Foundation Trust scholarship in London. Dr. Wojciech Muszyński created scientific expertise [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in cases concerning Soviet monuments of gratitude in Warsaw: so-called. four sleeping at en. Vilnius and sculptures of Soviet soldiers in Skaryszewski Park. In addition, he is the author of an expert opinion for the Przemyśl City Police Commission on the symbolism of Ukrainian nationalist movements in the 20th century to this day. He is the organizer of scientific conferences: "Amnestie - roads to extermination or 'legalization' in 2010, "Political processes of the 40s and 50s. - criminal offences under law in 2016. Under his supervision, the projects were carried out: The Cursed to Schools in 2016 and the production of documentary film "Brigade." The film received a distinction at the festival of documentary films in Niepokorni, Niepoczłomni, Wyklamni, Gdynia, 2015. He is the author of dozens of monographs, studies and scientific articles about historical topics, including, among others, history. concerning solid soldiers, opposition activity in the Polish People's Republic, independence and national movement. For 13 years he has been editor of the scientific half-year of Glaukopis, and has recently been a member of the Scientific Council of the Museum of Soldiers Cursed in Warsaw. I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this candidacy, which is recommended by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapek will speak in order to present the candidacy of Mr Henryk Uncle submitted by the group of Members of the Modern Posel Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the outstanding figure of Polish history, a person with undisputed merits in opposition activity, Mr Henryk Wujc, a candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Henryk Wujec graduated from the Faculty of Physics at the University of Warsaw. In 1962, he became involved in the activities of the Catholic Intelligence Club in Warsaw. In the summer of 1976, he became involved in helping the repressed for his participation in the events of June '76 to the workers of Ursus, then in 1976 and 1977 he was an associate of the Committee for the Defence of Workers, and in May 1977 he took part in the famine in the church of St. Marcin in Warsaw. From 1977 to 1981 he was a member of the Social Self-Defense Committee of the Workers' Defence Committee, which I think can be confirmed by the ministers of the current government: Minister Antoni Macierewicz or Minister Piotr Naimski, who are present in the Chamber. He then became a co-founder of Free Trade Unions and joined the NSZZ in 1980, in which he was a member of the Mazovian and national authorities. From the declaration of martial law on 13 December 1981 to September 1982 he was interned and then until 1984 and again in 1986 he was imprisoned. Between 1987 and 1988, he was a member and then secretary of the Civic Committee with the chairman of the NSZZ.Solidarity of Lech Wałęsie. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In 1989, he participated in the round table in the union pluralism team. In 1989, he was a Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. He was also Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture of Jerzy Buzek's Government. After completing his parliamentary work, he became involved in non-governmental activities. He collaborated, among others. with the Charter Centre Foundation, with the Village Support Foundation. In 2012, he was appointed as a member of the International Auschwitz Council and a year later as a member of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Foundation Council. In 2014, he co-founded the Solidarity Civil Committee with Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! By order of 21 September 2006, President Lech Kaczyński awarded Mr Henryk Uncle the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. Between 2010 and 2015, Mr Henryk Wujec was an advisor to the President of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I think everyone in this room will agree that Mr. Henryk Wujec has very high moral values and knowledge necessary to work at the Institute of National Remembrance. He is, most importantly, a witness and author of history, which is the subject of the Institute's statutory activities. Such a perspective is necessary for the IPN to function effectively and with respect for victims of persecution. The knowledge, experience and high ethics of the proceedings make Henryk Uncle a natural candidate for the position of a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. I think it's obvious to everyone in this room that this is a natural and very good candidate, and that it will be supported by the majority of the parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u105	Thank you, sir. In that case, I would now ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to speak in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At yesterday's meeting, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights took note of the silhouettes of all 10 candidates for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on Crime Pursuit against the Polish Nationals. During the committee meeting, no one asked questions, nor did anyone speak in the discussion. In an individual vote, as a result of an individual vote, all candidates were welcomed by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u107	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, I would like to ask if any of you and your fellow Members would like to take the floor on the applications submitted. I've got two calls. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk and Mr Antoni Mężydło have come forward. There you go. I'm opening a discussion. The time for your speeches is three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's vote is an extremely important element in the creation of new foundations, new system and activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. The College of the Institute of National Remembrance, which we choose today, is de facto restored, because since the beginning of the operation of the National Remembrance Institute, the college has been functioning. Today's selection of candidates this is the selection of candidates who will not only hold a contest for the President of the IPN, but will also be an extremely important body of opinion and advice for the President of the IPN. New tasks, which the High Sejm was willing to adopt for the Institute, in particular tasks related to commemoration, search, genetic basis, but also the extension of the concept of communist crime, all these new tasks related to the Institute's activities, the opening of a reserved collection - will require the support and advice of these very experienced, well-deserved people, who today will be chosen by the College of Institute. Therefore, I ask that this choice be a thoughtful, wise and sensible choice, because the Institute of National Remembrance, which will function under the leadership of this college and the newly elected president, will be an extremely important instrument for creating Polish historical policy, Polish perspective, building Polish national identity, showing the memory of Polish heroes and researching historical education of young people. This is an extremely important element, an extremely important point of building Polish national identity. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Antoni Man, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the work on this amendment, we have been talking about the fact that it is intended to politicize the Institute of National Remembrance, and we have shown the errors that you have made in the project. Breaking away the choice of IPN authorities from scientific institutions such as universities and the best institutes that have a historical profile is such an element. In the project there was also the resignation of the College of National Remembrance competition for the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. Although you introduced the institution of the competition during your work in the subcommittee, we have noted that in the current political configuration that we have in Parliament, this competition will be rather decorative because one party has an advantage. Today you confirm it. So politicization goes on. Why did you report five candidates for the College of IPN, those elected by the Sejm? Of course, you have an absolute majority in Parliament and these five of you will be chosen. You didn't even give a chance like you did on the National Media Council, where you offered two seats for the opposition in a five-man squad. You didn't even go there. We also pointed out in the discussion that the previous Act on the Institute of National Remembrance has produced excellent results. The election of the current President of Łukasz Kaminski was the most appropriate choice. It's worked out in life. It is well assessed by the environment both on the right side, on the left side and on the centre. Of course, everyone has some reservations. I'm guessing today's I.P.N. pitch... I don't know why you want to do it in such a way that Law and Justice chooses, has all the members of the College of IPN. The competition in this case is purely formal, facaded and does not matter, because the party authorities will decide who will be president of the Institute of National Remembrance and what politics will be. Of course, the opposition has submitted its candidates, many of them have very good competences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We do not deny that, according to the opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, your candidates are competent, but this has nothing to do with democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u111	Thank you, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address Members of the parliamentary majority, the Law and Justice Club. That's right, you won the election, you got the absolute majority in the Seym, but you didn't get 100%. voters' votes, and you don't have 100% either. parking tickets in the Seym. That is why I appeal to you, Members of the Law and Justice, to preserve pluralism at the Institute of National Remembrance and not to select five of your candidates for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Prominent candidates have been submitted through opposition clubs. This is Henry Wujec, about whom no one has any doubt that he is an outstanding character with great ethical qualities. I think that Minister Antoni Macierewicz or Minister Piotr Naimski, who worked with him on the Workers' Defence Committee, can confirm that. Professor Andrzej Friszke has been notified. Mr. Bogdan Lis has been reported. I appeal to you not to take the entire pot, not to go through all institutions with a struggle, but to preserve pluralism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u113	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. 26 in conjunction with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance by a majority of votes. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't let it happen later that somebody says they're wrong. 10 candidates have been submitted to the five posts of the members of the college. The Sejm will vote on the nominations in alphabetical order. After the appointment of the fifth person as a member of the College of National Remembrance Institute, no vote on the other candidates will be held. We are voting on the nomination submitted by the Parliamentary Club Group of Rights and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Sławomir Ryszard Cenckiewicz as a member of the College of National Remembrance will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote 266 against 169. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm, by majority, appointed Mr Sławomir Ryszard Cenckiewicz as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. We proceed with the vote on the nomination submitted by the Group of Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Louis Dorn as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. Fourteen Members abstained in favour, 142 against - 282. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Louis Dorn as a member of the college of the Institute in the absence of a majority of votes. We are voting on the nomination submitted by the Parliamentary Club Group of Rights and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Jan Draus as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The vote was 238 votes against - 194, with 8 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Jan Draus as a member of the college of the Institute by a majority of votes. We are voting on the nomination submitted by the Parliamentary Club Group of Rights and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Piotr Franaszek as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 264 Members voted against - 173, 5 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has appointed Mr Piotr Franaszek as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance by a majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on the candidacy submitted by the Group of Members of the Civic Platform Club. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Andrzej Friszke as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 175 Members voted against - 261 and 6 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Andrzej Friszke as a member of the college of the Institute in the absence of a majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on the nomination submitted by the Group of Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Bogdan Lisa as a member of the College of National Remembrance, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 173 Members voted against - 264, 4 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm did not appoint Mr Bogdan Lisa as a member of the college of the Institute in the absence of a majority of votes. We are voting on the nomination submitted by the Parliamentary Club Group of Rights and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Józef Marecki as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 264 Members against 175. The Sejm appointed Mr Józef Marecki as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance by a majority of votes. We are voting on the nomination submitted by the Group of Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15 and the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. Excuse me, there's a question. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated Member, has the floor. He's raising a question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two words first, by the way. Review by Mr Marzydła on Dr. Kaminski. His chairman of the Institute of National Remembrance is not widely judged. [[Why?]] Many circles, including historians, criticize and view his presidency as a craftsmanship. So don't speak for everyone here in this courtroom. On the other hand, there is a question about Dr. Wojciech Muszyński: Is it true that he is an extremely well-deserved person when it comes to commemorating cursed soldiers when it comes to fighting Soviet remains, monuments in Poland? Is it true that Dr. Wojciech Muszyński is a person who has been associated with the Institute of National Remembrance for many years, who - like perhaps no other candidacy - deserves to be honored here in this way? And if the maximum is true, then to the Member of the applicant: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Show me your enemies, and I'll tell you who you are? Is it true that this candidacy is also furiously attacked by the Election Gazeta? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u115	Thank you. The applicant for the candidacy of Mr Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński is Mr Tomasz Romankowski. Well, what then? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, but the Member doesn't... [[Voice from the room: How about a break?]] In that case, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on Mr Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński's candidacy. Who among you is in favour of choosing Mr. Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński as a member of the College of National Remembrance, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 49 against - 379, six Members abstained. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Wojciech Jerzy Muszyński as a member of the college of the Institute in view of the failure to obtain a majority of votes. We proceed to the vote on the nomination submitted by the group of Members of the Posel Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Henryk Uncle as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 175 Members voted against - 263, four Members abstained. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Henryk Uncle as a member of the College of National Remembrance. We are voting on the nomination submitted by the Parliamentary Club Group of Rights and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Krzysztof Wyszkowski as a member of the College of National Remembrance, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 257 Members voted against - 177, 6 abstentions. The Sejm, by majority, appointed Mr Krzysztof Wyszkowski as a member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals. [[Applause]] That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 21st meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. But before that, I inform you, the High House, that the deliberations are being listened to by the representation of the Association of Retirement and Retirementists from Żywiec with the President-in-Office. [[Applause]] Welcome. Nine Members have come forward to make their statements. You know the procedures and regulations. Ms Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the Minister of Health on the absence of changes in the reimbursement list in force from 1 May 2016. High Izbo! I was approached by representatives of organisations of cancer patients, who are very concerned about the absence of changes in the published reimbursement list in the area of colorectal cancer and breast cancer. The information provided shows that patients with colorectal cancer have been waiting for more than 2 years for modern medicines successfully used in other European countries. I have also been informed that the current drug programme in this area is not in line with medical standards, which means that these medicines are not effective many times. It is not surprising, then, that patients fighting for access to modern therapies would like to be sure that the available medicines will produce the desired therapeutic effects. In the treatment of patients with advanced colorectal cancer, new generation technologies in the form of targeted therapy are increasingly used worldwide. Currently, the National Health Fund finances two drugs, but the refund only applies to patients with a very advanced stage of chemoresistant cancer, after failure of the first and second lines of treatment, i.e. in the third line of treatment. According to European guidelines confirmed by Polish consultants, the optimal solution is to use drugs from the third line at the beginning of the treatment, i.e. to move them to the first line. Women with breast cancer also have limited access to treatment using state-of-the-art therapy. In many European countries, effective, safe medicines are refunded, which are currently a global standard for breast cancer treatment. In Poland, the current eligibility criteria for treatment do not allow treatment in case of disease in the local, early stage, but only in the palliative state of the patient. In addition, the problem of Polish patients with breast cancer is also the form of treatment. Currently, only a form of infusion is available in Poland, which makes it necessary to stay in the hospital for longer, while increasing the costs of the facility and the patient's burden. In other EU countries, the subcutaneous form of a simple injection is already used. Using this form, we save time and effort both for the patients and for the medical staff themselves. The second drug they are fighting for and which they are asking for, pertuzumab, has also not yet been refunded despite scientifically proven very good therapeutic effects. Minister, therefore, on behalf of patients with colorectal cancer, as well as patients with breast cancer, I ask the Minister for information when the Ministry of Health intends to take measures that will lead to the possibility that Polish patients with cancer can be treated with modern medications in drug programs for the above mentioned areas, which are compliant with standards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Agata Borowiec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2016 there was the 72nd anniversary of the guerrilla battle near Osuchami, the Bilgoraj district, the Lublin Voivodeship. This battle, also known as the Battle of Sopot, was fought on June 25 and 26, 1944. The Battle of Osuch is considered by historians to be the greatest guerrilla battle in Poland during World War II. The German Command gave the operation a lap and the elimination of guerrillas a codename for Sturmwind II. German troops with more than 30,000. The soldiers were equipped with artillery, armored units and aircraft. In the boiler of their laps were the guerrilla troops of the People's Army, the Battalions of the peasants, and the Home Army, which had around 1.5 thousand. Polish guerrillas. About 600 guerrillas were killed in fierce fights, and for those captured under the Osuchami Poles the Germans formed a POW camp in Biłgoraj. About 60 prisoners, after a brutal investigation involving barbed wire, were transported to the woods in the district of Rapa, Biłgoraj, and there were shot by the Germans. High Izbo! We have a great responsibility to remember those days of fighting for independence, sacrifice and boundless love for our homeland never to be forgotten. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Nervous as persuasion. The versatility and diversity of the Modern Richard Petru owe to the careful selection of the honourable Members, using the criterion of acting predispositions to role-play, i.e. model images of particular types of neurosis. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u121	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u122	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 29 May 2016 at the Shrine of Our Lady of Lubecka we celebrated the celebration of the 300th anniversary Finding a medallion with her image. This is a special anniversary for the inhabitants of Lublin, undoubtedly worthy of presentation in the Polish Parliament. To pay tribute to our beloved Mother on the Lubecka Góra, on the jubilee day all states gathered - the clergy with the Bishop of the Gliwice Diocese Jan Kopcem, representatives of authorities, institutions and crowds of believers. Lubecko is a small town located northwest of Lublin. A wonderfully found medallion is placed in the presbytery of the local Marian shrine. This shrine occupies an important place in the history of the region of Lublin and the whole Silesia. The oldest mention of the church in Lubeck dates back to 1342. A wonderful medallion was found in 1716 when the parish priest was Fr. George Francis lived. The medallion measuring 12.5 cm on 7.5 cm is painted on a silver plate. On his obverse is the image of Our Lady, and on the reverse is the image of the Savior in the thorn crown (Ecce Homo). Wonderful circumstances of finding the medallion and events related to its cult have echoed widely in the First Republic. The image of Our Lady of Lubecka was then interested in Paulini from nearby Jasna Góra, and we owe them the report from finding the medallion. The medallion was taken to the bishop's curia in Wrocław and it was many years before again in 1738, thanks to the determination of the parishioners, by the papal decision he returned to Lubeck. The Silesian people spent all these years on pilgrimages to the graces of the famous image of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Lubeck, where they asked for all necessary graces. This is witnessed by numerous votives, reports of miracles written in parish books, and when in 1847. Lublin was affected by a disaster of plague and famine, the inhabitants of Lubecka's Virgin Mary were just turned to their rescue and were heard. They then made a vowed commitment of pedestrian pilgrimages to Lubeck, which take place annually on 2 July, and this promise is faithful until today. In recognition of the great importance for the inhabitants of the region on 14 August 1994, the bishop of Gliwice Jan Wieczorek established the parish church of St. Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary diocesan shrine of Our Lady of Lubecka. This extraordinary place is famous not only for the wonderful image of Our Lady, it can also delight with the richness of the church's decor and unique Gothic frescoes on the European scale from the beginning of the 15th century. Present parish priest, curator of the sanctuary Fr. Andrzej Bartysiewicz restores the full glow of the temple, especially taking care of all historical details. The outer wall of the church's presbytery in Lubeck is adjacent to the grave always decorated with flowers and lighted ruins. Francis Ciemienga rests in it, called Dziołszka or Francka from Kanusa. She became famous for taking away, or prophetic visions, helping people who came to her - distressed, unable to solve their own problems. They believed in the effectiveness of receiving God's favor through her intercession. In this way, she gained a holy opinion in people. In times of chasing money, conflicts, the cult of consumption, the departure from the fundamental values of the sanctuary is the basis of faith, and its importance and popularity is constantly increasing. An important tradition is the prayer night vigil every first Friday of the month, which spread the past parish priest, sleep. Henry Gajda. Finally, I would like to quote the words of prayer which reflect the essence of this Jubilee, which allow us to open our hearts to the graces flowing through Our Lady's intercession: Our Lady Lubecka, Mother of Silesia, Guardian of our homes and fields! We stand before you as our fathers, who have been pilgriming to your holy image with faith and hope and with genuine love in their hearts for 300 years. And you, Mother, were the basis for their faith in God and loyalty to the Holy Church. You gave hope to our ancestors in times of distress and comforted them in the sorrows and experiences of life. We ask you today, comfort the sick, the lonely and the depressed. Teach us to participate with great honor in every Holy Mass. In your motherly hands we lay down the present and future of our Silesian Land, in which you are worshipped as Mother of Justice and Social Love. With your Son intercede for us now and at the hour of our death. Amen. I invite you to the hospitable thresholds of the shrine of Our Lady of Lubecka. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u124	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The last days of June are a special time for hundreds of thousands of Polish students, as school classes are ending, the time comes to summarize the year-round effort. For those of the best who have achieved the highest average marks on the certificates and gained laurels in the Olympics and competitions concerned, prizes await. Unique are the celebrations during which the best students in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski are honored. For 25 years there has been a plebiscite of the Student of the Year. Its organizers are the City Hall in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie and the local weekly Gazeta Ostrowiecka. The rules of the plebiscite are simple. Each school selects a student who, thanks to his outstanding results in science, sports or artistic successes or social activity, becomes a finalist of the plebiscite. The finalists are selected winners who receive the title of Student of the Year in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. It used to be one elementary school person and one middle school person. Today, two people are selected, who receive bicycles as a reward. This year's jubilee 25th gala of the plebiscite took place on June 16th in the last place of the Cinema Etiuda. As last year, it was characterized by exceptional momentum, because in addition to 16 students of the year from the Ostrowiec public and private primary schools and junior high schools was awarded by President Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski 26 finalists and winners of the competitions and 63 students who distinguished themselves with knowledge, exemplary behaviour and sports and artistic successes. The special awards were also presented by invited guests, parliamentarians and trade union representatives. Students of the year were also elected by the readers of the Ostrowieckie Gazeta. It is impossible to name all the young, wonderful people here, so I will limit myself to only four of them who have won the plebiscite: Aleksandra Szal from the Public Primary School No. 1, Oliwia Tyrała - student of the Public Primary School No. 5, Aleksandra Kęp from Public Secondary School No. 1 and Marcin Fulara - student of Public Secondary School No. 4. I warmly congratulate all those who are rewarded, their parents and their teachers. I am also addressing President Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, Mr Jarosław Górczyński and my colleagues from the Faculty of Education and Social Affairs of the City Office in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie for an excellent organisation of the event. I was very pleased to be part of it. Unfortunately, parliamentary responsibilities did not allow me to be present in the already organised 13. once a gala of giving scholarships to the old Ostrich. This ceremony took place yesterday in the auditorium of School No. 3 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie. 11 highly talented and talented young people, students of upper secondary schools who have achieved success in the Olympics concerned, in competition at sports arenas both in Poland and abroad, or have special artistic achievements. Among them, I would like to mention three people: in the teaching category Grzegorz Waliszczak from High School No. 1, in the artistic category Anna Loranty from High School No. 2 and in the sports category Ewa Pietrzykowska from High School No. 3. This year, for the first time, prizes were awarded for the competition of sports schools in upper secondary schools. In addition, 88 students were awarded for outstanding achievements in science and success in the Olympic Games, competitions and various competitions. I congratulate all of them and their loved ones and their teachers with heartfelt congratulations. I congratulate you on this beautiful party. At the same time, I am very satisfied, because as a councilman I was the originator and initiator of the resolution of the district council in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie, on the basis of which the scholarships of the Old Town are awarded. During these 13 years, nearly 200 students and students received them. Once again, I congratulate all the distinguished and their teachers, and on the coming holiday I wish them a wonderful holiday. They really deserved it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz'15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me celebrate today the memory of the victims of the Soviet crime near Zabłudow in the area of today's Podlaskie voivodeship, near Białystok. This crime and today's crime. The 75th anniversary reminds us that the NKVD, following the order of Stalin and Beria concerning the cleansing and export of Polish citizens living on the border, and in fact in this particular case in Białystok, carried it out to the very end. The victims I'm talking about were informed, ordered to pack and prepare for export on 20 June 1941 18 hours before the German troops entered before the German-Soviet war. The NKVD did not have time to transport these people, but, seeing the German aggression, it managed to execute the order to shoot them on the spot during transport to Bialystok prison. 15 men were killed at Zabludow, 15 innocent civilians were killed, four escaped. There were 20 of them, and about 15 people were killed at the scene as a result of the shooting by the NKVD. Today, after 75 years, in free Poland, we can finally pay due respect and due respect to the murdered victims of the NKVD beasts. Today, the mayor of Ciechanowiec, the mayor of Bransk, the mayor of Zabłudowa, local authorities associated with this land participate in the solemn appeal and solemnly worship this place, the memory of these victims. I would also like to join in remembering this anniversary and celebrating these victims. Hello to their memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u128	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday the Sejm of the Republic of Poland established the year 2017 the memory of the great Pole Marshal Józef Piłsudski. In 2017 there is a 150th anniversary of the birth of the Marshal. This will be the day before the preparations for the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. It was Marshal Józef Piłsudski who was one of the co-founders of independent Poland. During the partitions he created the Polish Legions and the Polish Military Organization. This was the beginning of the re-created Polish state. It was Józef Piłsudski on 11 November 1918 that the Regency Council handed over the sovereignty and chief command of the Polish Army. In 1920, when Poland had to face the coming Bolshevik army from the east, Józef Piłsudski showed extraordinary strategic abilities and led us to victory, protecting both Poland and Europe from the expansion of communism. By many historians, the Battle of Warsaw is considered one of the most important battles in the history of Europe. The attitude and heroic actions of Marshal Józef Piłsudski were a model for many Poles. It is worth recalling a passage from the resolution of the Sejm: During the German occupation and several dozen years of Soviet power over Poland, Marshal Józef Piłsudski became a symbol of the tireless struggle for independence and an example for subsequent generations of Polish patriots. Today, too, we should respect the work of Józef Piłsudski, even though for the sake of his words: The nation that loses its memory ceases to be a nation - it becomes merely a collection of people who temporarily occupy the territory. We therefore have a moral duty to ensure that the achievements of the great Poles are never forgotten. It is a good time to bring the figure of Józef Piłsudski closer through educational and cultural activities. I express my deep conviction and hope that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and local authorities will do their utmost to keep this very important figure in our history in the memory of the Polish people in 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u129	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u130	Message statement on the 70th anniversary of Marian Bernaciak's death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As of June 24, there are 70. the anniversary of the death of Marian Bernaciak pseudoud. Orlik and Smokek - lieutenant of the Polish Army reserve, member of the AK Armed Fighting Union, commander of the guerrilla troops of the AK and Associations of Freedom and Independence in Lublin. Marian Bernaciak was born on 6 March 1917. At the age of 20, he graduated from middle school. A.J. Czartoryski in Puławy. The compulsory one-year military service ended up as a platoon sluggish soldier and was assigned to 2. The Heavy Artillery regiment. It was mobilized in August 1939. During Włodzimierz Wołyński's defense, he entered Soviet captivity. However, he managed to escape from POW transport and return to his hometown. In 1940. Bernaciak began a conspiracy activity within the Armed Fighting Union and later the National Army. He was the head of the Kedyw Podobrodu (Kedywu Podobrodu) in the AK Puławy Oblast. In 1943, he formed a guerrilla unit that received the code name OP I/15 of the Infantry Regiment of the AK Wolfs and carried out more than 20 combat actions. Thanks to his attitude during the action, important facilities were saved in Dęblin and the population was protected from export. After a failed march to Warsaw, Bernaciak's branch was disbanded and the NKVD wanted Orlik to hide. In March 1945. Bernaciak recreated his branch, which later became a member of the WiN Association several months later. Orlik himself was appointed commander of the group of WiN troops in the District Province of Puławy and subsequently deputy inspector of Puławy. safety. According to some sources, he was then promoted to the rank of major, according to others - to the rank of captain. His group of about 200 soldiers was the largest in Lublin and conducted, among others. such actions as the breaking up of three operational groups of the CWB in Wola Zadybska, the breaking up of the District State Security Office in Puławy, or the release of about 120 prisoners from transport under Bąkowice, including many soldiers of independence underground. In 1945 military and security forces were gathered in the Lublin region. In order to facilitate the conspiracy and at the same time remain ready to fight, Bernaciak divided his group into smaller groups, and one year later he formed two divisions with its members. Orlik, all the time. because he adapted the tactics to the changing situation, which only confirmed his excellent leadership abilities. Several thousand soldiers and officers were involved in the liquidation of Bernaciak's group. First the parents and brother of Orlik were arrested, and Bernaciak himself was tried to capture during his return from the check-in in Wish. He was then attacked in front of a group of soldiers and a unit of the CWB. Orlik was wounded twice and no longer had a chance to escape, which is why most likely he committed suicide with a gun. His body was transported to Warsaw and buried in 45N, so-called. Accommodation at the well at the Brodnowski Cemetery. By order of 24 June 2009, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński gave the Great Order of Rebirth to Marian Bernaciak posthumously for outstanding merits for independence of the Republic of Poland. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-23-sejm-21-3.u131	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 21st session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 22nd session of the Sejm, convened on 5, 6 and 7 July 2016, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 11 min 50]]
