ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please keep your conversations quiet and take your seats. Senator Fedorovich, too, please... [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] Also your Senator Zientarski. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, as a result of the shocks in the Rudna mine in Polkowice, eight miners were killed. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the tragically dead miners. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Act for 2017. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 317 Z. I would like to ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz, the rapporteur of the committee, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting today, the Commission has dealt with this law and recommends that the High Senate reject the proposal for adoption of the law without amendments and adopt amendments 1, 2, 3 and reject Amendment 4, followed by the adoption of the law in its entirety with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the discussion, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Mieczysław Augustyn submitted their proposals. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Never before, it seems, in those 11 years at the voting point, I have not spoken from the speaker. If I do this by interrupting the voting process, it is only because I really believe that we should accept Amendment 4, which will guarantee the hardworking with intellectually and mentally ill workers of environmental self-help homes a little higher wages than the lowest wage. That's the gesture I'm asking for. Of course, we will have to look after the 130 million later, but this is not the amount that we could not find, and it is really necessary if these people are to have good care. Otherwise, in today's labour market, workers, as they do now, will increasingly go to other jobs. I call for this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted against. They were all against it. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 2, 3 should be voted on together. Amendments No 1 and 3 aim to increase the appropriations for the social fund established on the basis of the law on pension provision of uniformed services by reference to the 2012 budget law and increase the write-down to the social benefit fund by reference to the average remuneration in the second half of 2012. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendments 1, 2 and 3 were accepted. Amendment 4 deletes the provision resulting in the planned increase in funding for support centres for people with mental disorders by one year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 43 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 30 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2017. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Retail Tax Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 330 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 76 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate printing No 322 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 28 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of financial care from public funds and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on the establishment of the Eastern Cross. The meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and the Committee on Culture and Communications, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on this matter. It is available in print No 319 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The meeting of the Joint Committee on Culture and Emigration was held today at 8.30 a.m. As many as 19 amendments were tabled, which we voted on. As a result of this vote, amendments 1, 10 and 18 were accepted, as were amendments 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18. Amendments 2, 11 and 19 and 3, 6 and 12 were rejected. Amendment 12, which states that persons awarded the Eastern Cross would be additionally beneficiaries of certain rights under the Polish Charter, has been tabled as a minority request. Senator Shark is responsible for this request. [[Voice from the room: Not Shark, just Shark.]] Shark, I'm sorry, of course. Excuse me. [[My name's not Shark.]] Definitely not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u8	Mr. Marshal! I'm gonna introduce him from the spot because it's literally gonna be a few words. I ask all of you, apart from this medal that will be awarded... It's just a small addition. It's about emergency treatment, entrance to the museum, travel It is not much, but it would be a significant gesture. Please vote in favour of Amendment 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicant, Senator Jan Żaryn and Marshal Borusewicz, want to speak again? No. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 10 and 18 should be voted together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 2, 11 and 19. Amendment 1 removes the time frame for assistance to Poles, as outlined in years, and Amendments 10 and 18 are the consequence of Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 31 votes against, 48 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 2 amends the time frame of the aid, adopting the years 1917 and 1991 instead of the period 1937 and 1959. Amendments 11 and 19 are the consequence of Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 47 for, 31 against. [[Voting No 31]] Amendments 2, 11 and 19 were accepted. Amendment 3 assumes that the territory in which assistance was provided to Poles covers the land of the other Republic, not the former Eastern Kresy of the first and second Republic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 30 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 3 was rejected. Amendment 4 deletes the word "old' relating to the Eastern Ends. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted... up to 78, 47, 31 against. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendment 5 deletes the word "ex" relating to the Soviet Union. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 49 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 provides that the Eastern Cross is to be given to foreigners and not to persons of nationalities other than Polish. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 26 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 takes into account that the possibility of post-mortem award arises from the relevant provisions of the Orders and Awards Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 50 for, 24 against. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 8, 13 and 17 should be voted together. They assume that the conditions and procedure for depriving the Cross should result from the Orders and Awards Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Seventy-eight senators voted, 76 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 37]] Amendments 8, 13 and 17 were accepted. Amendments 9 and 14 should be voted together. They harmonise the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 12 provides that a person decorated with the Eastern Cross benefits from part of the rights provided for the holders of the Polish Charter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 28 votes against, 39 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 15... The previous one was rejected. Amendment 15, since none of the substantive provisions of the Act provides for an institution to list the proposals presented, deletes the provision authorising the Minister to draw up a model for such a list. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 16 adds the missing guideline to the definition in the regulation of the manner and circumstances of the Eastern Cross. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 74 for, 3 against. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 77 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law establishing the Eastern Cross. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on National Defence took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 337 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report by the Senate Committee on National Defence from today's committee meeting, which discussed the conclusions made during yesterday's debate. I would like to recommend, on behalf of the committee, the adoption of the proposal contained in point I, i.e. the adoption of a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u11	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the National Defence Committee, Senator Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. [[But I didn't apply for a minority.]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] I'm listening. [[The conclusion...]] [[Mr. Marshal, High Senate...]] You're welcome. [[...I'd like to present the information. Mr Marshal and Mr Klich were requested to submit minority proposals. I don't know, some kind of incoherent knowledge...]] So Marshal Borusewicz doesn't want to speak, right? Because you can take it or you can't take it, it's possible. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I ask the next minority rapporteur of the National Defence Committee, Senator Bogdan Klich, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees. This is the conclusion contained in point II, in point 2.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to ask the High House to reconsider and vote in favour of the minority request that I have tabled and therefore present to the High House on the issue of the use of the Territorial Defence Army. The territorial defense forces began to form before we passed the relevant law and before the president signed it. Before this process of military formation began, precise tasks should be set for these troops. These tasks, according to the statutory submission, relate to issues of crisis, which are very widely understood. There are many doubts and we, as a club, have such doubts that these armies can also be used in internal crises, in internal political crises. And that's why we're asking for an amendment, which is a minority proposal, that... [[Oh, my God!]] ...Territorial War Defense cannot be used against Polish citizens. On behalf of Marshal Borusewicz, who made the other amendments, I would also recommend that the amendment be adopted...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u13	But now, Mr. Senator, you had an opportunity. You're only commenting on the application under point II, point 2. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Don't take care of your friends. Do Senators Bogdan Borusewicz or Bogdan Klich still want to speak as Senators of the applicant? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the motion of the Committee on National Defence, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[It's broken.]] Please report the results. And why aren't the Senators voting? [[A voice from the room: And that's illegal, Mr. Marshal?]] Extremely legal... They don't vote, do they? [[We'll answer in writing, Mr. Marshal.]] Okay, I'm announcing a recess right now. You're welcome. And I'm also announcing the results of the vote. 48 senators voted in favour, 48 in favour. And I'm asking you to take a break now. [[How long?]] Ten minutes. [[To the entrance of the squad.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 50 to 9 minutes 59]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u14	I'm extending the recess until 10:30. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 59 to 10 minutes 29]] I'm extending the recess until 10.45. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 29 to 10 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u15	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. High Izbo, there was no quorum before the break. We are now voting on the motion of the Committee on National Defence, supported by the committee, to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't shine.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Time out.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Break.]] Who's in favour? I'm not declaring a break during the vote, ladies and gentlemen. This is an irrational conclusion. But there's no such conclusion, is there? [[But there was no vote.]] I've already announced the vote, Senator. Please don't disturb me. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 29 against. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and certain other laws. We are back to discussing item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. These are senate prints 335 A and 335 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the law. This is Senate printing No 328 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 harmonises the terminology used by this law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 2 cites the full title of the Agricultural Market Research Act together with its publication address in order to take into account the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds. We would like to return to the 11th item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Insurance and Farming Animals. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to the law. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment presented and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the adoption of the amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. The amendment aims to clarify the regulation which allows for the funding from the State budget of agricultural crop insurance contributions from one or more risks in 2017 despite exceeding the tariff rates set out in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural and Farm Animal Insurance. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We therefore proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 244 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Grażyna Sztark to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the bill submitted and to the adoption of a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the hall: A.]] I'm asking you to... Well, we'll wait a little longer because there are indecisive senators... [[To, Mr. Marshal.]] No, no, I know how to vote. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 81 for, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Grażyna Sztark to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of the 15th item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners. We are returning to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it asked for an amendment to the Act, Senate printing No 334 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. The amendment consists in deleting the provisions amending the telecoms law and the law promoting the development of telecommunications services and networks, as they have no connection with the creation of the Ministry of Interior and Administration and should be included in a separate amending law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 35 for, 47 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 52]] The amendment was rejected. We'll proceed to the vote... No corrections, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u16	I'm filing a motion to adopt this law without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u17	In that case, we are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 52 for, 30 against. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in connection with the creation of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request an amendment to Law 331 A and Senate Printing No 331 B. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. The amendment takes into account that a transitional provision of the amending act, rather than a revised authorisation, will be the basis for a possible revision of the care programme for homeless animals and the prevention of the homelessness of animals in force on the date of entry into force of the amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 39 against, 42 against. [[Voting No 54]] The amendment was rejected. Please, the senator raised his hand first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u18	I'm filing a motion to adopt this law without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u19	We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 74 were in favour, 2 against, 5 abstained. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act, Senate printing No 342 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 establishes the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as an implementing entity for the cooperation activities covered by the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 2 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 3 introduces a temporary limitation on the validity of the implementing rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Act on the Declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments, Senate prints No 333 A and 333 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the Declaration of the Statute of the International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, drawn up in Madrid on 13 September 1983. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. and consider it as a item on the 20th agenda; the Act amending the Energy Law and certain other laws and consider it as a point of the 21st agenda; the Act amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws and consider it as item twenty-second of the agenda; the law on the organisation and procedure of the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and its consideration as item twenty-third of the agenda. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted this proposal. [[There's an objection.]] I don't see... Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u20	I'm against... [[Voice from the room: Turn on the microphone.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not opposed to certain exceptions which they order because of the important interest of the state to introduce in an emergency and without reports... i.e. with a short time to prepare reports by committees... But I'm against it. And that fits in with your motion, Mr. Marshal. This practice, which is that most laws are now being put on the agenda without proper consideration in committees. This happened, among others. during the procedure of the Constitutional Court Act, when the Sejm had not yet passed the Act, and the committee had already gathered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u21	No, that's not the situation, Mr. Senator, and it never will be. [[She was.]] There you go... But what kind of... [[Politically...]] But what... You're totally against everything...? [[Totally against such practice.]] Okay, well, then we're gonna vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But if you're against everything... [[Voice from the room: You have to vote.]] But you're... I've filed a motion to add... one, two, three, four points, and the senator wants all four of them rejected. So... are we gonna vote it out one at a time? [[Voice from the room: Practice is that one at a time.]] One at a time. All right, I'll hear it. I think en masse... Well, that's good. Because he was... [[Mr. Marshal...]] But there's already been an objection to the formal application, so... [[I just in case...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But now it's... No, but that's... [[If you interpret it differently, Mr. Marshal...]] But I understand now that he's been... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, ladies and gentlemen... [[I object to point twenty-three.]] If Senator Rulewski had filed a formal motion... [[Voice from the room: It's an objection...]] ...about the rejection of the first point, Mr. Marshal could report the rejection of the second and third points, but since Mr. Senator has applied for en block, we are voting, ladies and gentlemen, over individual... [[Mr. Marshal!]] But we're voting now. [[About the formal issue.]] What's the formal issue? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u22	On such a matter, Mr. Marshal, that someone may... [[Is this a formal conclusion or a formal question? Because there's a difference.]] Mr. Marshal, someone may disagree with Senator Rulewski about rejecting everything and, for example, wishing to reject only a point with the Constitutional Court Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u23	Mr. Senator, you weren't listening. As I say, over the individual, over the next... [[If...]] ...we're going to vote right now. [[And if you put them all to the vote one at a time, yes.]] Yes. But I've already made that clear. You weren't listening. I'm sorry. [[I've been listening, but there's noise.]] I don't think it was a proposal. It's not formal, it's not formal, it's not formal, it's not formal, it's not formal, it's [[Thank you for explaining this to me.]] I've explained it before, and now to the senator individually. I understand that we all understand that, and we know how we're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on individual proposals. Who is in favour of my proposal to complete the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws? And to consider this item as item 20 of the agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 26 against, 5 abstained. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I note that the amendment of the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws will be item 20 of the agenda. We proceed with the further vote. Who is in favour of my proposal to complete the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws? And consider this item as the twenty-first agenda? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 22 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 62]] In view of the results of the vote, I declare that we have included on the agenda a point on amending the Energy Law and some other laws and we will consider this item as the twenty-first agenda. We proceed to the vote on my motion to include on the agenda the Act amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws and considering this item as the twenty-second agenda. Who's in favour of my motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 23 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 63]] In view of the results of the vote, I find that the High House has accepted my proposal to supplement the agenda with a point on the amendment of the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws and to consider this item as the twenty-second agenda. We proceed to the vote on the fourth motion, which is my proposal to supplement the agenda with a point on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal and to consider this item as the twenty-third agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 30 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 64]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that my proposal to complete the agenda with a point on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal has been accepted as item twenty-third of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 338 and the committee's report in print No 338 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, to submit a report to the committee. I ask you, Senator, to speak, and I ask you to terminate your conversations or keep them out of the courtroom. [[Voices from the room: Quiet.]] Thank you for your help. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u24	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The Family, Senior and Social Policy Commission at its meeting on 15 November 2016 discussed the Law on the amendment of the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The purpose of amending the Senate Print Act No 338 is to derogate from the provisions of the Act of 11 May 2012 and the Supplementary Act of 23 November 2012 amending certain laws in connection with the increase of the retirement age. The first one, on 1 January 2013, increased and evened out the retirement age of women and men, setting it at a uniform level of 67 years. The second ensured consistency in the legal situation in relation to the adopted pension rules extending and aligning the retirement age of men and women, and also eliminated the prerequisite for reaching the retirement age as the only criterion for stopping or stopping the employment relationship. Act adopted by the Sejm on 16 November 2016 amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws restores the old-age pension generally applicable before 1 January 2013, i.e. 60 years for women and 65 years for men, also abolishing the so-called institution. a partial pension which would be entitled to insured persons who did not reach the retirement age fixed in 2012. The principle of the abolition of preferential retirement rights, under certain conditions, for certain groups, has been maintained in the legal state; the retirement of judges, prosecutors and farmers, until the end of 2017. The Act shall enter into force on 1 October 2017. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt the attached draft law without amendment. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u25	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u26	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The situation is quite unusual because I'm going to present two minority proposals. The committee decided that in both cases I should represent the applicants. The first and most far-reaching proposal is a motion to reject the law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a retirement age reduction law. In pensions, the whole social security system is about making it real. I mean, at a time when the insured can't take care of his own welfare, the insurance funds will allow him to function fairly. That's the way it is with every insurance. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking here about the money that they're going to get when they're done with their work. We stressed in the committee that the fundamental change in the pension system, the change that took place in the pension system, was the transition from a defined benefit to a defined contribution, speaking in human terms: from a guaranteed benefit to a benefit dependent on the amount of the contributions. This transition, which has been discussed for a very long time, has resulted in some implementation of the State's contribution to the insurance system, unfortunately at the expense of pensions. The pensions granted under the new scheme are significantly, at 1 000 and more zlotys, smaller than those previously granted, according to the old system. Therefore, in order to make the amount of these pensions that are insured at the FUS more realistic, and for a number of other reasons, we have also decided, like most of the wealthiest countries in the world and in Europe, to gradually increase the retirement age for men by one month every quarter until 2040 in the case of women. It is also a question of equalising the retirement age of men and women, meeting the recommendations of the Constitutional Court and following the principle of equal treatment in the system. Let us remember that women, although burdened with different responsibilities, lose the most in a situation where there is a significantly reduced retirement age, because at the same time the conversion rate relating to the distribution of the accumulated amount is much higher, which makes women's benefits much lower. So today, the proposal is made to reverse it. At the committee meeting, I asked three questions. I would like to submit them to you here as a justification for the motion to reject this law. The first case concerned the amount of benefits paid. We know that they will be significantly lower due to the fact that we have converted to a defined premium and do not guarantee the amount of the benefit. So I asked if the pensions of the insured would fall if we introduced a shorter retirement age than the current statutory retirement age. I have received government calculations, ladies and gentlemen, and I have reached for the previous calculations, from the time this change was made. I'd like to show you this, well, maybe you can't see it from afar... So this proposal that we've put in place, and which is still in force today, said how much in every retiring yearbook people will gain, how much women will gain, and how much men will gain... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm so sorry, Mr. Marshal. These are really large amounts, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, depending on the time of retirement, these differences for women amounted to up to 25% of the benefit, please. In terms of zlotys, it was over 700 zlotys a month. So much could be gained, of course, at some cost, at the expense of working longer. Nobody blew it up. But in this government calculation, ladies and gentlemen, it all starts with a negative... from how much less. Let's take a look at this, ladies and gentlemen, how it looks per year. Men who retire e.g. At my retirement age, they will have 500 PLN less, and women 700 PLN less, according to the government of Law and Justice. And in the following years: 600 PLN, 700 PLN, 800 PLN, 900 PLN, so that in the 1930s it would finally be over 1000 PLN less for men, and in the case of women even less. This is the essence of this proposal. And, of course, there can be no agreement to plan such a drastic reduction in pensions in Poland. Secondly, we asked about the situation on the labour market. We know they'll be coming in soon. And after the retirement age has been reduced, the demographic boom yearbooks from the 1950s will come in even earlier, huge cohorts of older people who, as we know from research, want to benefit from the right to retire. This will have a colossal impact on the labour market because, at the same time, the schools will come out of the demographic yearbooks that will not fill this gap. According to various studies, we will miss between 1.5 million and up to 4 million employees. And at that point, we're gonna put our hands together to deactivate older people who... Not all of them, because, of course, someone who is sick, disabled, has the possibility of going to a pension. But why should those who are fit not be sick leave the labour market? Why are we provoking this? Of course, someone will say that so low pensions will discourage it, but we can imagine that a strategy that has been quite dominant so far, i.e. the collection of pensions and overtime will continue. The third point is the situation of the state budget. We have to remember that we add 30% of taxes annually to the pension system, to the FUS. Of course, the state's budget doesn't have that money, because where would it get that kind of money? And when we compare the size of the budget deficit and the size of the Social Insurance Fund deficit, we can see that these are similar, sometimes identical, amounts. It is simply that the pension gap is largely responsible for the shortcomings in the state budget. And it must be said that since the introduction of this new system, the percentage increase in subsidies to the ZUS has slowed down. Why is it so important? Because we can't end up in debt. The pension obligation, please countries, is a long-term commitment, is a commitment guaranteed by the state budget. There can be no shortage of money for retirement. So it's a commitment, so if that money isn't in the budget, we're gonna be in debt. I have already mentioned here that this vector, which, because of social solidarity, was in the pension system, means that young people help older people, young people work for old people's pensions, must be reversed, because if we continue to owe ourselves, then who I ask will pay for these debts if not young people. In fact, by withdrawing this pension reform, we are speeding up the moment when either by raising social security contributions or by raising taxes or by bringing the budget to disaster, which I can't imagine Anyway, we're going to shift the cost of this move to the young generation. I see seniors a lot. I also dated them when I was defending, like now, the fact that we should The one who can work longer for a better pension. And then I appealed to the seniors I met, and now I appeal to you: let us have pity on our grandchildren, have pity on our children. They will not be able to repay this pension debt if it grows, which is inevitable, at this rate or at an even faster pace than ever before. That's why for these three reasons... Since there is no authorisation to reduce pensions in Poland, there should be no such consent, and because we cannot allow Poland to become an investment desert because of the lack of employees capable of taking up work... Let no one count on the Ukrainians who are about to get the opportunity to work throughout the European Union. We're just gonna make money on tickets. Then we have to deal with it ourselves. We don't want immigrants. What is the proposal in this regard, we have not heard. Of course, this is about the state budget situation. Ladies and gentlemen, if there were no examples of the fact that the pension system was so important to the finances of the states that it had ruined these countries, I could take the smiles of some senators in the Chamber as legitimate. But see how many times the Greeks have lowered their pensions. Please check what happened to pensions in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, many other countries, where hard words were not heard, bad words that you have to work longer to earn a pension, because we save less on it because we study not the way we used to, and we spend longer on retirement. And we are glad that Poles, like other nations, live longer. Only other nations extend retirement age. What about us? And it's psychic. I think we're gonna be the only country where retirement age goes down. Nobody does that. This is an author's patent from the government of law and justice. We believe that it is a patent for lower pensions, for labour market shortages and for a public finance disaster. That is why we are calling for this project to be rejected. However, if it did not succeed, Senator Rulewski, who is not a member of our committee, reported, and we have maintained that we want to do at least enough to make the pension conditional on an internship. [[It's gonna be even less.]] You promised it to the president, so we're trying to propose it. Hence the amendments which I am proposing if you did not hear this less of my speech, more of an appeal for reasonableness in this matter. I work in the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, with most of you for so many years, and for so many years, despite various disputes, we have tried not to mess with pensioners' money. There was an unwritten agreement that we could do things, but we couldn't play pensions because they're like math, like bills. We know how many people will retire; we know what the average life expectancy will be; we know how much more or less can be postponed; and therefore we know exactly how much pensions can be. And here there's no room for ideology, there's no room for politics, there's room for math and reason that I'm appealing for. [[Applause]] [[What about the resources at your disposal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u27	You're welcome, Senator. [[Are you checking in or not?]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] In what mode? [[Question. Can we ask questions now?]] No, not yet. We'll get to that point in a minute. All I'm asking is whether Senator Augustine has now made a motion to report them in the course of the discussion. [[When did you file the motion?]] [[What mode is it in?]] [[The proposals were made during the committee meeting.]] Oh, and you were talking about the committee meeting. [[I was talking about the committee meeting, yes.]] Okay, good. This bill was introduced by the President. To present the President's position in the course of parliamentary work... [[Voice from the room: Questions. Questions to the rapporteurs.]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek came forward first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u28	I'd like to ask you a question, Senator. The vast majority of Poles, in my opinion, for various reasons, if they have the opportunity to retire at the age of 60 or 65, they will. That's why I'm asking: what are the estimates? Have you talked about how many people can retire in the last quarter of 2017 and in 2018? I'm not talking about the next few years, but I'm talking about the whole year of 2018. And what will be the additional costs for the budget in 2017 and 2018 due to the increased number of people who retire? Did you have such an estimate of the state at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u29	One question at a time. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u30	These estimates were not carefully discussed at the committee meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u31	Thank you very much. I will read the names of those who have signed up to ask questions: Mr. Senator Majer, Mr. Senator Duda, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, Mr. Senator Komarnicki, Mr. Senator Dobkowski. Senator Major. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u32	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority, Senator Augustine. Mr. Senator, I have listened very carefully to your speech. But tell me, where does the legislator order retirement at the proposed new retirement age? I don't see a record like that. Your speech sounded like we were forcing people to retire at a new retirement age. Is there a record or not? Or do we leave this to our own sense and freedom of everyone who retires?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u33	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u34	Mr. Senator, I didn't use that phrase. What's more, I said that research shows that most people are going to want to benefit from their pension rights. So I wasn't talking about duty.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u36	Thank you. I have a question for you, Senator rapporteur. Mrs. Senator, was there any discussion during the committee's meeting before this project was put into circulation? Was there any mention of the quality of the consultation? And in the opinion of Senator Poles, do they know that after the introduction of this law, if they retire at the proposed age for women and men, they will have these pensions, as for women, by at least 1/3, 1/4 less? Is the quality of the consultation... Did the Poles stay in the senator's opinion? What did we talk about at the committee meeting, informed about what the effects of this action would be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u37	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u38	Consultations have been conducted. As far as this bill is concerned, it was indeed tabled by the President, but at the request of the people who requested that the old retirement age be restored. This is a bill. As Senator Majer said, which does not oblige everyone to retire at a given age, it only gives such a right. And from the meetings in the senators' offices, and from the consultations that were conducted with the trade unions and the solidarity, it appears that people want to retire early.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u39	Senator Duda. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u40	Thank you. You used a senator to say that she was filed at the request of the people. I think I'm human, too, and I didn't make that conclusion. I'm asking about the quality of the consultation, except for the ones you've told me about, i.e. about the calculation and the fair presentation of the case. Because we talked to the Minister at the committee meeting, and we discussed that, for example, in Germany there are very long, reliable dialogues, consultations showing the impact. Do you think the Poles know the consequences of this bill? Because I feel like we're all aspirational or we're 60 and 65 years old, and we don't know what we're gonna live for. I think we're finally gonna be customers. Our grandchildren, our children, but still we Social transfers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u41	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u42	Poles know the consequences of this law because they are informed. They are also informed that they can then get less. But it's not an art to work till death either. Biology won't fool you. And if someone thinks he's worked long enough and wants to retire because he's earned his benefits, that bill gives him a chance to retire at a decent age.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u44	Senator, on the same point, but I'd like to ask you a little bit more. How much less will the pension be after this amendment compared to what is now for a woman born in 1974 after her retirement?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u45	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u46	The exact values were not discussed at the committee meeting. So I think we can ask for the calculations and put it in writing. [[Uh-huh. I will ask the same question to the Minister.]] Yes, sir. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u47	Senator Komarnicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have two questions for you. My first question is that the consequence of this bill will be... Economists calculated that in 2040 the costs of reducing the retirement age would reach, attention, an extreme amount of PLN 50 billion and that therefore pensions would have to be, Senator, lower by 1/3. That is the result of the economic calculation. My question to you is: has any cost analysis been carried out and what is the idea of keeping pensions at least at the current level after the retirement age has been reduced? And my second question is this. I've been following you since the beginning... I'm not hiding that I'm dignified, I'm retired. And I often meet with people who have some work to do and are worried, as the senator rightly said, about your grandchildren. And that's why I'm so sorry that you're not telling the public exactly what the bill is about. Why... We know that we live longer and longer. As a result, society is getting older. Today, for one pensioner, there are 4.2 employees. And by 2030 it will be 2.6 people working for one pensioner. And it would be worth saying that this reform has such economic conditions that the pension for a woman instead of PLN 2 000 will be at most PLN 1 000 300, and for a man instead of PLN 2 000... here fortunately there will be less loss, this pension will be up to PLN 1 thousand 650. These are serious calculations and it is worth to have a debate over our country. Thank you very much for your attention, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u49	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u50	The Act introduced by the PO-PSL government in 2012 increased the retirement age in each area of the economy to sixty-seven years of age, regardless of gender. This led to a significant increase in the retirement age for farmers and workers. And because, as a result, many people, despite their willingness, could not retire early, that is to say, retirement according to old rules, or 60 years for women, 67 years for men, are young people who wanted to go to work who did not have jobs. They were forced either to go abroad or to register as unemployed. That's why we want to get back to normal, give young people a chance to work so that these young people can actually work for pensioners. The calculations, which Mr. Senator was kind enough to give me here. They are applied to the current standards, to the present value of our income. However, I think that we need to take into account that the pension law discussed here also makes it easier for young people to work. And it gives people an opportunity to retire at an age that allows them to still benefit from this pension. Because many people who worked until the age of sixty-five were hoping to retire and enjoy their home, their family, their children, their rest for a few more years. And when the work was extended by two years for men and seven years for women, it caused many limitations. That is why I believe that the opportunity to withdraw this increase in the retirement age is a chance for these people to benefit from retirement. Because, like I said, what if I get any money if I can't use it anymore? And if it is, for example. farmers, it hit them even more because there women had a chance to retire at the age of 55 and men at the age of 60.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dobkowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u52	Thank you very much. Since the senator is on the stand, maybe I'll ask the senator first and then Senator Augustine later. Senator, I may have a simple question, but I'm gonna ask it. Will a woman who at the age of 60 benefit from this bill and retire be less than a woman who retires at the age of 67 and if so, how much less? That's a question for the senator. I'll ask Senator Augustine a second question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u53	As far as values are concerned, I'm not exactly able to answer that question. I'm sure she'll have a smaller pension, but if she wants to, if she wants a higher pension, she'll have a chance to work on it. Age 65, 60 or 67 is not the limit age, because there are people who exceed this age and continue to work. And this bill gives them the opportunity. It's about being able to retire early if someone wants to take advantage of it. This is not a compulsion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u54	Thank you very much. [[I have another question for Senator Augustine.]] Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u55	Mr Senator, Mr Minority Rapporteur of the Commission... [[Who are you talking to?]] Senator Augustin, rapporteur of the minority committee. Don't you see the contradiction between what you said, praising the present state and calling for this increased retirement age to be maintained, and the amendments to the minority of the committee that you have tabled and which are actually going in the opposite direction, because they are further reducing this age in relation to this procedated law? Don't you see the contradiction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u56	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u57	This is not an amendment that fully reflects my belief that nothing should be changed in the pension system at the moment, except what you have already done and what is commendable, i.e. the systematic increase in the lowest pensions and the lowest pensions. Nevertheless, we would like to see those who have worked very long and have contributed a great deal to the pension system have the opportunity to leave with the current retirement age. This would be a kind of compromise between maintaining the current retirement age and certain requirements regarding the duration of the contribution period, which would guarantee an acceptable amount after retirement. Maybe not decent, but acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also related to the fact that the yearbooks of the late 1970s and early 1980s in Europe are often called And in Poland, unfortunately, also, as we have already talked about here. A lost generation because they had to enter the labour market at the worst time when there was the highest unemployment. Many of these people have not found a job, so there is no required premium period. Unfortunately, they must work as long as possible to get anything, and they should not necessarily be treated according to the same measure as those who were lucky to work all the time and put aside a decent amount in the pension system to divide into more years of life after reaching retirement age. This amendment, as I was saying, was filed by Senator Rulewski. Seeing that it would be rather difficult to stop your efforts to reduce the retirement age, he reported it as something that would meet your arguments, which the senator also presented. Perhaps this would be acceptable to a group as well as to the pension system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u58	I'm asking you to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u59	Mr. Senator, but you didn't answer my question because... you're saying that the amendment concerns a law that is in force right now, and you'd like to change the state that it is now. And the amendments are made to the draft new law, which is simply to this law, which reduces the retirement age. And you want to increase that effect because you want some people to benefit from it. You told me you wanted to change... to your current state, but that's not a possibility at the moment. We proceed with the new bill, amendments are submitted to the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u60	Mr Senator, this amendment is quite extensive and amends the existing rules in such a way that it restores the basic retirement age, the higher one, making an exception to those who had a very large contribution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur's senator a question. Senator, I have a question about... We're talking about retirement age, but we're not talking about contribution years at all. During the work, didn't the discussions in the committee come up with proposals that would also talk about the contribution period, about how the citizen of the Polish State participates in the creation of contributions? Then the height... would, of course, be appropriate to that premium period. That's my first question. The second point is related to the extension of life, with the length of life of Poles. Women in Poland live on average This is the result of the data I came to 81.6 years old and men 73.8 . On average, we live in Poland 77.4 years. This means that women who retire at the age of 60 will live on average 21 years and 6 months, while men 7.4 years old. It shows that the passage... I agree. I got it. With what the senator has repeatedly said: this is the sovereign decision of each of us, of each Polish woman and of each Pole. And since ladies will be able to function for more than 21 years, don't you think that such a drastic reduction in benefits will result in only existence? This is not enough: it will expose the Polish state to further social transfers. The second part of the question relates to the activity of Poles in the labour market. We know that we have a serious problem with demographics, hence your proposal, which is the 500+ programme, but there is no consistency here. Then I'll ask you this question, Minister. On the one hand, you say that you focus on demographic growth, you launch the 500+ program, and on the other hand you say: we do not want to take advantage of the potential of Poles and Poles... After all, we're getting better, our health is getting better. Look at the excellent condition the senators are in, ladies and gentlemen. Still active, brilliant, well-prepared, want to be active professionally The Polish state says: we do not want to benefit from this potential. Why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u63	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u64	Maybe I'll start with that first question. The issue of the premium period was discussed. There were representatives of the Solidaritys, who spoke on this subject, during the work on this law was also considered. There are two factors that determine the premium period. At the moment there is a very large group of people who for many years have been employed for the so-called. junk contracts, and they will be paid at age, say, 80 years or even later, so for them this premium period will have no meaning. In the case of persons who have already reached this period, the premium period would be an additional burden for the State budget. So the fact that at the moment only the retirement age range will be processed will simply be more realistic to apply. [[And that third thread, Senator, 500+ a...]] Maybe it's just a matter of women and men... [[Okay, here you go.]] I don't know if you've considered that some of the women in this group haven't worked, so they won't have any benefits. It is possible that they will receive these benefits and longer, but most women also raise children One, two or more And she worked at the same time. So I don't think it's gonna be any burden on the state if these women are able to retire early because they've certainly earned a fair wage for their retirement. And activation in the labour market. I think that, as far as the Ministry is concerned, the possibility of employment in the labour market for young people is indeed being considered. And if the 500+ programme brings the results that were planned, in a dozen years, young people will be able to work calmly and pay contributions to those who have already worked in their lives. [[Senator Waldemar Sługocki: Can I have a quick question?)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u65	Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u66	One sentence, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much. And if Although I keep my fingers crossed, I'm very honest with you, Senator, for the 500+ program, although I would have modified it a little bit. But if the 500+ programme does not bring hope, we will not notice a significant increase in the number of births of Poles and Poles... [[Twice 500+.]] ...so what about it? I understand that at a later time horizon, whoever will rule in Poland will wonder how to increase the retirement age in order to look for hands to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u67	I think we should get back to biology. Our activity and our efficiency with age are, unfortunately, falling. And that's why, if we leave our jobs and the younger people are in our place... [[But I'm just asking what if it doesn't.]] ...that's them... They will, I can assure you they will. So these people will certainly earn our pensions better than we do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u68	Please be so firm, Senator, not to provide, because as the experience of Western Europe, Sweden, Scandinavia shows, but not only, Germany, France, Italy, this demographic growth is not optimistic at all. So don't close up like that... I'm rather inclined to believe those who claim that this growth will not be created on the level we probably all wish for. So I think we will have to revise our approach to the age of turning Poles to rest, for example for this simple reason that we will need still active, competent people on the labour market. And I think that the length of life of Poles will be much greater, and our condition will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u69	That wasn't the committee's job. But I am sure that Poles will develop, young people will stay with us and work for our pensions. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u70	Thank you very much. Like I've said many times, I'm trying to get the person asking the questions to run out of their thread, so this is a constant thing. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u71	Maybe I'll see the Senator rapporteur first. Swiss do not want a minimum wage of PLN 13.7 thousand. 77% spoke in a referendum against. They believe that this will contribute to an increase in unemployment. For this reason, they have made an appropriate information campaign. I'd like to know if it's expected. Did you discuss this? An information campaign on the consequences of this law for pensioners. It's a shame she didn't take place before what we're discussing. Well, because it's very important. Senator Dobkowski asked you what kind of pension a woman would get when she was 60 years old. And that could be nicely shown in this campaign: that woman I'm answering to you, sir. At the age of 60 with the average national salary as it is now, she will have a pension of PLN 1 thousand 500, and if she works until the age of 67, she will have PLN 3 000 500. And that's the difference. It's worth making everyone aware of that, and it's worth showing them in this campaign. But will she be? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u73	The matter of the information campaign was not discussed at the committee meeting, but certainly, if you address the Minister, this will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u74	Do you have any more questions for the senator? Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u75	During the committee's work, the rapporteur showed great practical knowledge of the environment in which she worked, namely doctors and nurses. Then I will limit the question to these issues and hope that you will answer them. How do you imagine the pension rate of a nurse who only works 20 years and earns 1 thousand 700 PLN? How much would such a pension be, and how much would you give this pension without stealing from others? That's the first question. You mentioned, in fact, you calmed down that there's no problem with the job market, because no one who has protection... no such candidate for retirement will ever be fired. That's the truth. But where did it come from that one-third of your nurses' friends stayed, politely speaking, out on trash deals? Do you know this phenomenon? I don't think so. And the third question. You tried to convince the High House. That was in answer to Senator Komarnicki's question. That there will be no problem if half of the people are retired and half will work. I will agree with you if you indicate the source of funding for pensions of this half, or if you agree to the statement that these pensions will be at the level of PLN 100. That's clearly where it's headed, because they're already paid for it. [[100 zloty pension? I didn't hear that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u76	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u77	I'll answer you one at a time, I won't be mean. As far as nurses are concerned, I can assure you that nurses working in my health care facility don't earn $1,000 500, but a lot more. [[I said $1,000 700.]] One thousand 700 zlotys don't make money either. [[Gross? Net?]] [[$3,000, Jack.]] It's not net, it's not gross. As far as the job of nurses is concerned, I actually talked to her at the committee meeting. The nursing community is closest to me when it comes to my professional work, but the issue of early retirement also concerns, for example. teachers, as well as men, e.g. Firefighters or cops. It's about those who, at some age, aren't so powerful that they're totally, 100% meet all professional requirements. I said it was really hard for a nurse at 67 to do intravenous injections, to carry a patient. It's work overpowering for her, she's really not able to work over her abilities. Trash deal. Well, I don't think the question is for me, because it was your government that gave permission to use these trash deals so that nurses would be hired in this way. My nurses mostly have their own business, and they make decent money out of their own business. [[Thank you very much.]] I don't know if I missed anything... [[They work at the hospital? At the state hospital?]] [[I'll answer to Janek right away.]] No, not at the state hospital, just at the clinic. But the ability to make money and at the hospital, and at the clinic, depends on the employer. I think it will also mobilize employers to pay their employees fairly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u78	Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u79	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the two rapporteurs questions, but perhaps you first. That's the question that a dozen different people sent to my office e-mail box, and it's about the same case. The question is the following. There are people who have acquired pension rights and are still working. As it's said, they go by the old wallet, that is, they work, they get paid, but they have no restrictions on the salary of the pension. Their concern is related to the amendment of this law, which sets certain remuneration thresholds depending on the amount of the pension, including the fact that at one of those thresholds I don't specifically quote it because I don't want to give false numbers. They may be threatened by the suspension of their pension, the need for it to be suspended. Does this law guarantee those who have acquired pension rights and receive remuneration according to the so-called wallet... I mean, does it concern them, to the extent that they will also be threatened to take away this pension or to suspend it? Will this bill work backwards, or will it operate from the moment it enters into force? I would also ask for an answer from Senator Augustine, if, of course, you have raised such problems or wondered about this during the committee's deliberations. If this wasn't the subject of the committee's deliberations, I'm taking the floor and I'm gonna ask the Minister. I'd ask you to sign me up so I can ask the minister that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u80	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u81	This was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, so that you would actually address this question to the Minister. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What about Senator Augustine?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u82	Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u83	According to my point of view, this law does not change the existing rules, so it does not encourage to earn enough to exceed the thresholds, which, unfortunately, result in a reduction in benefits, of course in the case of those who retire early. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: If I may, Mr Marshal, I would ask you to enroll me in the Minister's question. I'd ask him to answer that question. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u84	Yes, of course. You'll be the first person to ask questions. Senator Rooster. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u85	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a question for Senator Augustine. Are you imagining the Senator of the pilot's woman? And they're like this. on the boeingach Who runs the plane, where are 120 people and more, at 67? [[By bus. What's the point of a plane?]] Can you imagine a surgeon, at least doctors of all specialties who are 67 years old? Can you imagine if I went to my profession, my maneuvering industry, the train driver who runs Pendolino's super-quick trains and who's 67 years old? Can you imagine a 67-year-old dancer at the Grand Theatre? Let's talk about the arguments... one of the senators was talking about the health of society, which is why I'm asking a specific question. Isn't that... [[Come on.]] People are very pleased with this proposal to reduce their age, especially women. So that's such a specific question for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u86	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u87	Thank you. These questions, of course, have already been asked at a time when we were making this change in the pension system. Some of those questions... Here's what I'm gonna say. In order to objectively approach which professions should be covered by the early retirement scheme, the institute concerned. He was the one who presented to us these professions which, in the opinion of scientists, including doctors, should be subject to a special privilege of moving to early retirement. And some of those professions you mentioned are covered by this possibility. So I want to reassure you: you don't need that imagination here because there's no need for that. But it was often raised, of course, this argument, known, old, it can be said that somehow well-conceived, that currently the pension system does not apply to workers who work in one place all their lives. It is present in the research a common and accepted opinion that those who are coming after us, the younger generation, will change their work 5 and 10 times throughout their lives. So, obviously, talking about somebody out there for the rest of their lives being somewhere... I assure you, sir. Well, if we want to start the imagination, It's going to happen very rarely. And when it comes to doctors and surgeons, believe me, a good operator, who is in good health and is even 70, is very successful, and everyone clings to him and doesn't want anyone else. Of course, it depends on your health. And no more joking, I'm gonna say that if someone because of a bad health condition can't do their job, then After all, we are talking about the pension scheme, which can seek a pension or, unfortunately, seek another job. What is a big flaw in this bill is that you are betting on the fact that older people will be making extra money, and you are not making it easier for them to do so and help them in this matter. So that is my answer, perhaps less relating to imagination, and more about the calculations of the team working under the direction of Professor Koradecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u88	Thank you very much. Senator Major. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u89	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur. I'd like to get back to the demographic. According to research, at the moment a man lives an average of 73 years. The question is therefore: was there also a discussion during the committee's deliberations about the length of life and the shortening of the retirement age period? Because in fact, a person who has a chance of surviving a statistically 73-year-old, and a lot of men didn't really live through this pension for physical reasons... If a man lives to 73 years of age, some die at 60, 62, 64 years of age; often at that age, they die. So, really, a change of law gives us a chance to get at least some men to retire. Was this also the subject of the committee's deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u91	There was a conversation about it. There was a conversation about the average age of men and women being much higher than they were before. Indeed, this law gives us the opportunity to make at least a little use of the money that has accumulated over the years of its work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u93	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for both rapporteurs. Senator first. Does the senator think that the unification of the retirement age for women and men is right in our culture, in our tradition? Is it 67 years that have been established in the previous term also for women, not contradicting this tradition of ours, and that women have at least to fulfil, potentially, very important for social reasons, but also incriminating them and their health, and their strength, their parental function? Is it appropriate, then, to vary the age of men and women to retire? That's the first question. And second question. How did the senator evaluate those programs that were being introduced, to activate seniors, and they turned out to be a failure? These programs 50+, 55+, etc., etc.? Unfortunately, statistics show that the number of unemployed people over the age of 60 has been increasing for at least three years. So it's not so easy to find a job or stay in the labour market for people who should potentially remain on the labour market for seven more years. Is it not justified, however, to allow older people, after sixty years of age, to retire because their situation in the labour market is difficult?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u94	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u95	Maybe I'll start with the second question. Indeed, programmes that activate older people and enable people over the age of fifty or fifty-five to work have not worked, because the workplace always wants an employee who is more efficient... [[What's the most efficient?]] ...so he automatically hires young workers faster, and it is best that the employee is young, beautiful, with the right professional internship and has e.g. 25 or 30 years. I am joking, but in fact in some workplaces these requirements are simply impossible to meet by a little older workers. It is well known that this also depends on what kind of work it is, how the work is done, but these programs have not been successful. When it comes to the first question concerning the role of women in our country and in our culture, I must say that a woman in Poland has always been surrounded by a particular estimate, all the more so because most women raised their children, and then, after 60 years of age, after retirement, often took care of their grandchildren. It is well known that when a woman retires at the age of 67, she is already maximized by the workplace and no longer has the strength or patience to take care of her grandchildren. As far as women's work and raising children are concerned, many women have worked and raised children. Most of the time, women were taking care of their children. Men were tasked with caring for the house, caring for the house, bringing money, making money, and women had to devote some of their time to their children. True, times have changed, and most of them... [[Do you have children?]] I have a daughter who's young and has four children, and I think she's gonna be working for your senator as well... [[Not grandkids. Whether or not you have a baby.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And you're here instead of taking care of the kids.]] [[I'm sorry, but this is not a discussion between senators.]] [[Don't drag the Senator rapporteur into the discussion.]] [[Quiet, please.]] When it comes to taking care of children, there are many men who can do a lot at home, but in our culture it is assumed that it is the woman who is the person who mainly takes care of the house, so if she has to take care of everything and take care of everything, she must also have time for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u96	Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[There were questions for me, too.]] [[I'm gonna...]] Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u97	Let me answer these two questions. The first one is particularly, double accurate, but probably not because of the reason that maybe it was intended. Well, since you're raising the question of older people's employment, it's fair to say that if I know the statistics well, The number of older people who find it difficult to take up employment... I mean, not retired people, just 50+ people. It is indeed a relatively increasing group, but it is a little statistical effect that the number of young and middle-aged people who have found employment is, fortunately, falling. So of course it is that when on the labour market the employer has to choose Just like the senator said. In the first place, between young or middle-aged workers and older workers, he chooses those. And we see it in statistics, and that's what happens. So, of course, it's appropriate to note that more needs to be done. I think that was two and a half years ago when we were updating labour market instruments. And we introduced, in this 50+ programme, additional incentives in the form of instruments that would encourage employers to employ older people, including a reduction in their pension contributions for some time and with a surcharge, even a subsidy in the case of older people's employment. But for now. the effect has not yet been seen. Maybe it's just a short time, and maybe it hasn't gone that far yet. But that was a double correct question. Firstly, if you take seriously what you are saying, in this law a huge chapter should be devoted to how we want to help these people. On the other hand, there is a question: how can you argue well, seniors will earn money and at the same time say that they can't make money? Well, there's something to hold on to. Either they're gonna make money because they can, or they won't, because they can't. So these are really two goals to the same goal, but to your goal. Oh, when it comes to changing the model of Polish families, she actually... This image, so warmly presented by the senator, is perhaps the object of the sighs of many of us, but it is a description of the unfortunately passing situation. The best evidence is the senator who's here among us. He doesn't take care of his grandchildren, but he works. [[And Prime Minister Szydło.]] And many other people we see who are on a candlestick, but who are also found in everyday life. Women today are willing and more likely to take up employment, not because they have to, or not just because they have to, although often because But it's also because they want to. And they're entitled to it. And that's why we're together, together with you, they've adopted here. After a big discussion about what is our longing and what is our reality . programmes that allowed to combine professional work with care. So that the grandmothers that were mentioned here could continue to work if they wanted to. And that's what happens. It is a pity that, as a result of one move, the withdrawal of six-year-olds from school, such a large group of families who would like to put their grandchildren or their children in kindergarten, will not be able to do so in the coming years. But I think the local governments are going to keep going in that direction. There's also daycare, so it's doing a little bit to adapt to the new model of the family. Maybe our generation doesn't like it so much, but it's not the point of us making people's lives, it's the point of helping them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u98	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u99	Questions to both Senators of the rapporteurs. Do you think that the conditions have changed so much? And what conditions have changed? They would justify the revision of the retirement age change, not only of age change but of age alignment, which entered into force in 2013? This is the first one. And to the senator of the rapporteur... Here I am happy to note that under your supervision or in the hospital where you work, you are doing business under the supervision of your employer and you are doing well. It's a strange design of a working relationship, unknown in law, but I'm not gonna report it. The question is of a different kind. In response to Mr Komarnicki's question, you argued to the High House that there would be no financial problem when half of the people were retired and half would work, including some of them. Let's assume that, because maybe not all of them. Only 20 years. Can you point to the source of this quadratic circle? Where will the money come from to keep this ratio? And a second question for you. Yeah, that's a very nice question, 'cause you're kind of family, for apologizing, politically. The trade unions represented by Mr Duda, with whom Mr Duda signed the pact, strongly rejected Mr Duda's position in the part concerning non-recognition of traineeships, piers So this was about the hard work of the nurses' ladies. and a real increase in pensions through an increase in wages. Why did you and your colleagues reject this position as a trade union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u100	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u101	I'll start with the second question. As far as the position of trade unions is concerned, at the committee's meeting the trade unions presented their position, but during the procedure of a specific law, I think we must follow the realities, so not everything can be introduced at the same time. A revolution has been introduced, namely an extended retirement age. In Germany, they plan to extend their retirement age even more. But our society... [[They didn't think of it.]] ...is a society that has worked in such difficult conditions for many years... Because many citizens actually had very difficult working conditions, and these are people who are now looking forward to retirement as salvation. So I think we're giving them a chance. If anyone has the strength, they want to work longer, but if anybody wants to And really, believe me, a lot of people have asked me when this retirement age will finally be restored if these people just want to retire, they won't have to, but they will. About the change of circumstances... [[First of all, as far as the terms are concerned, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u102	Of course. Please. [[That's the first question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u103	Do you think the shore conditions, i.e. the necessary ones, have changed, the introduction of an extended age pension scheme and the alignment of age in 2013? Can you indicate which conditions have changed to allow this system to be revised?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u104	That wasn't really the subject of the discussion. [[My amendment...]] My opinion on changing conditions is that they haven't substantially changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u105	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u106	Mr. Senator, this first question is best answered by a statement of reasons. And for example, on page 24 I read that: The labour market and the public health system were not and are still not prepared to extend the working life of the insured, because there is a high level of unemployment. I don't know when it was meant to be, but probably not today, not now. Or it is that the same ministry once considers this level to be the lowest since 1991 to be high, and another time it considers it to be a success and a very low level. I believe that much has changed in the labour market, has changed positively and that this trend should continue to be maintained. And maybe that would also be a chance for pensioners. So, in answering this question to the senator, I can say that, in my opinion, the Minister, justifying the need for this law, did not point to any change which was at the heart of the previous reform. The same arguments were repeated that we took into account in that debate in 2012. When it comes to where the money is going to come from and how many of them are going to be, the senator has already answered that question... How much, we didn't exactly hear, even though I was asking the question. The answer was this: it's in the government's position. However, we did not have this position in committee materials. And where would the money come from? Well, I'm afraid we haven't heard that. But I think it's gonna be the same as before, which means it's gonna affect... The money will come from the state budget and this will affect the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u107	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u108	I'm the one who might be calling for Senator Augustine. As if the senator could remain... Mr. Senator, the current life expectancy, like the senator. He served us here, 81.6 years for men and 73.8 years for women. [[The other way around.]] Excuse me, of course, 73.8 years for men, 81.6 years for women. For the last 20 or 25 years I'm sure the Minister will know exactly. As I recall, she has increased by about 8 years. If it were assumed that... with regard to the reform that was carried out, women would have reached that retirement age in 2040, which is 25 years from now. So, if we assume that during these current governments, the rule of law and justice, which also places great importance on health, etc., this rate will continue, then the average age will then be around 90 years. Now count your pension... This is the capital we've accumulated over the course of our employment. We're gonna do the math anyway. Well, and now it turns out that if we go back to the age of 60 and 65, we can expect pensions to be low. I gave Senator Dobkowski an example here that a woman who retires at the age of 60 will get 1 thousand 500 PLN, and a woman who retires at the age of 67 3 000 500 PLN. In the case of men, this is it. There's a slightly smaller difference, because it's known that men would only work two years longer. Therefore, we can expect that pensions will be lower in the coming years and will fall. Therefore, the question to the senator: will there not be more beneficiaries of social assistance? Did you talk about it? Isn't it just going to be that because pensions are going to be so low, one way or another, you're going to have to leave the money in the budget, secure the money for social assistance?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u110	Mr. Senator, this issue has been discussed. When it comes to such a general picture, it was not just about how much we would need to spend. The Minister also stressed that there would be some revenue, from those who would still work, etc. But at the same time, we were also picking up Although these were just individual statements, That question you're talking about. There is no doubt that a group of seniors with the lowest benefits will grow. It will grow for a number of reasons, and after this solution has been introduced Even faster than you'd expect. There is already an increase in the number of seniors who require social assistance. True, it is a group that continues to benefit most from social assistance. But I remember it was 6%. And now, as far as I know, it's already 8%. So if such progress continues, the burden of the social assistance system will increase rapidly, I suppose. Mr. Senator, how can it be otherwise, when in 2060 I give for the calculations which I received personally from the Minister, the pension of a man will be lower by PLN 2 000 981?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u111	Mr. Senator Grabowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. First of all, I would like to address my question to Senator Orzechowska, the Senator of the rapporteur. I will refer to the questions asked earlier, to the doubts of Senator Majer and Senator Rooster. Well, because we're focusing too much here after all... The opposition is too focused on the financial aspect. I would like to ask the senator as a doctor, but, of course, also as a senator rapporteur, about medical considerations. I was, in effect, provoked to ask this question by Senator Sługocki, who drew attention here to the Senate sitting room, to senators who have already reached retirement age and are in quite good condition. I'd like the senator medically, physiologically, to compare his work, his productivity, for example. an intellectual or an official, or even a senator and e.g. an employee who works with a shovel or pickaxe at the age of 60 years 8 hours at the construction site. Would you be able to make such a comparison, tell them what medical reasons they can decide, that, however, we cannot put everyone in one bag, compare all people of a given age, treat them in the same way?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u113	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u114	I'm sure that when it comes to medical reasons, physical work is very incriminating. Next thing you know, it's a mental burden. Because it's kind of a so-called action. a mental worker, as it used to be described, or, let's say, an accountant or someone who works under a lower mental burden, is not comparable to a mental worker's work, which, for example. He's a judge, a prosecutor, and he's got an extra psychic burden. And it should actually also decide on the possibility of earlier or later retirement. That is why I think that it is very important that we give the opportunity to retire and not introduce the need to move on to it. If this person does less incriminating work or let's say less incriminating, because everyone is incriminating, then he has the opportunity to work longer. On the other hand, if this person does very hard work, it is e.g. a miner working underground, who is exposed to pylica, who is also exposed to a lot of psychological burdens because he, when he goes down, is never sure that he will return upstairs, for example. A paramedic who, going to a patient, never knows if he's going to go and it's just gonna be necessary to do some diagnostics, take him to the ward, or he's gonna have to start resuscitating suddenly, which requires a lot of physical effort, not to mention the need to transport the patient in different states to the hospital... But like I said, there's also a nurse's job or a teacher's job, who works with children and regardless of the age of a child, whether she's six or seven years old, when there's early teaching, and when that child actually treats that teacher like a second mother and often your teacher's opinion is more important than the parent's opinion, because that's his main authority... The point is that this person should be able and patient enough, physically and physically, and mentally, to work well in a given position. A little bit different is the matter of academics, and this has also been included in this bill, because people who have acquired the right status have become professors... Then there is automatically a chance to retire later because these people are able to make use of their scientific potential and share it with the next generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u115	Thank you, Senator. I'm sorry, but I'm not gonna take the floor, but I'm gonna ask you a question about the committee meeting. If this was not the subject of the meeting and there was no such data by the Ministry made available or communicated to the Senate committee, then I will simply ask the Minister for this reply. But first, I'm gonna ask you. Is there a known number of potential pensioners who did not live to see their pension as a result of changes, i.e. an increase in the retirement age? Was this the data the Ministry operated on? Because the Senators of the Platform are very worried about the fact that they're paying contributions to the Social Security Office, aren't they? The people paid contributions, the retirement age was raised and those people did not live to that pension benefit, i.e. de facto their contributions were distributed. I'd like to know if such data was given. And if you don't, I'll ask the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u116	Such data was not given at the time. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question. [[And how much Balcerowicz's plan...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u118	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Although I only wanted to address the senator, but after this interesting... No, no, that'll be a question for you. I'm sorry to show you this. As a person approaching this age and those problems you have said so beautifully about, speaking of which, actually, an older man is no longer fit for anything, I would like to ask you something. I see Minister Duda has the data in one finger, but I have to check it out. As I look at the map of Europe, I see that apart from such important countries as Estonia, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova, I understand that we are now joining them. Everyone else is going... [[...in the opposite direction.]] ...in the opposite direction. Don't they know what you said so beautifully here? Well, I think you should patent what you're saying, because this Europe is really going down. And I'd like to ask you what you think. Isn't it a good idea for the Polish Parliament to invite the parliaments of other countries of the European Union here and give them this great lecture on the harmfulness of the old age? I'm saying this as a person who's already approaching this age. Well, I'm really enchanted by this performance, and I think I'll take it into account. Second question... Oh, Mr. Senator, I'll ask you a question later, in a minute, once the senator answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u119	So when it comes to the harmfulness of retirement age, I assure you, this is not a harmful age for anyone. And the point is, he's not harmful. I think we don't always have to rely on financial, economic data. Sometimes it is also necessary to take care of other aspects, sometimes not money is the most important. There are other values that are more necessary than he is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u120	Mr. Marshal, can I correct you? Mrs. Senator, I may seem like somebody who thinks only of money, but I can assure you that's not my domain... [[Fun in the room]] ...at least in the sense of having them, because in the sense of knowing Yeah. I'd like to rephrase that. I mean, the rest of Europe, regardless of your views. I didn't say anything about money going in exactly the opposite direction than we did. Well, I'd like your opinion on that. [[Stupid Germans will work until they're seventy years old.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u121	Working conditions in some countries were slightly different than working conditions with us. I'm still gonna stand by mine. When it comes to money, I don't think we should look into each other's pockets because sometimes you can make a mistake. Just because someone looks like they have money doesn't necessarily mean they have money. And when it comes to taking care of... I think we also care about families, so that they have a chance to maintain some intellectual communication with children, with their grandchildren. Multigenerational families in Poland for many years were very pitied, and later this extended working time made contacts difficult for some families. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u122	If you allow me, I will develop this thread and ask you to reflect on the conditions under which we worked in Poland in the 1980s or even in the 1990s, and under which conditions workers worked in Germany, France, the United Kingdom. Think about it. They were completely different workplaces, different cars, different conditions. It matters even after a few decades. I'm very, very serious. Ladies and gentlemen, now... [[I have another question for the senator.]] Oh, to see the senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u123	Mr. Marshal, before you stand by the speaker, I'd like to say two words. Of course, I share your view and I am a keen supporter of this thesis that Poles are beginning to live in better conditions, not only since 2015, but since 15 and 20 years. [[Ten years.]] Well, 10 years, then. I didn't want this to coincide with the Civic Platform government, but it just happened to be covered. Mr. Marshal, I mean, I'm not questioning that. And that is why I am not talking about the fact that the level of pensions in Poland is supposed to be today, now, suddenly like in highly developed countries, because for the reasons that Mr Marshal spoke about, I fully agree with this and it should be taken into account... But I was asking about... [[A much shorter week of work in France...]] Yes, sir, many aspects... But I'm going to ask Senator Augustine a question. Senator, knowing your commitment to the subject, experience and knowledge, also looking at what is being done in other European countries, without taking into account what we have just discussed with the marshal here, but... As you asked Senator Rooster, an experienced man, a union man who saw a lot of things, on the one hand... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I want to ask you what your opinion is on this subject. In these other countries... So, there's no pilots, no nurses, no doctors? How do they deal with pilots when they're 65? Do you have any idea how they're doing in there? Or is it that these young people come from other countries? I'd like a few words about this, just how these countries deal with the problems that Senator Rooster was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u124	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u125	Before I answer, maybe I'll tell you this anecdote. I was invited to a police meeting on their holiday and asked for their wishes. They said they'd want their pensions to be better and better. I asked them if they wanted these pensions to be the same as in Germany. They said, "Oh, oh, yeah! At least that's the way it is. And I asked them if they knew how many German policemen had to work. They said no. I'm the one who informed them until they were sixty-seven. [[And they're already retired by the age of thirty-nine.]] This is often the answer to the fact that complaining about different groups and the pressure of trade unions... Not now, only in the 1980s, the Polish People's Republic didn't have anything to give then, it gave away privileges, and for this reason we are witnessing such a paradox that a man who worked so many years gets so low pension and asks: where is my money? Maybe they're in and out of the army of senior pensioners. And that's why there's no money in the ZUS, even though each of us pays a lot. It is worth remembering this, not to tell anyone that he has exercised his authority, but to know why this money is so desperately lacking. The platform tried to make it right in its sense of responsibility by imitating other countries. I was just kidding myself, too, saying that since we're smarter than everyone else, maybe it's worth the patent... Whatever, Mr. Marshal. 'Cause these are similar questions or similar issues. On the grounds that you and Senator Orzechowska are hard to deny, as regards working conditions in the past, we are talking today not so much about the past as... [[The future.]] ...about the future. See what these tables contain. They include the years of our children first. Yes, my yearbook would be working until the age of sixty-seven, which will be in 2020. The first year, because so far no one in Poland has to work until this age. So this is a process that takes a little bit into account what the marshal said. We're in it slowly, for example. in the case of women until 2040, ladies and gentlemen. I wish you all health and hope that we will meet with any of you in 2040 to verify how it is that a woman in Poland works until she is sixty-seven years old. It will be a matter of a completely different generation, which already works under different conditions, under better conditions. I think... let's look at the future in this case, design for the future, and learn from those who have entered these demographic problems before we have. What Mr Senator quoted, when listing these countries, shows that those who joined the European Union later, have not yet dealt with certain matters, which does not mean that they will not do so in a moment and will not be forced to do so like everyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, no one here is talking about giving out candy, bonuses, but we are seriously wondering what the retirement of a man who retires in 2030 should be like. Whether it is to be an average for a woman of PLN 3 thousand 250 or just 2 thousand 275 gross, i.e. almost PLN 1 thousand less, i.e. by almost 25% less. At that time, the prices will probably be different, and the costs will be different, so this average pension should keep up with all this, and if it gets smaller, it will certainly drive us into poverty. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u126	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u127	I'd just like to ask... The senator of the minority rapporteur started the topic, and then, so to speak, he went wide that he didn't answer my question, so I'd like to ask you one more time... [[I'm sorry.]] Senator, do you know how in those countries I mentioned as an example they deal with the problem of a 67-year-old pilot and so on?? Can you... [[But he doesn't know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u128	This is what I pointed out, Mr. Senator, as a flaw in this solution. There are really large government programs that allow older people to find themselves in the labour market, often in the same fields, in the same companies they worked in, but in other positions. I'm going back to the cops. After all, in the police almost half are civil support workers and there is nothing to prevent older policemen from running after criminals at the age of 67; no one will give them such a reasonable task. Same here at the airports. Each of us is there and knows that pilots are the least numerous group of airport workers, so there is no obstacle to these people working on other, very responsible and well-paid positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I ask the senator of the minority rapporteur to make it sound like it. That question has already appeared here. Is Mr. Senator as We've noticed it, and everyone knows it. The enthusiast of these issues knows at least one country in the world, and I am already missing a Europe that plans to reduce retirement age? Because if I can continue for a while more, in such countries that are synonymous with wealth, a synonym for peace, a synonym for good social, a safe life, I mean the United States, Canada or Germany. Everywhere they plan, all the forecasts show that... in the United States they plan to raise from 66 years to 68 years, in Canada From 65 to 67, in Norway they also plan to raise, in Germany, as Minister Schäuble says, they consider 71 years or even 73 years. [[Up to 100.]] So what can be justified is that beyond security... Why is today considered only a proposal that we know about? Will it be dangerous for the state budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u131	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u132	Minister, during the committee meeting, I paid attention to the fact that no one is doing this... In fact, from a political point of view, regardless of the electoral promises, those who have made a difficult reform are, after taking power, appreciated by the successors for not having to do this anymore. We realized how much the price would most likely come to us. I remember the discussion here. Nothing was pressing us, nothing dramatic was happening to do it. If we've considered anything, it's the future of our children, the future of our grandchildren and our chances of good old age. And other countries take such issues into account. And at this point, we're just taking a step backwards just because that's what the promises were. Many promises of law and justice have been made, and they have not kept them. And it wouldn't have happened if, in such a serious matter, we at least wanted to give ourselves time to think, to think, to have a long discussion and to say openly, as we do in referendums... The President has proposed here to include this issue in the referendum. I would be very much in favour, but then I voted against... only then it was in the package. It was in the package very many, in my opinion, often completely unnecessary questions. If only there was this question, and if it were to be put honestly... Whoever wants to see what I've been saying to Minister Sadurska here. If the question were this: do you agree to go to early retirement, knowing that in 2060 women's pension would be 3 000 PLN lower, and in 2030 by 1126 PLN etc., and the same for men, I would be in favour. That's a fair question. And let the Poles answer. But now you're not proposing it. That's too bad. [[But we offered...]] Yes, Mr. Senator. But if it were the only question, it would be a different matter. Of course, you remember... [[But thank you, Senator.]] [[Are you Senator...]] So that I am very surprised by this movement, Minister, because he is, in my opinion, an exception. Because it's not like you don't know where the money comes from... [[From the ATM.]] ...which are brought to our pensioners by the Social Insurance Institution, as punctually, as precisely as in Poland. It's just our money. ♪ Those who work ♪ And the ones we're borrowing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u133	That's it? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u134	I now have a question for the senator of the rapporteur. May I, Mr. Marshal? [[Yeah, yeah. Of course.]] Thank you very much. [[To the exhaustion of the questions.]] Thank you very much. Mrs. Senator, would you like to share with the High House... characterize these voices, those speeches that were made by invited guests? Here I am thinking mainly of the voice of a representative of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). What was it about, and what are the expectations of the Land's environment in this regard? That's one thing. And secondly, I would ask that the senator kindly characterize the aspirations and expectations of the prosecutor-judge environment that appeared at our committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u135	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u136	As far as the voice of the NSZZ representative is concerned, the lady said that she represented Solidarity, but also other relationships, and was interested in the issue of retirement age plus taking into account premium time. She claimed that people who had worked the right number of years and had an adequate contribution period would simply want to retire early. This case was discussed. However, due to costs Because this would significantly increase the cost of retirement It is not being taken into account at the moment. If it gets better... It was not said that this would not be taken into account at all. So I think this is something we should be dealing with in the future. And if there's a chance to take care of your retirement age depending on your contribution time, to retire depending on your contribution time... Nevertheless, this is a question of the future for us. What was the second question? [[What did the judge-procurator community demand? For the High House to know what the expectations are.]] It demanded that there be the same conditions of transition as in other professional groups. Because it was said that judges and prosecutors, regardless of gender, would retire at sixty-five years of age. And it was also said that this would be taken into account in the future. No changes have been planned so far and there is a uniform retirement age at 65 for women and men, which is still a withdrawal of two years of retirement from the previous law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u137	Excuse me, last question, Mr. Marshal. And what did the Deputy Minister of Justice propose in this regard? If you could remind me... He said something was going to happen, not about this bill, just next door, which means...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u138	He suggested that he introduce a bill that would be prosecuted in the near future. [[But about that?]] Yeah, that line. [[Good. And you're gonna be able to do that outside of that mother bill we're talking about?]] [[You'll be able to...]] It wasn't discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u139	One at a time. [[I...]] Mr. Senator, in a minute. You're in line. [[That's the second time we've had a name...]] [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Senator Florek, Senator Rooster, Senator Kaminski. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u140	Well, then maybe I'll ask you one last question. I would like to say that probably all Poles, if they did a referendum, as your marshal said, would want them to work as short as possible and receive as much retirement as possible. As far as OECD countries and European countries are concerned, they are all going in the opposite direction. And I'd like to get some data. Did the State at the committee's meeting have any data that would show what is currently the situation with regard to the ratio of pensioners... Perhaps otherwise: how many people in Poland are currently retired, and what is the percentage of those who are of working age? What it looks like in Poland There are so many pensioners and so many people of working age What does it look like in other European countries? Well, I don't know, some examples: Germany, France, Italy. Is this relationship similar in them? Did you discuss this at the committee meeting? Thank you. [[For men and women.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u141	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u142	It's been discussed, but I honestly don't remember it right now. I was not given the percentage ratio of pensioners to employees in other countries. I think that we in this act are talking about Poland, Poles, our pensioners. And the fact that there are other years of retirement in other countries does not give us 100% certainty that we should do the same. We have introduced changes in education, using the model of Western countries that have already had problems with their children, with young people. With us, it turned out that these changes that were made did not work out well. That is why I do not think that we have an obligation to use the standards of the Western countries. We are Poles and we are to fight for our citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u143	Senator Rooster. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u144	I have questions for Senator Orzechowska, as well as for Senator Augustine. Is it true that this law shows that it is voluntary, and even if someone reaches retirement age, he can continue to work? Is it also true that, at the committee meeting, the Minister made it clear that, as far as prosecutors and judges are concerned, this is the Council of Social Dialogue? Besides, I myself said that this point on the retirement age will be introduced to the Social Dialogue Council and that the judge and the prosecutor have taken these measures. And the first question for Senator Augustine. Is it true that during your governments, when the retirement age law was here, the representatives of the NSZZ.Solidarity, OPZZ and Forum, who collected 2 million signatures, were not allowed in? Is it true that... 'Cause here you're asking senators, but amnesia can't take anyone. Why were employees employed for garbage contracts? Did it affect pensions? Why Only the Government of Law and Justice Is that true? Did he take up the matter of the employment contract? And another case. 'Cause they're asking because the senator had my name on it... Mr. Senator, we need to get ready. In fact, in other countries of the world it is, but some professional groups have a conversion factor. E.g. The train driver has a 14-month conversion rate in 12 months and sometimes retires at a very young age. In the light of this law, no one in Poland is defending anyone to work for up to 100 years. Because retirement age is a right acquired and the employee decides. He's gonna say he's not leaving and he's not going anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u145	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u146	I mean, I answer the first two questions... [[Yours.]] ...which were for me. Of course it's voluntary. Because it's an option to retire, not a retirement order at a given age. And the Social Dialogue Council will work on pensions for judges and prosecutors to diversify them for women and men. That was discussed, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u147	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u148	Mr. Senator, on the first point, I have already been responsible, but, of course, I will repeat for you the senator: this is voluntaryity. Except let's remember... [[I didn't ask that now. I asked if they were allowed in. Because I asked the question...]] I'll answer right away, that was the second question. So there is voluntaryity, but it is also necessary to consider Poles' preferences when evaluating this phenomenon. [[But, Senator, that was a question for the senator, not for you.]] The senator started by having a question for both, so... [[No, no.]] Okay, I'm not going back to that. And when it comes to the so-called. Trash deals... [[But were the Solidarity and OPZZ allowed into the O.R.?]] As far as I can remember, no. But I would also ask that Mr Borusewicz say something about this. Because as far as I can remember, they demanded the opportunity to speak, as in the Seym, by the representatives of these authorities. And that's what the argument was about. There is no Senate, there hasn't been, and I don't think it's gonna be in accordance with the rules of procedure. So it was not only about passive presence, but also about being able to present your position. That's what the marshal didn't agree to, 'cause he doesn't have the rules. And to this day, it is. We've never had a chance, except for the designated people, of any of our guests from those places or of those guys coming in... Unless there was a solemn moment of handing something over, and then the marshal would speak. So that's what it looks like. This certainly never applied to the laws under consideration. No social partner. That's how I remember that case. Because it wasn't just about being here. [[Trash cans, trash cans, garbage deals.]] When it comes to garbage contracts... The fight against this phenomenon that spread throughout Europe after 2008 when companies tried to get out of the crisis, they had already started Platform and PSL, finished, put a dot over Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't. That's not true.]] Very good. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u149	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Kaminski. [[Sign me up. That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u150	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Augustine. I have listened to this discussion and the arguments you used all the time, and I have the impression that the best situation for pensioners and older people is to keep the retirement age 67 years or even increase. This, of course, is not the only argument, but one of the important arguments presented here. So, three short questions for the senator at the end. Does the senator believe that extending the retirement age is the only way to keep an employee longer in the labour market? This also involves a greater pension. Is that the only condition? Second question. I will mention a little bit in history: wasn't the decision to raise the retirement age just a specific attempt to mask the problems of the Social Insurance Fund and the payment of pensions? And the third question that has often been repeated here, but I would like to hear your answer again. Doesn't keeping the retirement age at 67 make many people work beyond their health and productivity? Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u151	As for the first point, there are different models. There are different models, even if you don't set the upper age limit at all, but there is a very strong combination of the number of years of work with pension payments. In some countries, it works. In Poland this is justified by the fact that there is a strong desire The state owes you, among others. Your election success was that you responded to this desire. To retire as far as possible. Therefore, following most of the countries whose names were mentioned here Not only Poland, it is not the only Poland that has decided to make such a move. In order to keep as many people on the labour market as possible, because we realized that in this perspective, which concerns pension changes, we will lose people in the labour market every year... If the senator wanted to find out what giant investments this has caused, that in Poland recently, at the end of our governments, unemployment has decreased and is decreasing for your governments, then the answer is one. None of this has happened, but young people and others, not seniors, have already been able to leave this market. The labour market situation is therefore improving and maintaining employment would therefore be very beneficial. If most pensioners, as they claim, decided, despite lower pensions, to leave the labour market, this could mean a heart attack, a real heart attack in the labour market. The second question was... Because I didn't have a record... [[The second question was whether this decision to increase the retirement age was related to the problems of the Social Insurance Fund and to the problems of paying pensions.]] There has never been a problem with pensions payments, but indeed this decision was linked to the difficult situation of the Social Insurance Fund. And I assure you, according to the government's calculations, this situation, which is relatively I would like to point out: not in absolute money, but relatively, percentagely, it began to improve after the changes were made, it will deteriorate again. Or until there's a point where you're gonna run out of money for retirement? I hope not. [[So at the expense of people, men over 65, or women over 60.]] Mr. Senator, working people are saving not on someone else's, but on their own retirement, so what kind of cost are we talking about? And the third question? [[The third question, if I may remind you... was that keeping this age at 67 makes many people have to work beyond their health or productivity. But that's the way it is.]] It's very difficult for me to answer that question. Once again, if someone can't work, they have the option of going to the pension. [[That's another thing.]] No. It's the same thing. [[If the age was set at 60 years or 65 years, and people were forced to work until they were 67 years old... then at that point they could already be retired because they didn't get, for example. Rental decisions...]] Mr. Senator, I could say yes. Many people in Poland feel compelled to get up in the morning and go to work, you know? [[It's not about us forcing anyone. The choice is...]] Well, if it's about people... But Mr. Senator... [[We propose a choice.]] Okay. I understand intentions, I just joke that it's very difficult to grasp. That is why I said that we should set some measurable boundaries, whether this effort, whether this difficulty is subjective or objective. If she's subjective, it's hard for me to answer that question. If it's objective, then I'll answer: if it's incapacity to work, you have to apply for a pension.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u153	Yes. I would like to correct, because Senator Augustine takes everything... tells me what the achievements of the PO-PSL were. Mr. Senator, you're the ones who promoted trash deals. That's why the work code has been revised, if I remember correctly, a dozen times... it's been modified to actually reduce the role of employee. And you really have to answer modestly, not... You're promoting what happened before. At the committee meeting, when you said there would be no money, I said: you had to seal the system, you had to... I believe that Minister Ziobro will end up with Amber Gold's gambling scandals, and he will end the coal scandals. And the money will be. There'll be VAT on wire, from other things... Well, you can give thousands of arguments. Now everyone's bleaching, and after all, gentlemen, I remember what happened to the work code. I was performing... There was nothing, and there was an amendment, an amendment, because all companies would die. The companies were great, and the employee was a thing. I'm really protesting because you didn't do anything to close the garbage deal. Trash deal's been wiped out by this government. This government. It's already in there. Let's not go in, because if we talk like this, this discussion will last forever. People are really looking forward to reducing their retirement age. I could ask you a question because you're a social worker: and Grandma's institution is how miraculously she disappeared? Because she's gone. Well, the retirement age's up, so there's no grandma's institution. Like I said, I had to correct it because I remember an amendment to the work code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u154	Mr. Senator, there's no difference between us. I said that, in the face of the crisis, the law was changed so that it would be easier to move to flexible forms of employment. It was argued that it was better to have a worse, less protected job than none. Unemployment was very high then, and very low growth... Then you had to get out of it because it was the source of many pathologies that hurt people. Okay, we're in full agreement. We started this trial, and you finished it. I was talking about that. So there's no difference in assessment between us. However, Mr. Senator, it seems to me that we should also remember that this law primarily concerned the future. Suggesting that it is because today, after implementing these changes, someone is working for six months longer or a quarter longer, and therefore no longer wanting to act as a grandmother and grandfather, is really abuse. It's more like the senator said. Whether we like it or not, our families just change, young people think differently, mostly women think differently today. Each of us can answer whether it's right or wrong. A little regret, especially for us men, but what to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u155	Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. We'll be able to group together for a few questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representative of both minority proposals. It so happened that Senator Augustine took the burden of presenting both, but conflicting conclusions of minorities, which is why I would like to deal with this a little bit. Mr. Senator, in the argument of one of these conclusions, You have often repeated this argument in response to various questions There is a concern that, in short and colloquial terms, our pension system will not collapse as a result of the changes proposed in the law, namely, I assume, rigidly defined, in terms of age, the possibility of retirement. In turn, you also have a request. And you are the representative of this proposal. In which the possibility of retirement depends on the fulfilment of the internship criteria. And now, to the extent that it is possible to determine roughly what the maximum number of people would be able to retire after the change of legislation, i.e. after this early retirement age is restored, 60 and 65 years, it is very difficult for me to do so... But maybe you know the data, so I'd ask you to quote it. Thus, it is impossible to determine how large or what is the maximum number of people who would be able to retire after the conditions of internship have been met. Potentially this number is greater, which means that the introduction of your proposal could potentially impact this so protected pension system more than the rules that are introduced by your mother's law would do... I mean, it's not in my mother's bill, it's in the amended act. Explain to me this contradiction. Senator, don't run! There's a pedestal over there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u157	No, the senator doesn't run away... [[Don't worry.]] I said I'd collect some questions. We have a lot of time, though. Today we have a session by 11:00 p.m., tomorrow also by 11:00 p.m., and next week we'll also be discussing them, but I'm still going to massage these questions. [[I see. Have I made my point clear?]] [[Yes.]] [[It is a contradiction between two proposals: one you protect the pension system and the other you allow it to expand. This expansion may be more effective than what we are proposing or what the committee is proposing here. Explain that.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u158	I have two questions for Senator Augustine. First question. You said that this retirement age in different countries is being extended. Mr. Senator, do you know what it's like to extend the retirement age, now we're in the middle of this process, e.g. Germany? And there's that 67-year-old... If I'm not mistaken, that age will apply there from 2040. As you have introduced an extension of our retirement age, this mechanism It's a monthly extension every quarter, etc. It began to apply de facto since the bill was passed and people were surprised. In Germany, on the other hand, this prospect of extending the retirement age, the investigation to these 67 years... I think she was 30 years old, and it was myk, myk, and that's it. And so on. My mom had to say that she was chasing this retirement age with many, many years of work behind her. You don't surprise people like that, Senator. You guys voted it out. Today you refer to the fact that in different countries of the European Union the retirement age is raised, but it must be said that it has not been done anywhere in a way... It is about the countries of western Europe. I don't know what it was like. in Romania, etc. In the developed countries of Western Europe, yes, the retirement age is increasing, but this is done very, very gradually. In this way, it can be said that those who have already started professional activity will not be affected or marginally affected by this increase in retirement age. With us, however, people who had 30 years to work, suddenly the retirement age was extended. It was necessary to use such a method, Mr. Senator, that those who started their professional activities retire on these old rules, or on new ones. That's what you did in the case of uniformed services, after 15 years of working for those who work, you kept, and those who are just entering the service, the rule is that after 25 years of work... So this kind of reference to other countries... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the 1-minute limit for asking questions.]] I'm not gonna ask you another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u159	Are there any more calls? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u160	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority. Has the relationship problem been analysed: the percentage of workers at working age and the unemployment rate? This phenomenon is being studied and analysts in highly developed countries clearly see the correlation between the increase in the number of workers of working age and the falling number of unemployed. Seemingly, it seems so. It is a contradiction, but I think it is very logical, because the more working, the more wealth is, and as there is more wealth, you can run this wealth for those who can just work and are not working. Has this phenomenon been studied... Was there a discussion that unemployment fell after the introduction of a higher retirement age? We're watching it clearly. Of course, it's probably not the only element, but doesn't it seem... Hasn't the impact been analysed Also in Poland Is raising the retirement age to a decrease in the number of unemployed positive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u161	Any more questions? There are other reports. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u162	Mr Senator, let me say this: the amendment by Senator Rulewski, which Senator Duda and I supported to find her place among the options for consideration, was not armed with detailed calculations. However the senator argued it with this. I'm saying it now that you're ready to talk. That this is the way out of what the President has proposed. And it was raised. So I don't know how much exactly in numbers Mr. Rulewski's amendment or Mr. President's proposals are going to dissipate, dissipate, as you say, this system, while... Of course, we are primarily defending this amendment, which we believe will protect the level of pensions in Poland in the coming decades. [[I'm sorry, but this answer doesn't satisfy me at all. I mean, what are your motivations?]] [[I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but let's give you an answer...]] [[You're giving me 2 conflicting amendments. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. I'll finish my sentence in two different directions. And you, as one and the same person, represent two conflicting amendments to the applicants.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I didn't give you the floor. I really...]] [[Is this about hitting the PiS?]] No, no, no, absolutely not. We've been trying to see the needs of those who retire all the time. In the first case, we think it would be best for them to pass systematically from year to year. As it will also extend, I hope, our average life... So this is where we retire later. And in the second case, Because in the event that this was not possible, this amendment was tabled. The point is that only a few people can do this, a long period of work. So I don't see any contradictions here. Although the matter of accepting Senator Rulewski's amendment differs far from what I'm going to say, my desire for what it should really look like. But we expected that our motion to reject the bill would not have a chance to implement it, so we signed the second proposal. As for the question of Senator Mr. Frost... In Germany, such changes are proposed gradually and the retirement age seems to be further increased. There's even been an intra-coal dispute there. This amendment, which has sometimes been wrongly invoked here, was only about such a derogation that they could retire there from the age of sixty-two... [[Sixty-three.]] ...and the third, yes, but when you've worked 45 years. So it's about a handful of people. So it's different from ours. To answer this: I do not agree that it was a surprise, because the problems of pension systems have been discussed in Poland for at least a decade. And we are proposing a gradual implementation of this law until 2040 for women and by 2020 for men, but let us also remember that this change is not as big as it is for women here. For men, it is only two years, for women by seven years, so it is spread over a much longer period. We also take into account what Senator Orzechowska said, that cultural change does not happen overnight and there is no need to make any sudden movements here. You just have to keep up with them. And to answer the question of Senator Spokesperson, I would like to say that this relationship between working age and unemployment is evident, of course, and it was surprising. even at a special conference that I co-organized in the European Union under our Presidency. It was a closing conference in Brussels. We spent almost two hours in a debate of parliamentarians from all European countries to finally reach the same conclusion that you have in this question stated that the old do not take away the jobs of young people, that the more working, the more work. It can be proved, but not in such a short speech. But believe me, there was actually such research, and there is hard evidence. In our home she led them, among others. Professor Uścińska, President of the ZUS, who armed me with arguments before I left for Brussels for a special meeting with Professor Błędowski. And luckily, because it turned out that part of our presentation aroused the greatest interest. Polish and international research confirm this issue, so I think we have a moment now, that people of working age and working age are still coming, and unemployment is falling. And we had good timing. This is the best time to gradually, step by step, extend the retirement age because the labour market is opening up. And at this point, when these three elements start to work together, we, to the surprise of everyone, take a step forward. Poland is beginning to admire the world. The moment we have some of the best results in middle school, we're eliminating middle school. The moment we're finally starting to get straight in the retirement system, we're pulling this move back. We're waiting for more.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u163	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. This bill was introduced by the President. Anna Surówka-Pasek, Undersecretary of State at the President's Office, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? [[Undersecretary of State of the Polish President's Office Anna Surówka-Pasek: Yes.]] Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u164	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Presidential bill aims to restore the previously applicable general retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men. This is an exceptionally expected change, and the arguments raised here, that there was no debate, are unhappened, because on 12 January this year in the Sejm there was a discussion on this subject, a public hearing was held in which all interested had the opportunity to take their stand. But let me remind you that the 2012 reform has not, unfortunately, been so lucky and there has not been such a broad consultation, there has been listening to what the people want. I would like to remind you that in 2012, specifically on 30 March, there was a rejection of a citizens' request for a referendum. On 10 July 2015, a citizens' bill was rejected, which also aimed at reducing the retirement age, introducing internship pensions. In August last year, the President of the Republic of Poland applied to the Senate for consent to hold a referendum on this matter. Unfortunately, this proposal did not at that time gain the approval of the High House, which worked here. As regards all these comments concerning the life and health of Poles, I would like to quote Eurostat data on the continuation of life in health. The situation in Germany and e.g. Sweden can be compared with the expectations of life in Poland. In Poland, the length of life in good health for women 50 years of age is 21.7 years and for men 18.5 years. By comparison: in Germany it is 28.6 years for men and in the case of women respectively more. Therefore, data concerning Poland clearly indicate that Poles are not a healthy, fully productive nation, which is able to work for a very long time. Any changes must be made very carefully, given the reality in which they are introduced. According to data from the Central Statistical Office, almost 30% of men will not live to the retirement age of 67 years, while in the case of a reduction in retirement age to sixty-five years, this percentage is definitely falling. In other European countries there are a number of regulations concerning. as Senator Czerwiński mentioned earlier. • people working in difficult conditions. In their case, the way in which the traineeship is converted to retirement is also different. On behalf of the President, I ask the High House to adopt this law, which meets the expectations of Poles, which aims to reduce the generally applicable retirement age and is so much expected by all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u165	Thank you very much. Right now, I have three requests to ask questions. Are there any other volunteers? There will be questions, but the Minister may rest, because we will group them together. Senator Boris-Damięcka, then Senator Grabowski, Senator Rulewski, Senator Zając. Okay, that's after 5... Senator Boris-Damięcka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u166	Will the Minister answer from the seat? [[Undersecretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: No, I will go there.]] I'll have... Because I'd like to repeat the question that I asked on behalf of people who e-mailed me. Okay, I'll remind you. With a question and asking for the question to be asked. I am firmly convinced that they are following our debate, so I would like them to have a direct answer so that I do not be a messenger, so I will repeat this question. I ask them on behalf of people who have acquired pension rights and, as it is commonly said, go by the old wallet, they continue to work while taking out their pension. Their concern about the amendment of this law or the introduction of the law is as follows: whether the law will change the so-called. The old wallet and whether it will be so to say, forced them to suspend the pension they have today, so that they start to retire according to the bill that will be voted out. They are concerned by the fact that the Act provides certain pay thresholds for a person with a pension and a job, and now, according to this old wallet, they are not limited by thresholds and have the opportunity to earn what the employer offers them, even though they are receiving a pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski is still... [[Mr. Senator Rulewski, because there is no senator.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u168	Thank you. Minister, is your prescription, though unspoken directly, that if people are controlled by disease, they should retire, where, as you know, they will have to stand in queues for less money in health care? Is this the solution to the pension problem? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Second question: why did the President, contrary to the agreement signed with the trade unions, in particular with solidarity, reject the possibility of retirement by people who, for many years, 40 years in the case of men or 35 years in the case of women, were made up of a pension scheme and will now have to work for a few more years? And the third question I have asked before: what do you think was the shore conditions in favour of the liberalisation of the system? What's changed and what hasn't changed? Would you mind pointing that out? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u169	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the situation is that apart from those countries we would not want to compare with, such as Russia, Ukraine or Lithuania, in terms of the difference between the life span of a man and a woman... Well, that's the difference of eight years with us. She is one of the major differences, which you confirm with regard to the fact that Poles are not a healthy nation and that they are not able to work until this age. So I would like to ask if you and the Minister are planning, in some near perspective, a legislative initiative related to the improvement of health and repair of what we have said here? Well, Senator Rooster said the working conditions in recent years and so on. Is this initiative planned? Because it seems like we're going to have to put our resources into this kind of action so that the health of our society can improve. Mr. Marshal, can I ask you one more question? [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] [[Please.]] Thank you. The second question is, did you analyze... I wanted to ask you this, but I will ask you: have you analysed this situation in terms of the fact that there are about 38 million of our co-ops currently living, of which about 16 million are working, and 9 million are receiving pensions? After this reduction in the retirement age you are proposing, the question will arise when the number of workers and the number of pensioners will be equal. Because there's no other way, we have to look at it arithmetically. Did you analyze this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u171	Thank you. Who else? [[Senator Augustine.]] Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u172	I'm gonna start by deepening that question you just asked Senator Duda. How many more people will retire in the next two years after the implementation of this law if all those who will be able to do so benefit from this right? My second question concerns Art. Article 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph Namely, I would like to know if the sentence that says that the amounts of increases in pension contributions and initial capital referred to in Article. 173.175, obtained as a result of the quarterly valorization referred to in Article. 25a, carried out in order to calculate the pension available so far from the fund, will no longer be included in the future pension... I'm asked by a retired e-mail. Will that change? Until now, she worked as a retired woman, did not exceed any thresholds and had the right to charge these amounts every quarter, and now she reads that mouth. Two in such a way that I would ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u173	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u174	I'll answer you one at a time, first of all, about those who have acquired pension rights. Is there gonna be a change here? Once again, I would like to stress that the presidential project is not making any changes here. There is a reference to the Home Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The Presidential bill does not make any changes in this respect. The changes were not proposed by your President here. The next point concerns Senator Rulewski's questions. Mr. Senator said if anyone's unhealthy, let them go on disability instead of retirement. We still stress that the presidential bill introduces the right to retire, not the obligation. If someone doesn't feel able to work, they can retire. It's not like... From all of this discussion, the presidential project calls for retirement. There's no such thing. Once again, I stress that this is a right, not an obligation. All data on the health of Poles serve something else The show that Poles very often decide to stop their professional activity in advance because of their health. And it's not true what the senator always emphasizes that the President has rejected some trade union proposals... [[Yeah, yeah, ……]] I would like to tell the senator who rejected the President's request to hold a referendum on a matter of particular importance to you. The President asked the nation if he was in favour of reducing retirement age and linking pension rights to employment. I would remind you that the request for such consent was rejected by the votes of the Senators of the Civic Platform and PSL. Therefore, do not insinuate that the President is trying in any way to give up the implementation of the social contract. The President, throughout his campaign, announced the restoration of previously existing solutions to the general retirement age. And that's where this project is headed. Now I'm gonna answer the last of your questions. In 2012, did the Civic Platform take into account the conditions of retirement related to the health of Poles? As far as I know, these studies were not widely conducted. Right now, Mr. Senator is accusing the President of not including something. That's not true. The President responds to the expectations of Poles, the expectations of a return to the universal retirement age of 60 years for women and 65 years for men. To answer Senator Duda's questions concerning, above all, economic analyses, I will say yes. I believe that the person who will have accurate knowledge of this subject will be Minister Zielenecki. The government has carried out this type of analysis on how many people will be active and what the age group issue will look like. Regarding the first question I will return to the question of health reforms It's right here. I also point to government actions related to possible reform of the health system. As far as the President's proposal is concerned, he responds to the expectations of pensions. At this point, He doesn't include... The presidential project, which has already been passed by the Sejm, meets the expectations of retirement age only. As far as conversions are concerned, these are not covered by Article. 26c Presidential Act, Mr. Senator, but in the article. 1. This applies to changes related to the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. It seems to me that a more competent person to give the senator a thorough explanation of the mechanism for calculating his pension will be a representative of the family ministry. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: This is not the answer to the question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u175	The Minister must answer first and then I will give the floor. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u176	Minister, let me correct your rudeness, which was that the question was addressed from Senator Jan Rulewski, not from the Civic Platform. That's one thing. I'm not a member of the Platform, but maybe it's a joke. So answer Senator Jan Rulewski, and then I'll tell you why it's important. [[But you're a member of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club unless something's changed.]] You answered what the Platform did, and I asked you not what the Platform did, but what the President was doing. Secondly, I think... 'Cause that's something you'd miss... [[Mr. Senator, do you have any questions you'd like to ask?]] All I've got is a corrigendum. [[Are you asking a question?]] No. I correct my misunderstood speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u177	That's not a rule-of-law correction. Senator Komarnicki. [[No, no, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me. I must point out that the charge of my view is contrary to the ignorance of the President. And I'm gonna straighten you out...]] [[Don't insult me, don't insult me...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's not a correction. That's not a correction. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna straighten you out on this...]] But you can correct your... [[...that insurance in Poland is not mandatory, which proves ignorance of the constitution...]] We'll wait for the senator to calm down. [[Every job gives rise to an insurance obligation. If the president doesn't have it, he can't give it to a referendum.]] Already? Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I repeat these questions because every responsible authority would like to leave behind the situation as it is in every country, not as it is in Greece. The consequence of this bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm so sorry... The consequence of this law will be. as the economists count, of course. 2040 that the cost of reducing the retirement age will be a huge sum, Minister. However, this is 50 billion PLN. And economists know that then you will have to go down a third of those pensions. And my question to the Minister is this: has any cost analysis been carried out and what was the idea of keeping pensions at least at the current level after the retirement age has been reduced? That's my first question. [[No culture.]] [[Lack of knowledge.]] [[No culture to insult the president.]] And the second... Minister, I listened carefully to your statement and I do not agree that the Poles have been well informed because... Whatever we say, we live longer, Minister, and therefore society is getting very old. And now for one pensioner And these are the countable things. We have 4.2 employees, and already in 2030 there will be only 2.6 pensioners. They're working. Why don't you say that this reform means that a pension for a woman instead of 2,000 will be... [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the limit of one minute.]] I'm almost done. ...less than PLN 1 thousand 300, and for a man here, as far as the 2 thousand are concerned, there is less loss of PLN 1 thousand 650? I'm sorry I'm out of time, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the first question is: is there a country in Europe in the OECD that reduces retirement age? There was a discussion here, and I would like to hear from you whether the President has analyzed it as well. With health... You talk about health here and this is important, but with health in Poland it is different. I remind you, for example. Yesterday, three judges of the Constitutional Court suddenly got sick... [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I wouldn't put that much weight on it. [[That's good. That's good.]] Poles, if they can, will retire early, they will benefit from this right. Why? Because they're afraid of the instability of the law. There is no stability in Poland, the law changes all the time. So if there is an opportunity to retire at the age of 60 and 65, the Poles will benefit from this right. So I have a question for you. Senator Augustine's already asked about it, and I'm talking about the same thing. How many people in the third quarter of next year, if the bill comes into force, will retire? You can assume that almost everyone will benefit... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 1 minute.]] I'm almost done. How many people will retire in 2018? And what are the costs for the state budget in the light of a deficit of 59.3 billion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u182	Are you familiar with research that links Poles' desire to retire to the potential amount of this pension? Do you know that over 60% of Poles do not want to retire early, knowing that it will be significantly lower? Do you know these studies?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u184	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! At the meeting of the committee in which we participated together, on behalf of the representatives of the union community of the lady of NSZZ.Solidarity... As I understand it, she also represented other relationships, at least that's what she said. She raised that question. However, let us leave the matter to the referendum because that is not the case. I would like to ask if the President and the Minister will remain in office until the end of this term of office... Do you consider the possibility of making retirement conditional on the number of contribution years, i.e. After working 40 years by men and 35 years by women. Are you considering this? Are you commissioning an analysis, or are you talking to the government about this, and are you planning a possible estimate of the costs of such an undertaking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u185	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u186	Minister! I'm gonna look at the other side of this. So far, there have been such emotional-social arguments. It happened to me for several years as a substitute for Professor Gilowska to give lectures on social security, life insurance. It was actually an actuary. And we had a project with the students, a study that showed that the average life expectancy of a man was 71 years, 72 years. Now it's 76. In the case of women, she was 78, 79 years old, now she's 84 years old. So the average age of life is increasing. And those who live through retirement are the most important ones here. Our accounts showed that in order to have full financial security, a man should retire at the age of 70 and a woman at the age of 76. Then the account would be balanced. In recent days, I've received several calls from my students. Some even work in government. And they asked: how is what we used to count about what we are discussing today? Today's decisions started, so to speak, going the other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u188	Minister! I would like to thank you very much for making this bill. As you know, he's been in Parliament for a long time. Mr. President submitted it much, much earlier. I have a question for you. Is Mr. President... Does the bill in the form in which it is in Parliament suit you, Mr. President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u189	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u190	One more question. Minister, is it true? I didn't count it. That if a woman who receives a national average retires at the age of 60, she gets 1 thousand 500 zlotys, and when she goes at the age of 67, she gets 3,000 500 zlotys? It's a very big difference. Is that really true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u191	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Mr. Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u192	Thank you very much. I have a question related to the issue that you have recently raised by Prime Minister Morawiecki, announcing that in a certain perspective It's hard to say what kind of social pension we're looking at because we're going to have pensioners coming in and people running out of work. And isn't that the first step this way? Another would be a social pension. All of this will increase a phenomenon that can already be observed, at least in my constituency, in the western part of Poland, which means that women aged 60+ after retirement leave for Germany very often and work there as babysitters to just earn money. And we know that in Germany 400,000 babysitters are missing. This phenomenon will ultimately grow and instead of solving the problem here in the country, we will force women to go as carers to Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u193	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u194	I think, in addition to the fulfilment of the electoral promises... that the President has carefully considered the consequences of this proposal. I would therefore ask the Minister to state the financial costs for the Social Insurance Fund in each year after these changes have been implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u195	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, let's start as standard. Is it true that most of the numbers given here by the opposition are burdened with a fundamental error, namely that the factor given by you, i.e. the number of persons who will receive the benefits of the pension For example: 20 years, he's famous, but he's not really brave, which is what we're going to share? Whether the level of pensions in the future will also depend on development, on GDP and e.g. On average pay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u197	Thank you. Are there any more calls? I can't see. You're welcome, ma'am. [[I'm afraid to report because the marshal will be abdicating...]] [[From somewhere else.]] No, you can ask a question. [[Okay, that's in another tone, a question that the Minister didn't answer...]] Mr. Senator, I'll explain. You applied for a formal correction, but unfortunately not your statement, so that did not meet the requirement of a formal application. [[But the charge...]] But, please, you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u198	I've been accused of belonging to a party I don't belong to, but that's not my advantage... So the question is... Well, to go to... to aim for the future. Minister, I asked you what the circumstances were. I ask you to indicate to the President that the requirements of the universal social security system must be liberalized for all those who are working and who are not working, because the pensioners... Please indicate what circumstances this has caused that the President is more liberal than what you called it, the PO-PSL project, which was actually more demanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u199	Are there any more calls? I can't see. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I answer Senator Komarnicki's question. These estimates, which were calculated in the presidential project, as you probably know, covered the years 2016-2020. [[Yeah, yeah.]] As we are now in 2016, these calculations are partially outdated. For the current calculations requested by the senator, I refer to the government's position, which was also made available on the Senate's website for inspection by the senators. On the other hand, questions about which state reduces retirement age... Of course, countries that lower the retirement age or decide to lower the retirement age are often also paying attention to the number of traineeships that will be entitled to... Like they did. Germany, which reduced the retirement age by referring to internship periods. At the same time, to answer the question of Senator Rulewski, who wonders what the circumstances have taken place... There have been circumstances where the President, many times meeting with voters, hears questions about when the retirement age will finally be reduced. And with this I would like to link the answer to the question of why Polish women go to work elsewhere. Well, gentlemen senators, this is the right to retire at a certain age, but not an obligation. Therefore, a person who chooses to do so does not need to explain why he makes such decisions, not other decisions regarding whether it is his or her activity, or whether it is a complete cessation of his or her professional activity. I think that you should address these questions to these people, because they would be better able to answer them. As for how many people will retire, it is with all due respect, but it is a little bit of a fortune-telling, because it is assumed that all those who receive this right will immediately retire, and all the time we stress that it is a right, not an obligation. This type of data or surveys cannot be reported here, because they would be burdened with a very high risk of error, they would simply be immeasurable. It is right that Senator Czerwiński pointed out in his question that all kinds of calculations that are made in the long term are burdened with many errors, because we are not able to take into account all the factors that will affect whether the average retirement age or the level of these pensions. These factors include not only the length of internship periods but also the amount of remuneration to be charged. It is right that the senator here pointed out that the economic development of the country and the rise in the level of wages are also factors that shape the future amount of the pension to be paid by the eligible person concerned. On cost issues, I refer once again to the position of the Council of Ministers, which has been made available to the States of Senators. The question of survival was also raised, and... Senator Zając claimed that this average age is growing, that the expected life expectancy is increasing, and here it is proposed to take a step backwards, which is to reduce the retirement age. Of course, these are just some estimates. These are estimates which take into account many different factors, but at the same time it should be noted that life expectancy in retirement is indicated When a person is no longer active It should correspond to approximately 1/3 of the life expectancy. Therefore, these economic factors and social factors differ slightly. The duration of the professional activity will, of course, always depend on the individual decision of the insured person, on how he wishes to organise his professional career and when to end this activity. In turn, in answer to Senator Jackowski's question, I must say that this is a law that meets the expectations of the President, because he is fulfilling the basic promise that you have made, i.e. the promise to restore the previous retirement age for women of the 60s and for men of the 65s. I hope I answered all your questions. Thank you very much. [[Can I ask you one more question, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u201	Has the Minister finished answering yet? [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: Yes, but you...]] Sure. Mr. Senator Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u202	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to ask you one more time... I have asked this question before, but you once again said that there are European countries that are reducing retirement age. If you know the countries that plan to reduce their retirement age in the last five to ten years, tell me about them. [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: I gave you an example of the country that did this, i.e....]] But which ones are they planning to do? [[Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Anna Surówka-Pasek: Republic...]] [[One second, Minister, let's wait a minute. The senator asked one question, and I'd like to collect all the questions. You're welcome.]] I'd like to continue. The Minister will answer right away. That's the first line. Which European countries Do even the most developed countries in the world plan to reduce the retirement age due to demographic trends? If such countries are, I will humbly accept this information. That's one thing. Secondly, as the Minister explains, it sounds a little bit like we're jumping. I'll borrow that phrase from Senator Augustine. And then they checked the pool to see if there was water. Of course, we do not know what GDP will be, we do not know what economic growth will be. And as far as responsibility is concerned, my political formation has taken it as well. We're the ones who raised the retirement age to the age of sixty-seven, and I'm sure to some extent it's because of this election... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] I'm almost done. Okay? [[Please.]] We lost. [[It's true.]] So I think it's a question of responsibility, not a fortune teller, because all the analyses... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. All analyses indicate that these measures are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u203	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Three short questions. Do you think... It's kind of connected to Senator Duda's last question. Do you think it's possible to make that estimate by 2050 or not? I'm just expecting an answer: yes or no. That's one thing. Another question. Can the Minister tell us, if the Minister has such information, when the last time in Poland, of course, except for the change made by the Platform of PSL, was the retirement age of 60 and 65 years old changed? How many years ago was it established within these limits? And the last. Does the Minister have any record of you analyzing the data on... If, as you say, a citizen in Poland is entitled to retire... What percentage of people, for various reasons, are still working? Is this about data from Poland and data from Europe?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u205	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u206	Minister, if I understood the answer to the first part of my question correctly, it was probably also the answer to the second question that you did not address at all. I asked about the anticipated financial consequences of the implementation of this law. Am I to understand that the State, considering the ZUS and the Ministry as worthless forecasts, did not examine the financial consequences of adopting this solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u207	Thank you very much. Are there any more calls? Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u208	I'm continuing, Minister, I'm sorry, with some intrusiveness, the problem that you have raised. In relation to the article. 67 constitutions to which, in my opinion, a particular estimate should be felt by the President's office... The lady said, "Everyone, if they want to retire, we won't make him feel bad about it, and we'll even listen to all those people who will, if they want, retire." As you see in this case, you see the fulfilment of the obligation of the State under Article. 67 Constitution that a citizen has the right to social security in the event of incapacity for work, sickness, invalidity and after reaching retirement age. How do you combine fire and water? On the one hand, we tell citizens to do what they want, but on the other We, the state, must secure all of this from doing what you want. Even at the expense of those who do what you want.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u209	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Are there any more calls? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. One at a time. Countries that plan to reduce their retirement age. A country that has reduced retirement age The countries that may be working on it... [[There aren't any.]] I don't have any information. Our closest neighbour, the Federal Republic of Germany. [[That's not true.]] [[Why do you deny it?]] [[Calm down, please! Please allow the Minister...]] [[But you do, and you don't.]] Another issue concerned the security of funds for the provision of benefits. Because this bill has a positive opinion of the Council of Ministers... The Council of Ministers, in a positive opinion of the President's proposal, had to secure in the budget the resources associated with the implementation of this law. This is the consequence... The budget is always planned for the financial year, not in advance of decades, because we would not be able to do so. This is also an attempt to answer Senator Czarnobaj's question, who asked for estimates by 2050. Every respect that has a very long period in perspective is burdened with many mistakes. [[I didn't ask about...]] Do I have data on 2050? [[Can you do...]] That kind of data doesn't... [[It's a conscious act.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please! Minister, please don't react to any of this, because we'll be sitting here until nightfall.]] All I'm saying is that any long-term action will be flawed. Can they be made? Of course, it could be a few hundred years ahead, but it will be so much wrong that the result will not be valid. The question of linking the retirement age with... and the possibility of retirement was last widely reformed in 1999, when the pension was introduced according to a defined contribution, and the issue of a fixed 24 percent pension that secured... It was called. the social part that protects the minimum amount of the pension. And as far as how many people are still working, even though they have reached retirement age, I refer again to the data of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The consequences of the implementation of the bill were the question of Senator Augustine. In the presidential project, these effects were calculated for the years 2016 and 2020 and in this period amounted to about PLN 40 billion. But let me remind you that this time perspective It is already obsolete as the Act is due to enter into force on 1 October 2017. This is therefore out of date. And Senator Rulewski's question about the right to social security. Mr. Senator, you know very well that different types of risks are secured in different ways. Some of them are covered by social security, some by the social security system. The way in which both risks are financed varies completely. Therefore, the risk of old age is otherwise secured here by the insurance scheme and otherwise the risks that are covered by the social security scheme financed directly from budgetary expenditure will be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u211	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u212	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, it's nothing new... I will only refer to what the Minister has said. First of all, thank you for sending me back. I'll try to find out. Secondly, I would like to say that I asked the Minister the following question: when was the last time in Poland Of course, aside from the change that the previous government made, the limits of age were changed... 65 years, 60 years old. When was the last time... [[When it was introduced...]] Yeah, when was this introduced? A year ago, 100 years ago... [[You replied that in 1999.]] All these things you said, Minister, are very interesting, but they weren't the subject of my question. I wanted to know what year these age limits were introduced for women and men.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u213	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u214	I'm gonna ask you the same question again because I'd like to know if it's true. If a woman who made a national average for all her years of work would retire at 67... I was calculated that at that time this pension would amount to PLN 3,000 500, and if this woman retired at the age of 60, PLN 1 thousand, 500. Can you confirm that these are correct calculations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u215	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u216	Well, maybe I'll start by asking the last question if the woman who made the national average will have a pension of a certain amount. I'm sending it back to the calculations made by the Ministry. If we consider that the calculations of the Ministry regarding the amount of the potential pension are valid, it should be assumed that the expected pension would be such if, of course, all the factors that have been taken into account were met, at the level given by the Ministry. In answer to Senator Czarnobaj's question, I would like to say that at this point I am unable to recall from the march the precise annual date at which this age was set at this level. [[Pretty much. I'm not asking you about any...]] I just don't want to make a mistake. By avoiding making a mistake, I'd like to say that I'm not just gonna... I don't want to overwhelm you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u217	Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Council of Ministers adopted an official position on the presidential draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law on 19 July 2016. The position is quite extensive. It is also based on the specific statistics that are attached to it. It consists of two parts, namely the analytical part where the assumptions of the presidential draft law are presented, and the part where the relevant opinion on the draft is found. As to the main thesis of the opinion, this argument is that the opinion on the presidential bill, then the presidential bill, and now the act of 16 November amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law, is positive. The arguments which have led the Council of Ministers to adopt a positive opinion on this issue refer to the nature of the social risk or the pension risk and its, it can be said, different from other risks covered by the social security system. The feature of this risk, the risk of old age, is its conventionality. This conventionality means that we do not make an individual assessment of each insured person, whether he has been affected by the risk of old age or not, but only take into account certain average parameters relating to the population. This conventionality does not mean freedom when it comes to setting age limits at a certain level. The objective criteria to be taken into account when determining the limits of the pension age in force in a given country are 4. And these 4 criteria are given in the position of the Council of Ministers. This is, first, the criterion of collateral, second, the criterion of service, third, the criterion of employment, fourth, the criterion of cost. With regard to the security criterion, it can be said that the age at which citizens, members of a given community, feel that they are becoming generally, on average, incapable of working normally is crucial. Among the arguments related to this condition are the International Labour Organisation Convention No 102 on Minimum Social Security Standards, Poland was bound by this Convention in 2005, because then the Act on ratification of this Convention was published in the Official Journal of the Laws, so that relatively recently .. and art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 of this Convention, which states that the retirement age in force in a country in which the Convention has been ratified may not exceed 65 years. Crossing this limit is only possible in one case, namely when older people in a given country retain their ability to work beyond that age limit. From the data we have, it appears that so-called. the length of life in good health, which is a measure of compliance with this condition, does not support the admissibility of an increase in the retirement age above the age limit laid down in Convention No 102. Other parameters that we need to take into account by increasing the retirement age are also service, i.e. the need to ensure an adequate proportion between the period of insurance and the period of pension use, the collection of pensions. In Poland... With regard to the length of the period covered by pension insurance, we provide data from 2014. These data are, I would say, quite good, in the sense that the mentioned length of pay period for women was almost 33 years in Poland in 2014. In the case of men, the period of payment of contributions by retired persons shall be almost 37 years. Indeed, in a situation in which the retirement age, the basic retirement age for a long time, was not actually increased in Poland... I'm talking about the basic statutory retirement age. Because to a completely different conclusion leads to an analysis of the so-called actual retirement age. The argument which led the Council of Ministers to express a positive opinion on the then still presidential draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund pension law is also the argument that the labour market in Poland was not prepared to increase the retirement age according to this model, which was applied in 2012. I have detailed information here and I can say that if we analyse the situation of people in the labour market and who are between the ages of twenty-five and forty-nine years of age, we will see that employment rates in Poland are higher than the EU average. This is definitely different for people over the age of 50, where these indicators start to fall sharply and deviate from the EU average. The issue is not to raise the bar, to determine the retirement age at a level higher than 60 years for women and 65 years for men. It can be said that in order to achieve the objectives related to the situation of the pension system in Poland, it is necessary to extend the actual period of work. Thus, in this sense, we believe that the labour market was not prepared at the time when the decision to raise the retirement age was taken to provide people who had already reached 50 years of age with jobs that were able to pay contributions until the higher retirement age was reached. As I said, when the cohorts of people are examined, the next cohorts of people under the age of 50 are definitely different. Because Poles are increasingly qualified and better prepared to adapt their professional qualifications to the needs of the labour market. As far as the fourth condition is concerned, which is a cost-related condition... In fact, I have already referred in part to the arguments which the Council of Ministers makes in its position. These arguments refer not to the formal retirement age... In the debate, you also asked how this retirement age changed when legal changes were last made in this area. An important parameter to be taken into account is the actual retirement age, that is, the actual age at which Poles retire. If I were to answer this question, I would say that the change in legal status in this area took place on 1 January 1999, because then in Poland, introducing a pension reform, it was decided to reduce, eliminate the so-called. Retirement privileges, remove provisions that previously allowed retirement before reaching the basic retirement age. We must be aware that the actual retirement age on the eve of the reform, in 1998, for women, was only 54 years, almost 55 years, 54 years and several months. For men, 58 years and several months. During several years of the reformed pension system, the actual retirement age in Poland has been significantly increased. As regards 2015 data, the average retirement age in Poland is 61.5 years. In the case of women, it is higher than the basic retirement age proposed in this law, which we are talking about because it is 60.5 years. For men, it's almost 63 years old. It can be said that these data on the actual retirement age were considered satisfactory in the position of the Council of Ministers. I think that an important thread that appears in the position of the Council of Ministers is also a question that was also addressed during today's debate, i.e. the question of combining labour and pension collection. In the official position of the Council of Ministers, or actually in the conclusions of this position, there is a statement addressed to Members This is because then the work on the presidential bill took place in the Sejm, still in the Sejm subcommittee. The Council of Ministers has asked Members to consider the possibility of modifying the legal solutions contained in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act, the provisions or regulations concerning the merger of further economic activity with the collection of the pension and the issue of its amount. During the legislative work in the Sejm, no amendments to the current regulation were proposed. The reasons were different, among others. The question, one might say, is the scope of the presidential presentation. We have been informed that such a change would go beyond the scope of this submission. I think that's where I'd end up with a general presentation of the government's position. But I'd be happy to answer your senators' more specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. I see there will be questions. First, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u220	Minister, I would ask you to explain whether the conditions have changed for those who want to retire. In particular, the question is whether they will be able, as they have so far, to increase their pension on a quarterly basis because of the fact that they are working. That's what voters in e-mails ask when they interpret the article. Article 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c, paragraph 26c. 2 in such a way that now there will be no more quarterly valorization. And then there's the second line. Are the old-wallet pensions such that some tightening is introduced, other regulations in the event of continued employment, or will this work on the basis of the existing rules? And one last question. Do you consider these simulations that you personally gave me at the committee meeting to be absolutely unbelievable and unworthy of attention? Those relating to the amount of pensions, and thus those relating to costs, and thus those relating to the number of... [[Time.]] ...retiring. Because the minister seemed to suggest that it was burdened with such errors that it should not be taken into account at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u221	Thank you. Mr. Senator Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u222	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course you presented the government's position, and you probably analyzed... I address you, of course, as Vice Minister of Family, Work and Social Policy, but also as Professor, as a researcher, because you have been working on this issue for years as a scientist. If I asked you today... [[The scientific community.]] Yeah, that's first of all. If I asked you how we'd meet for example. Four years and no matter who's in charge in Poland... However, you do not think, also after contact with the scientific community, because you have friends there and know experts whose opinions are often very different from what the government and the Minister present... Isn't there going to be a need? No matter who's in charge Because of the budget deficit and all the social obligations that are now in the Law and Justice... Isn't that gonna lead us to have to raise that retirement age because we're not gonna have enough money? Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much...]] Oh, one more thing. I'm sorry, I'll ask, then I won't ask. May I? [[If you promise not to...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I mean, I promise I won't ask right away. [[Oh, no, that's not it.]] [[...you're welcome.]] Thank you. Minister, you said one thing, namely that when the retirement age was increased in 2012 and equalled to 67 for men and women, the labour market was unprepared. Is he prepared today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u223	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u224	Thank you very much. Minister, maybe a little anecdote first. Question: why is there no compatibility in the government as to shortening the retirement age? Among other things, Deputy Prime Minister Gowin is critical of this. I'm moving on to more serious questions. Minister, the question I've asked everyone. What were the reasons for the need? What is the government's support for the liberalisation of these rules? What has changed in the meantime, what have changed, that the pension system needs to be liberalised? Please indicate these conditions. Second question. Why did the government, together with the President's Chancellery, reject the position of trade unions included in the criteria that you just said? What did you say, Minister? You said that the essence of such a security system is age. Okay, here's the deal. Internship and financial balance of the state. The union is proposing it, and you're rejecting it. [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute.]] I'm signing up for the next... [[Are there any more calls? Mr...]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Not so wholesale, because we forget questions. Oh, come on.]] [[It's still you, isn't it, Senator?]] Yeah, yeah. Minister, you say age and internship, and yet you deny that only age, because there is no money. Whether there's money for... [[There isn't.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: She said authoritarianly.]] Please? [[Voice from the room: We know that.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I have not yet answered.]] Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u225	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u226	Minister, you also referred to the achievements of the Constitutional Tribunal. Do you confirm that the Constitutional Tribunal has found it constitutionally compatible to equalise the retirement age of men and women? Do you confirm that, in its judgment of 2010, the Court considered the differentiation of the retirement age in accordance with the Constitution, but pointed out, I quote, that in the future, it is necessary to aim at equalising the retirement age of men's women, taking into account the relevant demographic, economic and social criteria. I will add, as is in the explanatory memorandum, that also because of the requirements that apply to equality between men and women... That's in a broader explanation. Are you confirming that it sounded that way, not that it's consistent, and that's the end of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u227	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u228	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two questions. The first question I ask is: does the bill under review change the principle of calculating the amount of the pension in relation to those who entered into it, as a rule, in force in 2009? Second question. Is it in the light of this law? If it is accepted by Parliament and you sign it, the President will sign it. Will the situation change... will the rule change with regard to the fact that someone would like to continue working after they have been entitled to pension? Is this mechanism going to change here, and is there any change planned in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u229	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. One more general. Is it possible to estimate... And if so, give me two numbers. The Act is due to enter into force on 1 October next year. How many people, according to the bill we have right now, are willing to benefit from the profits and retire? Second case. How many people could have retired if this bill had not passed, but the request of a minority who was presented here? It's about retiring because of your internship. Is that possible to estimate? And if so, how do these numbers feel about each other? Second question of a technical nature. Namely in the article. Article 15 of the Act is repealed. 21 in one of the previous laws, in the law amending the law on FUS. And this article. 21, in turn, required the Council of Ministers to provide the Sejm with information on the effects of the previous law. But as it happens, this bill we're talking about... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...enters into force in October next year and the first information was to be formulated by 31 December 2016. Do you have that information... [[Mr. Senator, it's been one and a half minutes.]] ...will you prepare it, or do you need to change the law in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u231	Thank you. Are there any more calls? Senator Florek. [[Me too...]] [[Voice from the room: We can group.]] Answers... But we have to group. Senator Florek. [[Please, Mr. Marshal...]] We can, of course, spend the weekend together, I dream of it, but I suggest you try to finish it by midnight tomorrow. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u232	Minister, I once again... I want to ask you again this time. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Out of pity for the minister.]] Do you have such calculations? I mean... I'd like to ask you about these calculations for women, and I'm not going to ask about men anymore. Is it true that a woman who spent all her years earning a national average and retiring at the age of 60, at the national average, would get 1 thousand 500 PLN and at the age of 67, 3.5 thousand PLN? Because someone calculated it. I'm not gonna tell you where I read it, but that's what the data was given. Are they real? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u233	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u234	Mr. Marshal, I'm trying to adjust to your appeal. Because I don't want to exceed a minute, I've divided my questions, so now I'm asking ♪ Except for the ones I've asked ♪ Okay, let's do another one. And count. It's time to start from this point on. [[I'm counting. It's been nine seconds.]] Yes, sir. My first question is this. If we're dealing with the same person, we're dealing with the same position that we're going to assume. He retires at the age of 60, lives 81 years old, or 21 years old he benefits from benefits... Now, in the light of this system that introduced the Platform, it retires at the age of 67 and, living 81, retires for 14 years. How is the total amount of benefits charged for 14 and 21 years? Is there a difference or isn't there? Is it a significant difference or not? The second question I ask is: on what average salary are contributions to the Social Security Office charged? Because according to my knowledge, if the average income is over PLN 4,000, then the contribution paid from the salary is actually well below the amount... For all sorts of reasons, I'm not going into details anymore. Is the government thinking about solving this problem? Because this is one of the sources of trouble for the Social Insurance Institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u235	Thank you. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u236	I will try to answer in the order in which the questions were asked. The first question that Senator Augustine asked me was to recalculate the basis for the benefit. As we read in this law, it is very often that we overly attach importance to the fact that the law It redrafts the entire provisions of the Social Insurance Fund Act. Those are the legislative requirements. When an element of an extensive, extensive rule is changed, we must in this law I'll tell you what. Re-establish the content of the provision. And that is the case with this article that the senator quoted. [[Nothing's changed.]] As regards the rules on the conversion of pensions, the basis for the assessment of benefits, this law does not make any changes in this respect. The amendment of the provision is based on legislative reasons, we simply refer to this newly defined retirement age. As for... the senator asked me about my old wallet, but in context... [[In the same context.]] In the same context. There are no changes in this area. As regards the rules for determining the amount of pension in the old scheme, in the defined benefit scheme, these rules simply apply to the same extent as before. The third question concerned costs and simulations that are included... [[In a government position.]] ...in a government position. I have understood a little differently the statement of the Minister of Raw Materials, because these calculations are actually in two documents, i.e. in the explanatory memorandum of the Presidential draft law are very precise calculations of the effects of this regulation. We must remember that the presidential project went to the Sejm in November. The original draft assumed that the Act would enter into force on 1 January 2016. We agreed on the government's position. As I said, July 19th. At that time it was already known that this provision could not be implemented and that the Act would not enter into force on 1 January this year, but we also did not know the final date of entry into force of the Act. We therefore assumed that the law, after the adoption by the Sejm, would enter into force on 1 January 2017. Hence, there are some differences as regards these two issues, issues concerning the effects of the entry into force of this law on both the impact on the financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund and the amount of the pension benefit. I would also like to say that what is attached to the government's position has also partially become obsolete, because this law, which we are discussing today, assumes that the new regulation will enter into force on 1 October 2017, so... But I'm not discussing this data in any way. I consider them credible, prepared in a responsible manner. As far as Senator Duda's questions are concerned, the senator asked me about the position of science, the doctrine. The answer to this question stems from the position of the Council of Ministers. I would say this: if you listen to a country in the media or scientific environments discussing retirement age, you will notice that the voice of economists dominates and we can say that it is a critical voice. The main arguments are those referring to the demographic situation and as a consequence of the demographic financial situation of the Social Insurance Fund. By presenting the government's position, I have tried to convince you that the issue of retirement age is not just a question of the financial situation. This is one of the parameters that determines at which level the retirement age should be set. And I think that these other factors, the health factors of society, the labour market situation, but also the service, with the proportion between the pay period and the pay period, are just as important as the economic factor. I remember the justification of the draft law increasing the retirement age in 2012 during the debate in the Senate committee and I remember that the votes referring to economic factors were dominant there. The other elements have been, you can say, either silenced or limited to maximum. I think that these factors, which we could define as social, should be taken into account to a greater extent than so far in the debate on retirement age also in the scientific community. If you look at it, for example. on the legal environment, which, after all, also analyzes, maybe in a slightly different context, the pension system, is... In this environment, the voices that the Constitutional Tribunal made a mistake in 2014, considering that the newly introduced rules, which increase the retirement age above the age of 67, are not incompatible with Convention No 102, are quite numerously represented. So it is not that the decision of 11 May 2012 to increase the retirement age has no critics among the representatives of science. We look at the pension system from different points of view. Economical, sociological, medical, legal And I think they're all equally important. We will discuss this further. I will present my view to you by answering further questions. The senator's second question was about the labour market. In fact, I have presented to you some trends in the changes that occur in the labour market. I told you that today the situation on the labour market looks better than when that change was introduced, that law increasing the retirement age. And that results, among other things. from what I mentioned, that future generations are better educated, they have qualifications that, say, are better suited to the needs of the labour market. The problem concerns those who do not meet this condition. Right? These people will retire first. We're talking about people over the age of 50. The law, which was introduced in 2012, increasing the retirement age, simply did not take into account the situation of these people. Senator Rulewski asked me if something had changed in terms of objective conditions that had been decided four years ago that Parliament had decided to raise the retirement age. It appears from the government's position that we are different, we can say, to assess whether all objective factors that should decide on the retirement age limit were taken into account at the time when retirement age was increased. Thus, the government's position is that nothing has actually changed, but that in 2012, when deciding to increase the retirement age, Parliament did not take into account at least a few factors involved, I will repeat, with the health situation insured in Poland, with the situation on the labour market and with periods of insurance or the length of the period of payment of contributions by those who were then retired in Poland. About the issue of internship pensions... She was also here in the discussion, as well as earlier. Let me put it this way: with regard to what connects both positions, that is to say, the position that trade unions are currently working on, and the position of the government, there is no doubt that there is a need to make the rules for retirement more flexible under the very unfortunate Act of 11 May 2012. The difference of opinion is linked to the legal instruments to achieve this objective. Right? As far as I know, trade unions do not question, and even welcome, these solutions, which are contained in the Act of 16 November 2016, i.e. the solution of returning to the previous age of 60 for women, 65 for men. And we're in the middle of... I would like to say that the discussion on supplementing the 16 November Act on solutions for retirement regardless of age after reaching a certain internship has been going on since spring this year. We talked about this at the Social Dialogue Council. The social partners have asked us to present simulations related to the costs of supplementing this bill that we are discussing today. Well, in general, I can say that this is a solution that would require the pension system, the financial system, the social security system to bear certain additional costs. Because we are talking about people who would have reached 35 years of internship for women... or a proposed internship that could have been 35 years for women, 40 years for men, even before reaching this reduced retirement age, which is provided for in the Act of 16 November 2016. So, on the one hand, you are talking about the fact that these solutions are expensive, solutions that are included in the Act of 16 November, but on the other hand, you are asking why these requests to supplement the Act on Internship Pensions have not been implemented. This, of course, is one of the factors. There were more of these factors. These were factors related to the need to respect the principles of correct legislation. [[We're asking. We're just asking.]] I mentioned that the legislators pointed out that the extension of the presidential project would go beyond the scope of the presidential submission. Besides, it is also worth remembering the system arguments. Mr. Senator mentioned art earlier. 67 Constitution, which guarantees everyone the right to social security. This provision refers to retirement after retirement age. [[Age, all right, here we go.]] You don't talk about service, do you? And it can be said that the question arises as to whether this kind of internship pension, treated as a permanent element of the pension system, would simply be in line with the Constitution. So, like I said, these are problems that just need to be solved. I think I answered Senator Rulewski's questions. [[Halfway there.]] The next question was... Senator Augustine asked me about the difference in retirement age in the context of the statements of the Constitutional Tribunal. Indeed, we really have two statements from the Constitutional Court on this subject. As far as the argument is concerned, she was actually here in the discussion cited. I would like to remind the Court of Justice's ruling of 2010, a judgment given at the request of an ombudsman who was actually wondering whether the lower retirement age of women And the country actually in the discussion also referred to this argument. In relation to the age of men, it is not discriminatory whether this lower retirement age, one can say, will not translate into the pension benefits that women will receive. To this question, the Constitutional Tribunal gave a negative answer, i.e. it stated that the differentiation of the retirement age of men and women does not constitute a violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law, it is not... [[But in the same sentence...]] ...disciplined. It is also worth appealing to the argument, because it is very important in today's discussion. Namely, the Court stressed that the provisions of Polish social security law, but also the provisions of Polish labour law, not only do not oblige a person who has reached the retirement age, the lower one for women, to terminate his or her professional activity, but do not even give the right to... ♪ including ♪ ♪ I'm gonna go ♪ ♪ I'm 4 years before the retirement age but does not justify termination of the employment contract. Right? At the same time, the Court referred to the argument which was mentioned today in the discussion, namely that it is the differentiation of the retirement age of men and women that has its legitimacy, based on the family model that is in force in Poland. It is worth paying attention to one aspect, which may not be here in a way, let's say, sufficiently emphasized. Namely, if we are talking about retirement age, we are talking about women who play a dual role. They play a role as a caretaker or a nurse of a home bonfire, more broadly looking at it, but we are talking about working women, women who work at the same time and contribute to supporting the family, women who are twice burdened with responsibilities. The Constitutional Tribunal found that the lower retirement age is currently justified in this traditional family model, which dominates Poland. I agree that the Constitutional Tribunal has also pointed out that this family model is changing as a result of, say, different phenomena. More and more often also men as if they were taking over the role that had previously been attributed to the beautiful sex, and here... But the Court also concluded that this process of social change which is taking place in Poland does not justify the claim that in 2010 this differentiation in the retirement age of men and women was an indication of unequal treatment. It was agreed that there was a signaling order of the Constitutional Court, issued later, where the Court indicated that there was a need to consider... But we also have a 2014 ruling. From this perspective, the Court also assessed this law of 11 May 2012 and considered that... At the same time, the allegations were made that the standardization of the retirement age, i.e. as if it were on the other hand looking at it. It can be treated as a... [[But he found it compatible...]] With a lot of separate judges. So that actually at the moment there are no formal obstacles to returning to this difference in the retirement age of men and women. Senator Jackowski asked me about the principles of determining the amount of the pension, also in the context, I think, of those threads that appeared in the discussion. Namely, you have asked repeatedly, you have pointed out that a reduction in the retirement age and, in particular, a return to the retirement age for women of 60 years may have a negative impact on pension benefits. It is therefore worth noting that the mechanism which is currently in force, the mechanism defining the principle of determining the amount of pensions in the new scheme for persons who were born after 1948, was established by the 1998 Act, or actually the original version of the Act, which we are amending today, the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, which entered into force on 1 January 1999. And this is a mechanism in which, you can say, there are some incentives to extend the period of professional activity. Today, in this discussion, critics of the solutions contained in the Act of 16 November 2012 first of all, I have the impression that they treat this statutory, basic retirement age as the only factor that decides that insurances decide to extend their working life, i.e. a factor affecting the extension of their working life. Of course, it's not. Such incentives for insured persons to consider the possibility of extending their working life have already been introduced. Such a defined contribution mechanism, in force in the new pension scheme, was introduced in 1999. When I presented you with the government's position, I said that the limitation of retirement before the statutory retirement age, introduced by the 1998 Act, contributed to the increase in the actual retirement age. Exactly the same can be said about the mechanism of a defined contribution, which can be said to depend directly on the amount of the pension on factors such as the length of the period for paying social security contributions, such as the amount of wages that were the basis for the calculation of social security contributions during the insurance period, and also on the moment when the insured person decides to retire. Such, you might say, a postponement of this moment However, voluntary, rather than imposed by the legislator, does indeed have a positive effect on the amount of the pension. 'Cause let's just notice that we're getting bigger and bigger. In other words, we spend longer on contributions, on a larger basis we charge pension And we divide this dimension by a shorter life expectancy, because we determine this continued life expectancy for the actual retirement age. The later we retire, the smaller the factor is and the greater the benefit. So this is a very important factor that we need to take into account when also discussing the amount of pension benefits. And in this respect, the law we are discussing today does not make any changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u237	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant, please ask... [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Yet Senator Czerwiński asked me something and I did not answer this question...]] Please. [[I asked a total of four questions, and the Minister answered one.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: A little connected.]] Then I'll ask you to repeat it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u238	The second question was whether or not the rules... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Linking.]] ...connection of pension collection with further employment. The third question concerned a hypothetical question. If we compare the same person who retires on the same basis at the age of 60 and lives a total of 81 years... What would be the total amount of her benefit? And the same thing: what if we stayed on system 67? That person lives 81 years, so that's where she'd be retiring for 21 years, and that's 14 years. What would be the total amount of the benefit here? The next question was whether the government... The fact is that the amount of contributions currently paid relates to a much lower amount of remuneration than the average given by the CSO for the national economy. Is the government planning any action here to increase the contributions to the Social Insurance Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u239	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u240	I would like to answer that question in this way. You may be following media reports, but I'm going to say that there's quite an advanced work going on on the pension review right now. Anyway, Senator Czerwinski's question. and as if it were a matter of concern. This is a pension review which the government is obliged to carry out under three laws: the 2011 Act, which amended the rules of functioning of open pension funds in Poland. I would like to remind you that the reduction in contributions to the OFE Act of 2013, also introducing a change in the system of open pension funds, and just the Act of 11 May 2012, which increased the retirement age. As far as the work is concerned, I would say, in agreement on this pension review, on the government report from this pension review, they are already very advanced, actually final work. We are in the process of inter-ministerial arrangements, but also such public consultations on the draft of this document, and by the end of 2016, this document will be sent to the High House after approval by the Council of Ministers. Perhaps that's why questions arise about issues related to, for example: to combine work and pension collection. I would like to say that the bill we are discussing today, or the law we are discussing, the amending act of 16 November 2016, in no way changes those rules governing the possibility of working after reaching the retirement age that apply today. In fact, it can be said that in the case of persons who have reached the basic retirement age, apart from the fact that persons who are employees must, when applying for a pension, terminate their employment relationship, there are no other restrictions. The rules, you can say, in their entirety, fully allow the possibility of combining labour with the collection of pension benefits. On the other hand, we have this type of arrangement for other social security benefits, invalidity pensions or so-called. early retirement, acquired under previously applicable rules, and there the possibility of collection is actually linked to restrictions on the amount of income that may be achieved by such a working pensioner or earlier pensioner. One more question, sir, the senator asked me, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u241	Say it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u242	I meant that count, in 21 years and 14 years... Someone had about the same career, only the difference was that he retired on current terms and on these terms... Total amount, i.e. benefits for 14 years, at the retirement age of 67, and at the age of 21, provided that the person retires at the age of 60.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u243	There's one thing I'd like to stress. It is worth mentioning because this thread appeared in a previous discussion. Namely, note that this average continuation of life, which is taken into account when determining the pension in the defined contribution scheme, despite the difference in the retirement age for women and men, is determined jointly for women and men. We do not apply separate life tables for women and men for people who retire. This is a solution, one can say, conducive to the benefits women receive regardless of their retirement age, because it was mentioned today during the discussion. Statistically, women live longer than men by about 8 years. If we were to use separate tables for the continuation of life of men and women, it could be said that, in the case of women, no matter at what age they retire, this would have a negative impact on their pension. In short, the basis of the dimension would then be divided by the longer life expectancy, for more months of life. For this reason, the legislator uses such instruments as an increase in pension benefits in the case of women covered by a defined contribution scheme. And when it comes to possible simulations, I wouldn't want to just... In fact, this kind of simulation... I mean, attached to the government's position. we actually present differences in the amount of pension benefits in the various years, in the perspective of 2060. It compares the amount of benefits that would be determined on the basis of the current rules and on the basis of the provisions already contained in the Act of 16 November 2016. In fact, for each year we get different results here. So, as I say, we would have to take a number of such parameters into account here. I would not like to do this from the Senate stand, but I can say that indeed these simulations, which are known and were also carried out earlier, when the retirement age of men and women still existed, show a real direct relationship between the moment of retirement and the amount of this benefit. At the same time, as I mentioned earlier This is also due to the government's position The government welcomes a change in philosophy that accompanies this law that we are discussing today. This philosophy is that we want the insured to be the decision, the choice of the moment at which he ends his professional activity. I don't think anyone's questioning that the above-mentioned level of this statutory retirement age, the less it is the freedom of the insured to choose this moment. And we want this factor in terms of the amount of benefits received or calculated according to the formula of the defined contribution to promote, so to speak, individual decisions of insured persons as to the possibility of extending their working life. And what I'm trying to say is... 'Cause that's what we were actually talking about today. That individual decisions must take into account individual health conditions, qualifications, expectations of future benefits, and expectations of how to spend your rest after retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u244	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion... [[But one more question!]] Thank you... [[More questions, Mr. Marshal!]] [[So where are the calls? I don't have it written down.]] Excuse me, the list of requests for questioning is kept by the secretary. He told me he didn't have... [[Mr. Marshal, we haven't gotten some answers yet. The Minister hasn't finished answering yet. I'm sorry.]] [[Mr. Marshal didn't give me the floor to ask a question.]] Once again, a list of questions led by the secretary, informed me that no questions were asked. Didn't the Minister answer any questions? [[They didn't even ask those questions...]] But I didn't give you the floor, Senator. [[But you've closed your questions.]] Yes, because the secretary informed me that there were no questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: I tried]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u245	Mr. Marshal, it's not the secretary who tells you if there are any questions, it's the senators in the courtroom. There are questions. I have a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u246	There haven't been any calls. I didn't see my hands raised... [[It's the secretary...]] [[Sir...]] Mr. Marshal, you are in session, and you know that if someone doesn't raise their hand, we don't have a formula to ask if there are any questions. [[How come we don't have a formula? You have such a question in the scenario, such a formula: Are there any questions? Yes?]] Yes. Now I have the formula: Senators can now ask questions... They're asking them by raising their hand. If my hands aren't raised, I'm done. Has any of you who have asked the Minister have not received an answer? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u247	One of the questions I got was answered, the other wasn't. Let me just remind you, Minister, that this is about the number of people entering the pension system, of course, depending on what model will be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u248	It is about increasing the number of people who may decide to retire as a result of the entry into force of this law. As far as data relating to 2015 are concerned, the data are reliable, because already based on decisions of the insured themselves. In 2015, more than 225,000 people retired. Today we are talking about a law that assumes a reduction in the retirement age, but notice that from 61 years of age actually for women and 66 years for men up to 60 years for women and up to 65 years for men. So we're talking about reducing the age by really a year and giving up the calendar of further increasing the retirement age by the end of the sixty-seventh year. So we can say roughly that the result of the law's entry into force could be a doubling of this number, which means that once you retire, you can decide to go about 450,000 people. It's because it's really one year old. suddenly 1 October 2017 will fulfil the conditions for the acquisition of the right to a pension. But we can't predict what the number will be because we don't know what individual decisions the insured themselves will be. Of course, the estimates we have made for the work on the bill we are discussing today are based on some assumptions. We figured 83%. people will take this step. However, I have the impression that these estimates are too... [[...optimistic.]] I'm just wondering which word would be right: whether optimistic or pessimistic. That amount is overestimated, I'd say. [[What about your internship pension? Because it was about comparing two numbers. It's about what's in the minority proposal.]] Dear Senator, we have a precise calculation of costs and costs, and the size of this group of insured persons who would possibly be interested in retiring before the basic retirement age, but after reaching this longer insurance period. I can't give you that data right now. They were prepared for discussions in the Social Dialogue Council. However, I can say that this would have a significant impact on the cost of implementing this idea. Nevertheless, we also need to keep one point in mind. These are proposals. I've actually mentioned this before. That would be difficult to treat in terms of far-reaching, systemic solutions, because the situation on the labour market shows that the beneficiaries of this solution would be those who have a relatively long period of payment of contributions. We know that the insurance history of the next generations of insured people, the next generations of employees, looks completely different. This work model, this labour market activity model just doesn't look as good as it does for people who are approaching retirement age at the moment, so I would put it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u249	Haven't any of you received... Mr. Senator Elephant? [[No.]] [[No, no, we already have new questions.]] Please? Ladies and gentlemen, without seeing those who are willing to ask questions I opened the discussion, so I would set a precedent if I went back to the questions. Isn't that what the Marshal thinks? Mr. Marshal, you weren't in the O.R. [[It's a formal matter.]] You came and raised your hand after I said the formula for opening the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u250	Mr. Marshal, don't be mistaken. We're at a questioning stage, so you couldn't open the discussion. That's the first line. The second is that you can't limit questions. [[Please?]] You can't limit questions, and right now you're limiting questions in a non-regular way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u251	Mr. Marshal, the questions are asked by those who come forward. If no one's checking in, we're moving on to the next stage. Well, I won't insist on not giving you... [[But you can't move on to the next stage. We're at a question and answer stage.]] We were there until I opened the discussion. [[No, Mr. Marshal...]] I'd like to ask you a question. You're the first Senator Rulewski to come forward. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u252	For the sake of clarification: I think there has been a rumble or maybe there has been an inaccuracies in the transmission of the chair of the proceedings by Marshal Bielan, because Marshal Bielan cut off, among others. I was right to ask questions and enlisted us in the next queue. And you interrupted it. [[Voice from the room: Ask the question.]] [[Okay, ask me a question.]] I have two questions. Minister, it is difficult from a financial and budgetary point of view to justify your position. Well, you say we can't allow him to decide his retirement internship in addition to his retirement age. Let me give you an example: someone works 38 years old, pays contributions, and then wants to retire at the age of, say, 58 years old. At the same time, the president's government and law firm prove that if someone works only 20 years, but reaches the age of 60, it will not have any financial consequences. Well, twice the impact. That's the first question: isn't there a logical error in your calculations? And the second question, Minister, is to clarify your statement. Shouldn't you have gone? For example, because of these biological or social factors, which you speak of as a way of relaxing bridge laws, about which relationships also ask? And this is, I would say, a question: why aren't you liberalizing a bridge law that takes into account exactly what Senator Orzechowska was talking about and what the President's Office is talking about and instead you're introducing mechanical cuts?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u253	Senator Elephant. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Many opponents of this law, mainly from the Polish People's Party, accuse her that it significantly worsens the situation of Polish farmers. I would very much ask the Minister to address this and dispel my doubts. The second question concerns those programmes that activate the unemployed, seniors and those who lose or lose their jobs at 50, 55 or 60 years old. These activating programs were called "50+" etc. Whether the government will sustain these programs, modify them, or have any other idea, authored on the necessary The activation of older people who, for various reasons, would be ready and willing to take up a job and do not have such opportunities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u255	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u256	Minister, the Senator rapporteur couldn't answer that question, and you were probably there, so I hope you can answer that question already. How much lower will the 1974 women's pension from this current system be after statutory changes? That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u257	Do any of you have any more questions? I don't see any calls. Minister, you're welcome. The Minister has the right to answer specific questions requiring calculations in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u258	I mean, I can't answer the last question. It simply requires additional data, especially on how long a person would have to work, at which point at which age he would have retired. I take it you're referring to the date of birth, sir? 1974? [[It is known that if a woman is born... it is known when a woman born in 1974 will retire in this current system and in the one you have proposed. There's an average wage, etc. And that can be calculated. There are even tables, one of the senators had these tables, unfortunately I don't have them.]] So the senator assumes that such a person would retire in 2034, as I understand it, after he was sixty years old, and throughout his life... [[No, Lord...]] Yeah, well... [[Sixty years...]] That's why I'm asking. [[According to the new system.]] That is why I am trying to obtain additional information that may allow such a benefit to be determined, the amount of such benefit. [[I understand that in this system she retires at the age of 65.]] The senator asked me to tell you how much the retirement of a person born in 1974 will be. [[No, what's the difference. What is the difference, Minister, between the pension from this current pension scheme if it has retired in this current pension scheme and the pension from the new pension scheme that you are proposing?]] And the additional question is, what year would a person like that retire? Because it depends, of course, on the year in which such a woman born in 1974 would decide to retire... [[Voice from the Chamber: 1984]] [[In 1974, not 1984. Is there any further information needed?]] [[60 and 67 years old.]] So I assume it's 2034, right? [[Yeah, yeah. In this system, he retires at the age of 67, in the new system at the age of 60.]] According to these tables, which are attached to the government's position, if the current rules were to be applied, the pension would amount to PLN 3 000 904. And with regard to the pension that would have been due after the introduction of this law, this is the amount of PLN 2 000 386. However, as I said, these are obviously forecasts and they depend on many individual factors, i.e. above all, since the age of the insured, as the senator noted, would have decided to retire in 1974. I have pointed out that there is a direct correlation between the moment of the end of the working life and the amount of the pension. So that a person born also in 1974 who would have extended his or her working life over the age of sixty, e.g. By the age of sixty-five, she would have had this pension much higher. [[Yeah, but I was asking how without an extension... so 3,000 904 zlotys in the current system, and 2,000 386 zlotys in the system that is proposed. Yes? Thank you very much.]] [[And the answers to the other questions, Minister, please.]] Senator Elephant asked me about the voices that appeared during the debate in the Sejm on the part of Members of the Polish People's Party, suggesting that this law makes the situation worse when it comes to the retirement age of farmers. I would like to say that this is a law that establishes the same retirement age for all insured persons Both those covered by the general social security scheme and those covered by the farmers' social security scheme. It can be said that the 2012 Act, which raised the retirement age to these 67 years, assumed 2 changes in the retirement age of insured farmers. Firstly, it assumed that the basic retirement age for farmers would increase, for women, from 60 years to 67 years in 2040 and for men from 65 years to 67 years in the year... This ceiling for men will be reached in 2020. The second solution, which was reflected in the provisions of the Act of 11 May 2012, is the decision to delete from 31 December 2017, i.e. at the end of next year, the provisions that allowed earlier, allow for and will also allow after the entry into force of that Law until the end of 2017, early retirement by women after the age of fifty-five, and by men after the age of sixty, provided that they have completed a longer insurance period. The law we are discussing today involves reducing the retirement age of all insured persons, including farmers, to 60 years for women and 65 years for men. The Act assumes, you can say, respect the will expressed in the adoption of the 2012 Act by the Coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party with a temporary obligation of this provision, which provides for the possibility of early retirement. So that this law does not make any changes in this respect. As far as the programmes are concerned, let me be honest with you, this is a question of evaluating the programmes that have been implemented so far. We know that various such solutions in the area of labour market institutions and employment promotion have been applied. I remember the changes in the Labour Code, which aimed at some reduction in the costs associated with the employment of workers aged 50+. The aim was to shorten the period during which the employer was to finance the salary for the period of incapacity for work and to extend the period of the sickness allowance. Let's say that this assessment is a moderate assessment. These programmes did not fully meet expectations. That's what I'd say gently. And what I mentioned, i.e. improving the situation on the labour market, also those who are approaching the age at the moment, I would say, pre-retirementally, is primarily the consequence of other changes, i.e. changes in qualifications, adaptation of workers to certain requirements that are on the labour market. We assume that, over time, not only people approaching retirement age, but also those who have already reached retirement age, will, if they wish, continue to be active and pay social security contributions. Senator Rulewski asked me about the bridge laws. The fact is, I've actually already mentioned it. Retirement review is underway. One element of this review is possible changes in the area of bridge pensions. This is currently being discussed by the social partners, inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations are underway. It is a document that is currently being discussed. We don't know the final shape of this document yet, so it's hard for me to talk about recommendations. There are also elements on the bridge pension system and possible changes in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u259	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers from the Presidential Office and the Government! I apologize at first for the rather dynamic speeches during the course of asking questions, but they are based on research and the belief that Poles do not appreciate the common good enough. Insurance guaranteed constitutionally, by legislation, and above all in Poland needed in Poland, i.e. in a country that should be safe internally, in which people should feel safe, cannot be the subject of simple solutions, because they are not simple and are certainly social good. There should be an atmosphere of agreement around them, agreement. The limits of responsibility should not be exceeded. Hence may my too dynamic and elevated tone I'd love to defend it. It is true that the Minister of Raw Materials confirmed this. That the idea of reducing the retirement age came up during the election campaign. For the President, this was the only argument for putting this case here. I respect the electoral promises, and I'm not going to question that. However, it must be remembered that not only the President, but also us, including myself, made various electoral promises, which, after verification, in the context that, so to speak, the continuation of the resume of the Polish state, require thought and then implementation. One might ask: and why has not the Large Area Objects Act been introduced as a matter of urgency? We already know for sure that there will be no area, only revolutionary. Is that even gonna come in? You could ask for franc credits. Finally, we could ask Poles in a referendum, as Minister Surówka suggests, whether we all want to be young, make a lot of money and start retirement at the age of 40. My expectations would be in that direction, too. Fortunately, we are bound by the Constitution and by acts of law and, above all, by the ambition of being in a well-developed and safe civilization. Undoubtedly, this discussion, and these questions, have shown that the awareness of these processes, especially in the case of the President's Chancellery, is small. There is insufficient knowledge of what the social security system is, which, according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, according to European case law, we are obliged to honour in accordance with international conventions. There, unfortunately, knowledge was not used for the right purpose. Let's be honest: it was used as a result of the campaign. But it can always be corrected. The proposed project does not correspond to the principle of universality, as evidenced by the position of all trade unions. The project corresponds to trade unions only in the part concerning the reduced retirement age, and already in this rational tissue, which is retirement internship. I agree here that he is constitutionally undefined... When relationships talk about what everyone here was talking about, especially from the coalition, they just didn't submit... which means that it's about making people feel better, you're offering these pensions... who are you offering them to? You're doing the opposite. You're suggesting that for 20 years, 30 years, you don't work, and then you're gonna retire before the sixty-five... That's why you reject the diligence, integrity and integrity of the insured. This law does not meet the conditions of rationality. I do not know experts, social activists who would give a positive opinion about this project. The last opinion from the economic society in a devastating way refuses to support this project, even indicates that it should not be implemented. I've already started to say something that I, as a activist of Solidarity, must, of course, awaken to reflection, but not only. This law does not comply with the principles of social justice, because at one level it maintains the goodness of the insurance system both towards those who for 40 years build the condition, stability of the insurance system, and to those who, as a result of perhaps the election act and the actions of the President, will gain the same and even greater rights than those who consisted of the potential and capital of the system. Of course, this law is far from the trends and actions in other countries, especially in the developed countries of the European Union. It's a little nuisance. I know it's true that people want to retire faster, but let me point out that even an animal accepts protective colors. If you want to live in a consumer civilization, I would. Named, surrounded by the goods of the highest species and the highest quality, it is unfortunately also necessary to meet the other requirements concerning responsibility and how to earn all of this, and therefore we must count on the budget and the employer and the constitution. This law is in agreement, the state has not persuaded us here. The storms threatened the public finance system, this system which requires all pensioners today to pay bank contributions, to repay loans, and these amounts represent almost 1/3 of what is paid for pensions. You're going to ruin public finances. The state, for the wrong ambition not to say worse, is trying to convince Poles something they do not expect, and above all you try to tell them that good does not come from work. This is alien to our civilization. Still, I have a proposal I've been working on for years. This proposal combines two things Responsibility, internship and age. I suggest that pensioners be able to... Firstly, maintain the current 67-year-old system for men, 67-year-olds for women, without half-retirement, with an extended bridge pension system. Secondly, they could retire in an exceptional way, but, of course, on the basis of their own decision, go those who will get both men and women 62 years old and who are 35 years old in the case of a woman, 40 years old in the case of a man. That's what I take for granted, but not at age level, but at internship level, because I take into account the fact... And it's a double requirement. Motherhood, but also what Senator Orzechowska said, that Polish culture condemns a woman to a more difficult and shorter period of work. Therefore, the double preference In addition, women who have raised children and have been caring for children will be included in a non-membership. It's a double preference. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this is for today, this is for today. The point is, indeed, as Senator Augustine said, to stop this insane election dance. The elections are over, it's time to manage and manage the country, to carry out its security. The pension system accounts for almost 1/3 of public expenditure. Those are powerful numbers. Its violation also means an infringement of the internal security of the State. In the second part of the speech... Mr. Marshal, how many more minutes do I have? [[One minute.]] ...I would like to draw attention to the far-reaching solution which has already been discussed, at least at the meeting of the family committee and social policy of the previous term. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u261	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The presidential project supported by the government... Senator Rulewski mentioned here some of the electoral promises that are not implemented, connected with the budget and related, among others. with a pension system. I just want to add to what the senator said that the budget isn't made of rubber, so it has to close. 500+ will cost the budget of PLN 23 billion. Tax-free amount We have discussed this in a wide range of ways. If it were actually up to this announced amount of PLN 8,000, it would probably cost about PLN 15 billion. We know right now that this is actually not a free amount, but this is a donation to the poorest people up to PLN 6,000 600 a year. So instead of 15 billion costs are estimated at maybe a billion, maybe less, certainly not even a billion. That's the other thing. Now, the third thing, the important one, is the pension system. From these estimates, for the years 2016 and 2020 this would be about PLN 40 billion. It is already known that this law will be introduced if it passes later. Well, you can estimate that this is about PLN 10 billion at the initial stage, in the first year, maybe in the second year. But it is also known that this amount will increase. Therefore, once I add only these 23 billion, 15 billion and 10 billion, it is already done 50 billion PLN. And now, to balance the budget, you have to find the money somewhere. Senator Rulewski gave examples of laws which were to enter into force and which would not enter into force. These are financial matters. It's easier to do HR stuff because it doesn't cost anything. Here you have done far more than 100% standards, because in general almost all laws were staffed and therefore there is a continuous exchange of staff. And here's the money you have to make, because to split the money, you have to have it first. That is the authority, not the duty of the Minister. The Minister said that, too. Well, yes, it's a right, not an obligation, but we have to refer to the Polish reality, we have to remember what it looks like. As the Minister said, it is estimated that 200, 300,000 people can benefit from this. Next year... One year or so, it's gonna wear off. It's like middle school, where there's gonna be a year. There's a little less people here... This is about 450,000 people, as the Minister said. I'm convinced. We'll know that soon, because it's the end of next year... The Poles, if they have the opportunity, will benefit from it. It will be used by men and women. 60 and 65 years old... They especially don't trust the law that we create because it changes too much, and if someone doesn't have trust, they'll think this: what I have, I have, but maybe I will. And with all that extra work, it could be a little... You have already realized that something needs to be changed here, because if people retire at the age of 60 and 65 and start earning money for this pension, another problem will arise. As long as the unemployment rate is low and she's relatively low, this labour market... Well, somehow it's all shutting down. But it won't always be like this. I'm not saying next year, in two, in three... And here we're talking about a pension system that wasn't supposed to cover women until 2040. Ladies and gentlemen, how much longer is this? We talked about the fact that the average life expectancy that is adopted is currently 81.6 for women and 73.8 for men. That's the average life expectancy. I'm just pointing out that, like, 20, 20 years ago, I don't remember exactly. It was... I've been analyzing this recently, and it turns out that this average life expectancy has increased by eight years. So I assume by 2040... There are many elements, such as progress in health care, which can make this life expectancy grow. Therefore, it can be assumed that the average life expectancy will increase over the coming years. The question is, why would you turn it all over just because you wanted to say something in the election campaign? If you've already moved such a difficult project, you should have left it behind. That's not how it's gonna cost you. Those who introduce such a project There's gonna be a moment like this. The costs will be incurred. That's what happened this year. Everyone in the world basically raises retirement age. The Minister said something about the Germans lowering... I don't know. I read something else in the papers. As far as I know, the retirement age is 67 years old, but they're wondering if it's going to be 70 or 72 years old. The Swiss, ladies and gentlemen, do not want a minimum salary of probably PLN 13,6 thousand, because they know that unemployment would then increase. We are not yet able to think with these economic categories. We can only say populistly that so that it will be great and so on. After all, all of us would be happy to retire at the age of 60 or 55. And it would be good to get a bigger pension. No? I'm sure we could make good use of that time. But you have to follow the realities of what they are. We know what it looks like so far, at what retirement age men go through, how women go through. This inequality is very high. I've asked a question three times today. After that, I didn't want to go back to that. It's about what I read about because I wanted to make sure it was true. I would refer here to the question of Marshal Borusewicz... Those questions were similar. I was talking about a woman who's been retiring at 60 and who's been making about a national average her whole life... What's it gonna look like? What's her retirement gonna look like if she passes at age 60, and how does she do it when she's 67? No one could answer that question. I read that it will be PLN 1 thousand 500 and PLN 3 thousand 500, which means the difference is PLN 2 thousand. It's a very big difference. The Minister, when he was responding to the Marshal, spoke about amounts of PLN 3 000 800 and PLN 2 000 300 if he left at a later age. This is 1 thousand 500 zlotys difference, so we're talking about the difference between 1 thousand and 2 thousand zlotys. Probably that's it, maybe more. This would be the difference in amounts if the person concerned retired earlier. I understand that there are different situations. You have talked here about pilots or other cases where it is really difficult to work up to a certain age, but these cases need to be dealt with differently. In general, a system needs to be adopted. We're ruining this system right now. The implications for the budget in the future will be significant. And you can only feel sorry for the one who's gonna have to change this system and unscrew it back. Don't be... There was a good pension system in place, and it could be corrected instead of ruining it to the end. There is therefore no doubt about it. In my case and probably in our club's case That we certainly cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u263	Mr. Senator Jackowski. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that I have listened very carefully to this multi-hour debate. In its course, one party participating in this debate wanted to show whether through its questions, whether through its statements, how tragic the system in Poland will be, how horrible the solution proposed by your President, namely the return of the previous retirement age, and how terrible the consequences will be, and above all, This cotton wool was very important. As there is no social dialogue in this area and as someone is really trying to impose something without social dialogue. I'd like to recall some facts from the near future. In 2009, by surprise, the Civic Platform and PSL government decided to take back so-called bridge pensions concerning professions where work above a certain age limit is extremely difficult work, I do not say that it is impossible but very difficult at all. Many professions lost the opportunity to benefit from so-called early retirement or bridge pensions. Let me remind you that President Lech Kaczyński, the late Professor, President Lech Kaczyński, vetoed this bill, motivating it, among other things. no public consultation. This veto was unfortunately rejected by the ruling majority. In 2009, the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party also took away this opportunity from citizens, namely that if someone worked and obtained pension rights, he could, without interrupting the employment relationship in which he was staying, obtain pension benefits. Who did this? Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, government of Donald Tusk. It has taken away this opportunity from citizens, and now, as you know, the citizen can of course work after receiving a pension, but the employment relationship is interrupted. Of course, the employer may have a new employment relationship with him, but he doesn't have to. It used to be made from a vending machine. I am already overlooking the question of how those who have acquired rights in this area have been dealt with. Year 2011. Before the campaign, President Komorowski, asked if the retirement age would be increased, said absolutely no. Donald Tusk said absolutely no. And in November, after the elections won, the idea of raising the retirement age suddenly emerged, and by March the whole matter was handled by Parliament with huge opposition from the public. I would like to remind you that there has been a very long debate in this House in the previous term. It was raised. It is not enough that trade union representatives, in this case, were not allowed into the room during the debate on the referendum proposal signed by 3 million citizens. I stress: 3 million citizens So it's almost 10%. the right to vote. The motion was, of course, rejected, but it was shameful that here, the Senate was not allowed, among others. President Piotr Duda. This was absolutely against the principles of a democratic rule of law and was an expression of the arrogance of the power of that time, which absolutely did not matter to the public. If the previous authority had been prudent and held a public debate on the future of pensions, if different ideas had been drawn up on how to solve a problem that objectively exists... Because objectively there is a problem of demographic collapse in Poland. There are a number of problems concerning the pension system, let's call it solidarity, which means that the contributions of people currently paying are de facto paid benefits for those who no longer work. We can debate on this, but we need to take society seriously, we need to take citizens seriously. It wasn't done. Arbitrally, a certain solution was forcefully pushed through. What the Senators of the Civic Platform showed us today was that it was alibi-making for that way of proceding on such an important issue, which until today raises a general opposition to the social challenge to return to the previous retirement age is a demand supported by most Poles. That is the irresponsibleness of the state. At the moment, there are such crocodile tears and words of how poor the pensioner will be, what misfortunes await him and what a threat it is to the finances, to the Social Insurance Fund. You should have had a serious discussion about this with the public, ladies and gentlemen. And don't be surprised that there's a reaction right now. Most people still haven't come to terms with the increase in retirement age. All of this shows extreme carelessness, and above all, disregard for public opinion. I would like once again, through the Minister, to thank the President, he has announced, he has submitted a proposal and today we are proceeding with the bill. I hope that it will soon be signed by the President and that the previous retirement age will be restored from 1 October 2017. I would like to point out that on fundamental issues, i.e. the calculation of pension benefits and the rules for retirement, nothing changes in this project. I asked the Minister about it and he confirmed from the Senate stand that nothing is changing in this respect. I don't think much of it, but my point is that if we did a simulation, they calculated the total amount of benefit for a person who retires at the age of 60, on these terms, the length of her life would be, for example. 81 years old, and they compared it to the total amount of a person who had previously done the same job would have retired at the age of 67, the length of her life would have been 81 years old too, it would have turned out that these total amounts In total 14 years and in total twenty-one years They'd be comparable. But, as the Minister emphasized, the citizen will have the right to choose. It's not like he's going to have to retire, he's going to be forced to retire. He can still be active in the labour market and he can consider the matter himself. It is simply an element of empowering a citizen who will decide for himself his own reality and his material situation, whether he wants to continue working, does not want to retire, or can retire and maybe earn himself a pension. This is where the rules don't change at all. Of course, the longer you work, the higher the amount of this benefit, except that the average download period will, of course, be shorter, because here is the principle that is currently in force, so the reference to life expectancy. So, High Izbo, I am very glad that this project is finally being conducted in the Senate. I hope that the results of this solution will be And in a social, economic and economic sense, it's obvious. But there's also what the Minister paid attention to. The fact that, in fact, the level of pensions, in general, depends on so many variable factors that at the moment, whether black or incredibly optimistic visions, the forecasts that would be included here, are, in fact, a fortune teller of fuss. And we really see how the variables in the scope that we are talking about have changed from the moment the president submitted the project to the Marshal's staff in the Seym to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u265	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u266	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I can't talk enthusiastically, like my predecessor, about going back to the retirement age of 65 for men and 60 for women. This perverts the whole idea of the pension system, yes, the whole idea of the pension system. This will lead to a situation which is impossible to maintain in the longer term, i.e. to a situation where 70% citizens will get something like a citizen's pension That's what I'd call it. The role of the state is primarily to take care of its citizens and to inform them of the consequences of the laws implemented. I repeat: inform them. Today, PiS is trying to play the role of a good uncle and says you won't have to work anymore! He says this instead of telling the truth: yes, we are lowering the retirement age for citizens, but you will have much less pensions. That should be the narrative. And it is, and it will be true. Because the reduced retirement age will practically remove the relationship between the amount of contributions set aside and the amount of the pension benefit in the case of a large majority of the population. This means practically introducing civic pensions for more than 2/3 of citizens born after 1990. This will lead to absurdity of the current Polish pension system and will make its maintenance really, for economic reasons, believe me. It's not real. I address the state of government. Why don't you have the courage to tell the Poles what this bill is really about? Why aren't you telling us that we've been living longer and that society is getting older? At present, we have 4.2 employees per pensioner, and in 2030 this will be 2.6 workers. Why don't you say that this reform means that women instead of 2,000 zlotys will have less than 1 thousand 300 zlotys, and men instead of 2,000 zlotys... here is a little less loss because they will have 1 thousand 650 zlotys. You often use such arguments that you need to reduce your retirement age because there are professions in which women aged 60 should no longer work. I agree that there are competitions. Except not all these professions... and not all of them have to benefit from retirement benefits. I've been an entrepreneur for 26 years. I really know something about it. I live with these people every day. There are other benefits that are provided for such persons. It should not be that for several professions, the state is changing the whole pension system and you are actually hurting people who are actually going to get starving pensions in the future. I believe that this law destroys the pension system of Poles and poses a threat that this system will eventually cease to exist in practice. You're hurting our children and grandchildren with this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we really have two ways. One way we've now started going, which we've been going for a year, leading towards the Greek way, and the other way... I am a frontier man, and every day I observe the life and wisdom of the German people. They've been preparing this pension for 10 and 12 years. And do you know what the conclusion is these days? They argue today whether the retirement age will be 70 years or 72 years. Look what the difference is between us who are always impulsively flying, running in chaos, and then repairing, repairing and spoiling... [[We're jealous.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time I've been a senator, I've been here a year. And as an entrepreneur, I haven't heard here all this year that we've been proceding at least one bill that will allow us to partially fill the budget in the near future. And that's the question I'm leaving you with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u267	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As promised, I will speak in another tone. I will not even straighten out the false information that Senator Jackowski has presented here, nor will the Minister's statements on the alleged age reduction or retirement in Germany. Yes, indeed, the internship has been reduced, Minister, temporarily, for two years, but it's because there were surpluses. And that's how the supply system works in Germany. But no one promises to lower the retirement age. Ladies and gentlemen, when a higher retirement age was introduced and the retirement age of men and women equalized, I had great doubts. The doubts were that it was too mechanical, too rigid. And while I have not questioned and still do not question the very need, I think that in a political sense it is a purpose, this law has been used in bad faith, to reverse even the worse way, namely blocking, freezing the system in terms of age at the communist level. Here is President Duda referring in terms of age to the communist system, as if forgetting, as it has already been said, that later you enter the age of professional activity and PiS added one more year last year, because of seven... And during this period of professional activity there are plenty of empty moments, like unemployment, trips, even family situations... ♪ And above all ♪ What, I admit, I wasn't able to fight either. A lot of people in this system go stowaways. All of this makes me want to offer you a thought today. At that time I proposed a draft resolution on the dialogue on the pension system and I believe that almost all its content is up to date. For the sake of time, I'll allow myself to quote only a part of it. It is a direct request to resume work on the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which would sound something like this: The Senate of the Republic of Poland sees the need for further changes in the general pension system, so that in conditions of demographic deficit and maintaining the balance of public finances, it will provide citizens with a decent benefit for old age. It takes time to develop a pension system that will ensure greater complexity, coherence and social security for future pensioners. Legislation should therefore take into account existing risks to the employment opportunities of older people, their psychophysical conditions, and safeguard appropriate health protection. On the other hand, it is important to safeguard the idea of generational solidarity by maintaining the universality of the social security system and preventing pathologies, such as overprivilegation of certain particularly wealthy groups. The Senate of the Republic of Poland invites the government, political parties, social partners, representatives of non-governmental organisations and other participants in the social dialogue to present to the Parliament of the Republic of Poland projects and initiatives which meet the economic needs of the country with the concerns of the insured by 30 September. It is necessary to humbly give up some of our own reasons. Real support for the welfare of insurance is needed. The Senate authorizes the Senate Marshal to initiate action to this end. What topics? It's only a short time. Privileges in KRUS, mining pensions; deficiencies: capital pensions, upgrades of piers... The lack of attractiveness of the ZUS. Today, people are stowaways in the ZUS. We have to make ZUS more attractive than our banks always invest in them. Further, it is necessary to develop and otherwise build the third pillar of capital or other. Maybe one that even the government mentions. I also believe that it is necessary to improve uniform pensions. These are, of course, just a few topics that could be the subject of... But, as I said, it must be coherently and comprehensively resolved, not at random, and especially not during the election campaigns that we There's another one waiting. I thank the High House for its attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u269	Thank you very much. This is a resolution, right? [[Resolution... motion to resume work on this resolution.]] [[New form.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the time to submit a draft resolution because it is not an integral part of this law. The legislator will explain to the senator the procedure for submitting a draft resolution. It consists of a Marshal of the Senate. It's enough for the senator to sign this project himself. So now we're gonna sort this out. And I ask that you take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u270	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Applicants are trying to put this law in a good light as if it had some important benefits, important values for those who are supposed to be waiting for early retirement. In a moment, I'll refer to whether they're really waiting. So this bill shows up, like someone's gonna benefit from it. Let's think about it. Who's gonna benefit from this bill, and what? How about seniors? Ladies and gentlemen, we have received from the Minister of Government calculations, this government, which shows that women will lose nearly PLN 3 000 a month at a peak, starting with a small amount, of course, but after 3 years it will be at least PLN 500. Clearly, then, seniors will not benefit from this. Since the new pension system has already significantly reduced pension benefits, new pension benefits need to be added to these reductions. This is a very bad proposition. You're aware of that, because you're about to say that, right, you're gonna be able to make extra money. Tell me honestly that pensions will be so low that not only will it not be any choice, but it will be necessary, because for these pensions, according to this system, just most people will not be able to live, will receive them absolutely at the lowest level already in the 10-year perspective. But maybe somebody else will benefit from it. Maybe they'll benefit from it. They even tried to command it here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the amazing thing about this proposal is that not only will pensioners receive very low benefits, but in addition it will increase the debt of the pension fund, which will have to be compensated by increased subsidies, for which we did not have money and there is no indication that we will have them, so this money will have to be borrowed. And that's what young people will have to pay for it unconditionally. No one's gonna let this go. Therefore, this law is also dangerous for them, for the entire young generation, which must expect that it will have to bear the financing of pensions and social assistance for a huge group of older people. Let me not mention the need, the growing need to regulate long-term care. And finally. Maybe it'll benefit the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have pensioners who will be empty in their wallets, who will be buying? How will we stimulate internal consumption? If we lose people who want to work in a situation where millions of young people are unable to fill the gap waiting for workers, who's going to invest here? How will the economy develop? Ladies and gentlemen, this law cannot be seen in isolation from the situation of the whole country. You show it this way, and this is one big misunderstanding. Poles do not want this solution. This is shown by research, but reliable research, not with the question of "Would you like to retire early?" only with the question "Would you like to retire early, knowing that this is all you will lose?" And what do the Poles say? Close to 60% I don't want that solution. It is a misunderstanding that you manipulate your emotions, damaging the real economy. If there's a gentleman who's happy about it No, I don't mean this gentleman. This is Mr. Populism. Ladies and gentlemen, others do the opposite, trying to make retirement age dependent on increasing life expectancy. They promote work ethos so that it is not a curse. They are trying to help older people find themselves in the labour market, which you are not doing because there is no proposal in this regard. Finally, Mr Marshal, Minister, I would like to invite you to join the Polish family in about 10 years' time. Grandma! Grandpa! Mom! Dad! We got 500+ on the new brother. We also have news: we are now retiring. It will be for me and for my grandmother by 1 thousand PLN lower. Can you help? That's enough. [[We'll help.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u271	Mr. Senator Silence. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Unlike my previous speakers, I will not be so cassandrical in assessing the effects of this law. Nor can I with such an actress talent as my previous speakers, and sometimes even with a certain amount of manipulation, present the matter which is the subject of our deliberations. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me be honest, and rarely do I use pejorative terms for my opponents, that I have really seen in the statements of a large amount of manipulation and propaganda that this law does not deserve, even if you have a critical attitude to which you have the right. Dear Senator Rulewski... He left, unfortunately. [[We'll pass it on.]] With all due respect to Senator Rulewski, who is a historical figure in the 1980s, I will say that referring to the fact that we are supposedly restoring communist solutions here, because we are returning to the age of 65 and 60, is a thick, thick manipulation and is really not appropriate to use such arguments. Well, on the same principle, when someone wants to return to other solutions that have lasted for centuries and existed regardless of political systems, they existed in both the pre-war and post-war systems... It is not possible because they survived in the communist period, and because we are returning to these solutions, to use the term, Mr. Senator Rulewski... [[He's talking to you.]] ...that we are returning to the communist system. [[Of course.]] Because from the very comparison of numbers, these 65 and 60, you can't derive any ideological connections and connections. This is the first case. Second thing. Indeed, in terms of the conditions for the transition to pensions, our legislation does not sin with precision. The best evidence is that at the moment, gentlemen, it is quite difficult to find a lawyer in Poland who would undertake such cases, because the amount of work in relation to the ridiculous fee that lawyers receive is so disproportionate that it really takes a large amount of such, I would say, charity enthusiasm to do something like this. Sadly, there are fewer people who are willing to do charity work today. And the last change that the Platform unfortunately made by introducing this higher required retirement age, and even worse, adding to it a solution which, for all those who retire, ordered them to stop working, because otherwise they are suspended from retirement, was certainly an unfortunate solution. Part of the second solution we managed to overthrow, because we collected 30 senators' signatures, led to... I had the pleasure of being the initiator of this action, and then... Because I've already stopped being a senator A representative before the Constitutional Tribunal who stated that the requirement to stop working, at least as regards those who have retired before the date of entry into force of that provision, i.e. before 1 January 2011, is contrary to the Constitution, with the principle of acquired rights and fair, fair legislation. However, this requirement remained for retiring persons after 1 January 2011. And it still exists. Therefore, raising the gap that the situation, when we reduce retirement age, will lead to the mass transition of people into pensions, that it will destabilise the labour market, that these people will be very disadvantaged here, because they will get... I do not know where these calculations come from, that supposedly when you work 5 or 7 years less, the pension is supposed to be less than 1/3. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Well, I'll admit I've never been an ace of math, but it seems absurd to me to have a working time of 1/8 or 1/7 to project in such a way that pension or pension benefits would be reduced by 1/3. If that is the case, it is a reason to change it as well. Like, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to claim that pensions, which are certainly not sufficient and which do not provide a decent life, are in themselves a reason to force people to work at times, which they would have if people wanted to retire and they were forced to work almost slave nature. So in order to stay alive, a very poor pension is set up, and people are told what a blessing it is to them to keep working. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this is the way. That is why I think it would be wise to follow this solution, which we are adopting, to go even one step further. I believe that this is perhaps a solution for the future in order to eliminate this regulation, which at the moment still requires an employee who retires, to terminate his employment for at least one day. I would remind you that for a time it did not apply. Here, on the basis of a sineoid, once this requirement was introduced, then it fell, then it was introduced again, and so far it exists. But in any case, the fact that he exists, at least for those opponents who oppose a reduction in retirement age, is also some guarantee that not necessarily everyone who reaches retirement age will retire. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, I would also remind you that we are not talking about mandatory, we are talking about optional retirement. Someone who wants to retire is gonna retire. And someone who wants to improve their living conditions, because pensions are unfortunately what they are, will be able to continue to work. [[As long as he's accepted.]] As long as he's accepted, of course. Senator Rulewski is right. That's why I'm in favour of art. 103a, which still undertakes to terminate the employment relationship for at least one day, shall be repealed. And I hope someday that happens. But, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, this is only a possibility for those who... Because if they think they're tired enough to work or want to take care of, let's say, grandchildren, do they have any hobbies, then why force them to work almost forever? Besides, ladies and gentlemen, the argument you are applying that in other European countries this age has been increased or increased, indeed it would seem to be right, but only seemingly. Because you have to compare the working conditions and how many years people live there on average, ladies and gentlemen. Working conditions in Western countries are incomparably better and there people live incomparably longer. This country is not taken into account, and this is very important in setting this age limit. That is why I am fully in favour of this bill not only because the President has committed himself to it and I believe that he has rightly committed himself... I am happy to sign up for this because we are returning to normality and we are returning to the real will of society, which has unfortunately previously been completely ignored. I'm not gonna say this again, because this thread Mr. Senator Jackowski presented here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u274	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In corrigendum mode. The Lord highly venerable Senator Cichoń used not only my name, but also certain terms which I don't think he understood, and which I will allow myself to recall. I didn't accuse the President of being a communist, and I didn't think that he was somehow referring to communism. [[I didn't say that.]] But there is no doubt that the decree of the retirement age, the size of pensions from the position of the President's Chancellery, is the lunar economy, that is the communist economy. You didn't understand me either, Senator, when it comes to the fact that I force people to work constantly, almost like a slave system. Today's system And I'm in favour of it, too. He doesn't force anyone to work. He can suspend his job and pay his contributions to retire at the age of 67.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u275	Senator Wach. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I actually wanted to start with the fact that I am very proud that in the previous term of office the Civic Platform with great effort and with great exposure carried out the pension bill that we are to change today. I think it was a very good bill. This effort was based on the fact that there was really no social consent, no broad public consent. I remember the day of the protests, in particular the protests of Solidarity in the area... or around the Sejm and the Senate, through which we could not get here. All difficult and far-reaching matters Or most of them. They require great effort and sometimes conduct and walking against the current. It was a bill that... This is a bill. 'Cause she's still in force right now. Which, in fact, seems to be moving very slowly, very carefully and actually creating opportunities for this age. maybe not at all a solution to the problem, but at least it postponed it in a decent way for people and at the same time bearable for the budget and future of the state for quite a long time, allowing as if to look for further solutions. We're supposed to bring it down today. I actually wanted to say very clearly that despite all the criticism, I am also proud, and I think it was an important and good thing that we did. The present law, this project that we are discussing today, I want to criticize from a slightly different angle than the colleagues who have performed here. As far as this criticism is concerned, it actually overlaps to a large extent and mainly concerns two matters with which we have to agree. First of all, the prospect of low pensions for people who retire later In fact, the later, the worse the second, the very bad, if not the disastrous consequences for the state budget. And this criticism is right. However, I would like to criticise this from a different point of view, in the context of the problem that Senator Florek has touched or raised in his statement, namely the uncertainty of the law. That's the worst part. Retirement systems and determining how to retire and pay this pension are actually far-reaching and sensitive, with a time horizon as far away as possible and possibly even further. Not in matters of education that we'll be discussing in some time. This legal uncertainty is the fact that today the retirement age is falling, that it is allowed to work under conditions where the continuity of work is to be interrupted, but no one here has guaranteed that this solution will remain for later that it will continue to be so. No one said it was forever or very... that the law would not change in this respect. Well, there's a white paper, there's a pension review, there's balloons that test different options. And that's civil pensions, and that's restrictions, and so on. etc. What's the outcome? Nobody knows that. But this will take place in a relatively short time horizon. And these various sharpenings, which will result in ad hoc, in different situations in all the chaos that will arise, will actually hurt pensioners. Perhaps it will be limited from the top of the pension already existing, perhaps it will move in for new pensioners a very low civic pension... This will mean everything, or at least it can mean a very unfair way, because the most important thing is missing: constitutional protection is lacking. And our problem is that we won't have constitutional protection for a long time, and the acquired rights won't count, or they'll count, as will be the convenient ruling majority. And that's why I warn all retired people: there's nothing to be happy about. Only those who are going to retire in the near future can be happy, and the sooner it comes out, maybe for some time they will work in parallel with retirement. But the further away from the entry into force of the law, which is from October next year, the worse, and thus the lack of constitutional protection. This is where you hit the alarm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u277	Thank you. Senator Czarnobaj, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! Let me just say that today's speech is as if I'm just going to short-cut what I read and noted, and it's a few bits from a study that was done by the Polish Economists' Society together with the Institute of Economic Studies. So this has not been prepared by people who in any way are involved in these political discussions, which we often create here and which are taking place in this room. I'm gonna use some of the facts they're giving me. But before I say this, I'm going to make a few more remarks about earlier speeches, especially Senator Cichoń. An excellent lawyer, but what we've heard here... Very good, I guess. And here I praise those who just brought it in. That there's a math exam. Because, as you can see, it's not enough to be a good lawyer. You still need to be able to associate good law with good economic results. It was raining here, in this discussion, the voices that we're bringing all this into finance, and actually it shouldn't be brought into finance. So here's what I'm going to say: the introduction of the existing law by the Civic Platform and the PSL was, to put it mildly, slightly underestimated. It's what Senator Wach said beautifully here, which is that we couldn't convince most of society to do what was the result. We have not taken into account many of the demands that we are discussing today and which many senators have spoken about. We didn't transfer them to the bill. It could be said that it was a failure, perhaps even a mistake concerning this bill, as it has been said many times here. But what you're doing is a cardinal error! 'Cause why would Senator Rulewski, who's got probably the highest authority on this issue? As he looked from different directions, and at the system of political economics of socialism, and at the system of political economics of capitalism When you look at what you're doing here, there are similarities... I would also like to say that when I listened to this discussion, I remembered how my professor at the university asked us a question: you know, beloved students, what is the difference between the political economy of socialism and the political economy of capitalism? We beginners, of course, didn't know. He said there's a fundamental difference. And you show that difference. In the political economy of capitalism, the main principle is the use of man by man, and in the political economy of socialism is exactly the opposite. And you want to prove it, you want to prove it, without having total respect for the state budget, for the future, for the history and state of the Polish economy, the state of Polish families in terms of income. So I'm not gonna talk about what happened here anymore... I'm just gonna talk to... Oh, two more pieces. I asked the Minister when they introduced these 65 and 60 years, because I don't know if that's true, but I read it somewhere, and it slipped my mind that it was 80 years ago. I'll check it out. If the Minister finds out... Because I'm curious when it was introduced. If that's true, for 80 years, a little in life expectancy, quality of life... Here I think that we have had a good discussion with the marshal and that it is right to suggest to the marshal that this law, which is still in force today, has not taken into account at least a few of these elements, Mr Marshal. And I admit we didn't take that into account, and that's probably a mistake of the bill. But I am going, ladies and gentlemen, to short quotes from the studies of the members of the Polish Economics Association and the Institute of Economic Studies, that is, institutions that have no political color. What do these people say about the project? Of course, I've only made a few notes. I want to confirm once again that these are the development of these people. These authors write: as a result of the introduction of this law, the professional activity of Poles will fall. It's been changing. I'm not doing anything I will not say new, I just want you to hear not only the interpretation of Mieczysław's colleague, an excellent professional in this industry, but also those who write about the draft of this law. The pension will be reduced by PLN 700 to PLN 1 000 for men, from PLN 1 000 to PLN 1 000 800 for women. It's been changing. It's like confirming everything that's happened here. These authors write that the proposal is particularly harmful to young people and state why: they start working later, because they are studying longer, they will live longer and as taxpayers will bear higher costs for the functioning of the whole system and the functioning of the state. Then they write: the number of workers working by 2025 as a result of the introduction of this law will decrease by 900 000 people, and by 2050 by 1 million 800. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you have contacts with your employers, please ask them who is missing today and what is missing today, apart from, of course, the stability of the rules. Professor Wach has already told you about this. This is something that's already become the norm. Maybe some people will get used to it. But today, there's a shortage of professionals. And if we are talking about responsible development, then responsible development must be based on people, and it must be well-educated, or long-term learners. The authors then write that the employment rate will fall by 3% in 2025 and by 6.5% in 2050; the number of pensioners will increase by 500 000 in 2025 and by 1 million 300 in 2050; the load factor for people of working age will rise to 0.86... In short, it can be said that in 2050, this is what Senator Komarnicki was talking about. It's almost 1:1. That's something no country can handle. And these are the socio-political issues. And now two words about the economic sphere. Important indicator, GDP, in 2025 will be 2% lower The economists are writing this. In 2050, it was 4.5%. And they say it's about 180 billion zlotys. Is that what you want, dears? I understand that all these elements about which there was such a very good discussion were discussed about these 67 years in the case of pilots, nurses, etc. It is important to take into account, but economics is important. It's a shame Senator Silence isn't here. As my friend said, remember, when there's no money, even the most beautiful love dies. And he got divorced. [[Joy in the Chamber]] These economists also show an impact on public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2050, I will no longer quote all this data. In 2050 to the welfare fund, countries, special funds will have to be paid at the level of PLN 12 billion, at present prices. The revenue of the state budget will fall by about 10 billion, of course compared to today's situation, and subsidies to the lowest pensions... After all, the lowest pension rate is indicated. They calculated that if you keep this level It's probably 1,000 or something. It's going to take at least 30 billion zlotys. So, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit counting, that's going to be 50 and 60 billion zlotys. The deterioration of the material situation of people who retire, and their families, lack of economic development of Poland, reduced money that affects the budget, etc. The effect of this is simple, unpassed, without deep thought, the introduction of this law on the tracks: 65 and 60. This is done as follows. Ladies and gentlemen, during the election campaign, you go out in front of people and they say 65 and 60. And then you come and you say... Ladies and gentlemen, the result will be... I wish all of us, especially those who recommend this bill so highly here, that we meet in 15 years. [[Can't do it.]] [[I don't think we're gonna see each other again.]] [[Yeah, let's meet.]] I'd like to hear I see you in the ministerial benches what you will say then, how Poland will be... And here I am going back to your password. I kind of agree with your slogan from the time of the election campaign, Poland in ruins. Only it is not that Poland is in ruins, which you preached, only that Poland will be in ruins. And that's what we have to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u279	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! After Senator Czarnobaj's very substantive speech... Thank you for those numbers. I hope it doesn't work out. Why do I have concerns about whether they will work? Of course, I am pleased that the discussion is factual, that we are talking about different topics and look at the retirement age from different perspectives. I would like to show my perspective of a doctor who sees people of retirement age both working and those who come as patients. Why is it so important? That's what Senator Silence was talking about. Poland will reach the average age of life for the average highly industrialised country of North Europe, Western Europe in 2035. I do not really understand why we should work today as much as the long-lived inhabitants of Norway, Switzerland or Germany. I'd just like to say that a man was dying a little while ago... In fact, if he was gonna get a pension at 67, he wouldn't be taking it. If the average life expectancy of a man is 73 years at the moment, that's what Senator Slugocki was talking about. Colleagues, how old does a man take retirement? We can keep it going, not 67, but 69. He's gonna have a bigger salary, the shorter he lives, the more he's gonna have a pension, because that's the conversion rate. We can, of course, work until we die. That's not what bothers me. I do not know if this subject was raised; our activity is very different, we do not always stay in the room. I'm sick of women's retirement age. If women live over 80 years, they'll be retired for 20 years. I wouldn't worry about them taking less retirement because they work less. I'd be worried that they're taking this pension much longer than men. So with regard to equality of society as a whole, I feel a little unsatisfied about the same retirement age for men and women. From the doctor's point of view... When it comes to the psychophysical performance of women aged 65 years, it is much better than men. It may be a less hygienic way of life for men, but given my colleagues, unfortunately, I must say that women of this age are much better workers than men. I personally would be in favour of turning this century around, which is 60 for men, 65 for women... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Why not?]] [[Bravo! Bravo!]] But since the Law and Justice with the slogan "65" for men, 60 for women have won the election, and I am in this majority of the governing, I support this, but with the various comments I share with you. Somehow I haven't heard anyone raise the unemployment problem. Everyone thinks that extending the retirement age and now shortening it is a big problem. I'm very sorry, but I think that reducing the retirement age and reducing unemployment Mr. Czarnobaj will be perfectly able to count it. It is a better trend than extending the retirement age. Let's reduce unemployment, do everything we can to reduce unemployment. Why, when we travel abroad, we see taboons of well-equipped German pensioners because there are most of them. In the southern countries of Thailand? They have the money to retire. Well, let's not take this opportunity from Poles. I would also like to see Polish pensioners with a good pension... good retirement will be when there is no unemployment. This is not entirely possible, but if we were for example. They went down to the US unemployment rate, to 4%, would it not allow the minimum unemployment to increase pensions in the case of early retirement? I think it would. I would also like to raise the problem of working opportunities for 60+ people. The work is very different. Right now, this is how we unify it: 60, 65. There have been problems with different jobs. I have to say, these different workplaces are so kind of that I'm laughing at myself. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, we've blocked the possibility of young people getting promoted because in my community, no one's going to retire, working where they can. He's the head of the cathedral, he's the president, he's the director, the posts are blocked. I don't know if that's a good trend, because young people leave without the possibility of vertical promotion. So that with this retirement age there are a lot of problems that we do not deal with here. There was, of course, a problem with retirement... I think Senator Cichoń was talking about something that we don't work one day, we go to work again, and then we get a pension and a salary. It should be considered whether, in fact, we have a social right to remain in the same position when we retire. If I'm retired, I can't be president, director, director of the cathedral anymore. Sorry, we also have to look at society for the promotion of young people. I haven't heard of it. You're not worried about the young, you're worried about the retired. I think the pensioner, if he's healthy, can handle it. If there is respect for the work of older people. The fact that they're a little less efficient or the fact that we're supposed to be They can't do all the things young people can do... But from my point of view, older people are more responsible. They're always at work in the morning. There's no explanation, there's no traffic, there's no bus that's late. I don't have a problem with older workers at work, I have a problem with young workers. They always have some explanation for why they're not at work, why they're late. But we don't create respect for the elderly in society. I don't see it in the press or on TV. All I see is that someone is young and beautiful. Well, if he's a celebrity, of course he's still rich. I'd like to see a well-equipped, smiling, chamomile, ungrown retiree or a retired woman with a purse that goes out for coffee to talk to a second retired woman without worrying about whether she has money for rent or electricity. And it doesn't matter what retirement age it is, it's what financial resources we can provide to these pensioners. To conclude, let me say this: I very much hope that the sustainable development plan, the government plan of Mrs Beata Szydło and Mr Morawiecki, will give the chance that we will be able to provide pensioners with a decent pension, so that they too can rest in the southern countries or in Thailand. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u281	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The pension system, or, in fact, the pension system of the state, is the basis of a well-functioning society, because there are few functions for decades of a state that must unite generations and at the same time give a sense of justice and social solidarity. A good pension system finds a golden measure between the current budgetary opportunities and the expectations of current pensioners. It also takes into account demographics, labour market situations and the level of health of citizens. Any attempt to overturn solutions that operate on the basis of a broad social agreement, which result from tradition, the distribution of social roles, expectations, can disturb this stable system, causing at least the loss of citizens' confidence in the rulers and a sense of injustice. This was the case in 2012. Unannounced in the electoral program, without taking into account millions of opposition signatures, the coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has made such an upturn. Poles were made happy by force. We were deceived by the promises of high pensions, the labour market welcoming women after sixty-sixty with open hands, and the men after sixty-five, until the sixty-seventh. It was explained that without this maneuver the budget of the ZUS will collapse and Poles will retire hungry. In addition, citizens were also told that the whole of Europe, that the whole world does so, and that, in order to move forward, we too must work until death. One of the arguments was the calculation of economists who probably rarely experience normal human empathy. There was a complete reversal of the meaning of the pension system, and Poles were told that they could only buy a decent pension if they stayed in line for longer. It has been forgotten that pensioners in every generation are on the pot of those who are working, who are developing the economy, building this famous gross domestic product. It is these elements that are the first to ensure a decent life for pensioners. Didn't retired people in bankrupt European countries get high pensions? They've worked, but it's the current government that's causing the pension system to crash. Our children and grandchildren, if they have a well-paid job in the rapidly growing Polish economy, will keep the future ZUS so that we will have enough for the first time. I am grateful to the President and to my political environment and to the trade unions for their determination and consistency in restoring the proper order. This is what people wanted, ordinary Poles concerned about what conditions They're gonna spend the fall of their lives. We give people hope that their affairs can go and go in the right direction. We strengthen Polish families, increase the minimum wage, set the minimum hourly rate, reduce unemployment, develop the economy, place dams for the flow of our common money and abroad, and to dishonest pockets. This is how we care about people, including current pensioners. We will be pleased by each Pole after sixty-five years of age, and each Pole after sixty years of age, who will be able to work, who will want to work, whose health and condition will allow to continue to work. I will vote with full conviction to return to the previous retirement age, as President Andrzej Duda has proposed, as the Poles want. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u283	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I see that electoral rhetoric is still dominant. Gentlemen of the Senators of the ruling group! The election is over, and right now you're in charge and you have to be responsible! The platform chose hot chestnuts from the fire for you. By raising her retirement age, she lost the election by introducing a pension reform. Yeah, that was one of the reasons for losing the Platform. And it seemed that you would continue to rule after the elections in a way that would ensure the stability of the economy, finance, and economic development. It is not that our pensioners will look like German pensioners, because Germany will pay for it or the European Union will give us money for it. All of this needs to be worked out on its own. Demography is a strict science, everything can be calculated, e.g. the age of those who do not work, because there are children and young people, because they are retired, as the average age of people living in Poland increases, because this age has increased, since 1990, increased by nearly 6 years and will increase. And the problem is that if you go backwards, you're gonna make the extra costs of the ZUS, which we're already paying back, increase by 6 million... [[Voices from the room: Billions.]] ...billion dollars, then at 10 and then at the end of the day. By 100 billion to arrive somewhere in 2060, it seems, 400 billion. It's money! It's money! It's money! No one, no economy... And I'm sure our economy and our finances can't stand it. I understand why you decide to withdraw the retirement age arrangements. I also understand why the announcement was before the election. That's why the platform lost, and you won. And now you want to go on like this, continue this, and say before the next election, if they win, they'll take it away from you. You want to win the next election this way! And the accumulation of problems will be a matter of not this term of office, not yet another term, but another term, and in these terms there will probably be no more of us, and that government will not be, and that president will not be. There will be others who will have to make difficult decisions again. And maybe someone will show up like the Italian Five Star Movement, who will say, retirement from the age of 50 and 55! That's the way it is right now. Ukraine. And, of course, retired people are much better off there because they work less. Well, you can suggest that. But that's not true. The success of the economy and economic development does not come from pensions, it comes from work, and pensions are of course the benefits of this work. But first we have to work something out. I already told you why the PiS decided to do this. Because the negative results will come later, and not even for the next term. The ratio... At the moment, we have this ratio: 1/3 of those who don't work to 2/3 of those who work. But she's changing, to the detriment of the workers, to the detriment of the number of employees. By 2050, it'll be 50-50. 1 working will be for 1 not working. And what, then do you do the pension reform? Then it'll be too late. So as not to be literal They're gonna be... pensions are gonna be much lower. There is no discussion about this. A woman born in 1974 who had a pension of PLN 3 000 904 will have a pension of PLN 2 000 386. That is less than PLN 1 thousand 518. This difference will mainly concern women. It's gonna be a big problem. These people are gonna have to get state support, they're gonna have to be paid extra. And will it be of what? I have concerns about that. I will repeat myself, but I will say that I will not be in this House in 15, 20 years' time, and a large part of the country will not be there either. That doesn't mean I shouldn't think as a senator. also about those who will then be here, about future generations. I am aware that you will wave your hand at what I am saying and that you will vote as you have been told. But we will really have a problem together, maybe not in this House anymore, maybe outside this House. We'll be co-responsible for all of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u285	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn will now speak. I understand it'll be five minutes, Senator. Second performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, the pension problem is extremely important. It should be considered in a broader context, in the context of senior policy. There was talk of how quickly older people will arrive. When we implemented these solutions, a huge flaw Unfortunately, this is also the case now, because no significant progress is proposed in supporting the employment of older people, and no new incentives are being created. Minister, it is not enough to conclude that unemployment among older people is relatively higher than that of other generations. You're saying there's gonna be a way to make some money. We need to show you how it's gonna be possible. Then perhaps this proposal will be fairer. Let us remember that those who are now in the labour market and who will reach retirement age will be other people from year to year. They will be our peers, very often those with a higher education. Today there are half as many pensioners as there are in other generations. It's gonna be completely different in the future. This is a huge potential that should work for the economy. It is necessary to encourage older people to work, not, as Senator Silence rightly said, to force them to work in poverty. There must be incentives for employers not to let them out of their hands because of their experience, because of their knowledge, because of their unique interpersonal skills, which young people cannot have because of their age. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made some commitments in the European Union. One is that the employment rate of older people will increase to 70%. Meanwhile, as the Minister said, we are far from doing so. However, it must be said that after the withdrawal of many pension privileges, after this change has been introduced, as the fellow senators have rightly pointed out here, the situation in this area will improve. This is very important for the economy, not just for the pension system. We can't afford to retire the seniors before. It is disastrous for the economy, not only for the labour market, because of the skills that seniors have. Finally, one correction. The professor who prepared me to speak in the Union was Professor Irena Kotowska. With you, Professor. I was preparing for this, too, but on a much smaller scale. We proved there that there was more employment for older people And there's static evidence of that. It means more employment, better employability for young people, because it shows that we do not take debts that hinder investment, but invest in development. More work means more prosperity. Too bad Janek Rulewski's not here. During the discussion of that law, in 2012 we met with the leadership of the Inowroclaw Solidarity Council. It was hot, it was after a union, it was interrupting each other, and finally a Finnish representative took the floor, who put in place a new pension system. And I remember exactly how the situation calmed down when he started his presentation, and he started it with simple words that were understandable to everyone, also to the burning heads of the unionists. Well, he said that the source of prosperity that has been invoked here in relation to Germany and other countries of prosperity, which makes work lighter, and pension greater is work, not pension. Retirement is a source of prosperity and will grow if we work hard on it, using the potential of all of us wisely, including a growing group of seniors. And this bill goes across what should be done. That's too bad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u287	Thank you very much. And Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u288	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would divide my speech into two parts: the first part will be political and the second part will be substantive. In the first part, in the political part, I would like to say that today we are restoring this previous retirement age, which has been raised under the rule of the Platform. As I said in my speech and answering Senator Augustine's questions, it was done very brutally, very quickly. It's a reference to different countries... It is still referred to Germany, but it was there that people who had already started their career, the increase in retirement age in Germany also raised it to the sixty-seventh year of age, de facto were not included, while with us... I'm going to give you an example of my mom, who had to, so to speak, chase this retirement when she was already at the end of her career. So quickly you introduced these solutions that they triggered social protests. Not only trade unions, but mostly ordinary people. It comes out in all the polls, in all the public opinion polls. And I think one of those... I've had hundreds of, well, maybe not hundreds, I don't want to overreact, but I've had a lot of meetings in the election campaign, and I can tell you that almost all the meetings were going through the question: will you really go back to this old retirement age? I'll even say that people didn't really believe in the 500+ programme because it was an abstraction, it wasn't then, but the pension issue was a common expectation and even a demand to restore this lower retirement age. And today, when I say "my" I mean the Law and Justice, of course, but here is also the important role of President Andrzej Duda and we respond to these expectations. People wanted to return to that retirement age that used to be. And we today, in fulfilling our electoral promise, also show that we can promise and can be fulfilled. You can promise, and we just promised, we didn't cover up, we didn't cheat, we said we wanted this retirement age back. And today we are fulfilling that promise. This is one point, very important to us, politically: to keep the promise we made. Now I would like to focus on the substantive issues, which were also partly raised here. We're in the middle of this debate... And Minister Rafalska is not running away from it. The Social Insurance Institution is doing various kinds of analyses. They also result from certain statutory requirements, as there must be a pension review. But we will have to think about the target pension system, which will be in Poland. Because... I agree with this obvious statement that some people's pensions will be lower. But, ladies and gentlemen, they will be lower because the reform was introduced in 1999. One thing has been changed in this reform in 1999. I don't even know if the politicians who made it. Of course, I would not want to accuse anyone of not knowing about it. A 99.9% Polish citizens were not aware of this. We in the reform in 1999 changed one principle, namely from a defined statement to a defined contribution. And that's what caused the low retirement. [[It's not just that.]] People were told OFE, investments, advertising, palm trees, one of the singers advertised OFE, a lot of the people who managed OFE earned on it, that is, the general pension societies earned on it. And it wasn't until the first pensions came out of the OFE that... We were almost 100% in 1999 They combined the amount of future pensions with the amount of money we paid. Until 1999, there was no such thing. Of course, the size of the pension depended on a certain period of time when you were earning, there were 3 options for calculating your pension, to choose from. But it had nothing to do with the amount of money you've been working for... And now suddenly there's a problem. The problem that Germany has, the problem that almost all highly developed countries have "How to create a pension system acceptable to the increasing life expectancy of people in Europe" Not only that, but also in the United States. It is acceptable enough, also economically, not to charge labour costs, but at the same time to ensure that these pensions are worthwhile. After all, according to these analyses, ladies and gentlemen, 2/3 of the people... If we maintain the principle of a defined contribution, we'll have to pay people a minimum pension. Because people can't pay... And it has nothing to do with whether they work 65 years or 67 years. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Oh, no.]] Yeah, yeah. Here these differences will really be very small. If you're a marshal... [[Then read it.]] But, Senator, believe me. I don't want to say here that I'm some giant economics expert, but if someone says that in 40 years he's going to have a pension of PLN 3,851, and so he would have PLN 2,452, 31, that's what we can do between fairy tales. Such calculations, with an accuracy of PLN 3.... You can talk about some estimates, some scale. But like Marshal Borusewicz... It's not, of course, an accusation against him. But I don't believe in this in a situation of such volatility in the macroeconomic environment, globalisation. After all, OFE was based on investments that were supposed to be... a way of investing... And all of a sudden it turns out there's a crash, and all these calculations, the calculations, how great it was supposed to be, they're in the head. How can we plan how many crises over 30 years, how many speculations, even on currency? So I question, of course, this calculation of the zloty of future pensions, because I think it's completely unrealistic. Nevertheless, it is no secret to anyone that if you work less, you have a lower pension and if you work longer, you have a higher pension. And here we should... So it must be in front of Poland, in front of this government, in front of the next government, the question of what the target pension system is supposed to be. Perhaps it should be citizens' pensions as in Canada. But after many years, these civic pensions, as I read, do not work that much. Now in Canada, this element is already being criticized. The Germans also say that they need to think about what the system is going to be. In a moment, the yearbooks of the post-war boom will retire throughout Europe, so the question is how the pension system will respond. And I think we're gonna have that, too. Because I can agree with some point proposals. Let's encourage people to retire, improve their health. But this is a very, very long discussion. However, this discussion and these solutions cannot be done as you have done: against people, without regard to anyone, by surprising people. Because as you've been able to listen, ladies and gentlemen, to the expectations of uniformed services and those who have started work... You didn't take them 15 years, you took only the new officers who entered the service. And here people missed a year, two or three years to retire, and suddenly somebody found out he was gonna have to work longer. It wasn't fair, it aroused a protest. And that's why I think it was one of those elements that made you lose the election because it really, as my meetings showed, was very, very dissatisfied with people. We have to keep our electoral promise today. And certainly the target pension system, its functioning and discussions on this system It's all ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. [[In the form of a corrigendum, I'd like to...]] Yes, I'm listening, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u290	Corrigendum to Senator Mr. Frost's statement. You had a very interesting speech, and I listened attentively to it. But this example, which you pointed out is unknown from where and probably is not true, is that a woman born in 1974 in the current system, when she retires, assuming that she will no longer work, would have a pension of PLN 3 000 904 and in this new system that you support, would have the same assumption of PLN 2 000 386, that would have a difference of PLN 1 thousand 518... Yeah, well... [[This is some kind of simulation.]] ...I referred to a source.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u291	Thank you very much. Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought I wouldn't have to speak anymore, because a lot of words were said and for the introduction of this law, and against it. However, the words that the election campaign is over, that what we promised in this campaign, now we no longer have to do, means frivolous treatment of us and Poles. What I promised in the election campaign, I promised not to promise, but to make it happen. My patients and people who come to me at the parliamentary and senator's office, where we receive them together with Mr Babalski, well know that if something is impossible, I do not promise them to do it. If there's any chance, I promise I'll try to solve the problem. However, treating us as senators and Poles in this way is not serious. I think that if we take Poles seriously, we should pass this bill and give them a chance to choose: those who want to retire at the age of 60 or 65 and those who do not want to do so will be able to work. Those who have the strength and desire to work longer, by all means... Their work will certainly be constructive. That is why I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Let's stop taking each other seriously.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Maciej Łuczak, Czesław Ryszka, Andrzej Kamiński and Jarosław Duda made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the item on the 20th agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 345 and the Commission's report in print No 345 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment took place in order to consider the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws, Senate printing No 345, Seym printing No 996, No 1012, No 1012 A. The Act deals with an amendment which will allow methane to be used in liquidated mining plants or their designated parts without the need to obtain a hydrocarbon concession. The Act also extends the duration of the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment of 16 February 2012 on the traffic plans of mining plants. The Act welcomes the ministers of the Minister of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, and the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek. The beginning of the committee meeting was quite turbulent because the opposition senators protested against a very short period of transition from the Sejm to the Senate. Indeed, we confirm, this is a short period. We can only apologize to the opposition for trying to do this in such a short time. But this was explained by Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, who said that in the absence of such amendments we lose about a million zlotys a month. It was accepted by the senators. Therefore, there was a vote in which one... I'm so sorry, not unanimously, I would have lied... [[We're following.]] Yes, thank you very much. Both Senator Komarnicki and Senator Augustyn abstained. I'm asking the High Senate to adopt a bill without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u295	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Waldemar Sługocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I would like to ask the senator because, as I understand, Minister Tobiszowski here explained it. I'm not a member of this committee, and I'm very interested in that. The result of this loss of PLN 1 million and why so... [[It's an oversight.]] No, no... What regulation, what record...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u297	Because there's no way to translate, yes, because there's no way... I'm sure the Minister would have explained it better. Because there's no possibility because of the organizational changes in the mines... If the mine is certified for the sale of methane, then after the organizational change it is missing... [[Oh, so he needs a new procedure...]] Yeah, he needs a new... That's how it's organized... The Minister will explain what it's like. [[I'll ask him again later.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u298	Good. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? I can't see. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, and Minister Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, Secretary of State, Chief Geologist of the country, Representative of the Government for Raw Politics of the State. Would Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski like to speak... [[Well, maybe he'll answer that question.]] Please, Minister, because there are questions for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u299	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In reply to Mr. Marshal on the issue of PLN 1 million, I would say that this concerns the procedure whereby we transfer from individual coal companies to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa (Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa) individual parts of the mines. Recently we passed the so-called SRK. part of Jas-Mos, where there is a concession for mining methane for the entire mine, and therefore part of the mine Or even the whole thing if it turned out that way. It is transferred to the SRK, which automatically expires the concession for the use of methane. In Hawk, the situation is that we have a company called Sej, which was purchased by PGNiG Termik, and it industrially uses methane. And so that there is no gap in the use of methane, so that there is continuity, which will cause the Company to receive from PGNiG Thermok about PLN 1 million for industrial use of methane, we enter that those parts of mines that move to SRK may continue to have concessions so that they do not have to run a special procedure to renew concessions. Thus the amendment, as well as the mode, is quite urgent, connected with the fact that every month makes it impossible for us to use methane industrially, and this involves the revenue of SRK and the fact that methane must then be released into the atmosphere. [[May I, Mrs. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u300	Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u301	Thank you very much. Then tell me, Minister. Because I understand that this process of obtaining, obtaining concessions is complex and administratively long-term, what the mine has to do to obtain the concession.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u302	The mine must apply for appropriate environmental opinions to the Ministry of Environment, inter alia, in order to obtain permission to use methane in this case, and it is... [[How long has this procedure been going on?]] This is where I'd feed on the environmental minister's knowledge... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Issue of concessions?]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Deputy Director of the Department of Geology and Geological Concessions in the Ministry of Environment Rafał Mishtal: It can be very different.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: I am able to answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u303	Maybe in a minute. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, do you have another question for the Minister? [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you.]] Do any of you have another question for Minister Tobiszowski? I can't see. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you very much.]] There you go, Minister Orion Jędrysek. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: For a moment... Is it working?]] How about here, Minister? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, a simple matter. After the concession has been filed, when the coal is no longer mined... Methane is an accompanying fossil if the coal is mined. If the coal is not mined, then the tender has to be announced and someone has to win it, therefore practically it takes at least a year. At least a year. It can't be done quickly. Or longer. And there was little yet to be said about the fact that the issue of methane threats also arises when a mining plant is being liquidated. There's nothing we can do right now. It's got to be demethane. [[For security reasons?]] Each and financial, and security, etc. It's just dramatic and urgent. Every day counts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u305	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Great. Thank you.]] Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am speaking because the bill that we are working on today is desirable and right in one part, and in the other part it is unexpected and surprising to me. The first part is to secure the possibility of developing methane. This raw material for which the concession was granted when it was mined in accordance with the concession held by the mine. In the current situation, when these mines are transferred to a restructuring company, it would be necessary, as the ministers have said, to apply for a separate concession for mining or for the management of methane. If this were not the case, as Minister Jędrysek rightly said, there is, on the one hand, a risk of financial losses and, on the other hand, a threat to the environment, because methane is a greenhouse gas and it harms the atmosphere. But in the second part, there were things that weren't in the original government assumption. I mean, this bill is largely prepared by the Sejm. This applies to changes in the bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm so sorry, Senator. Mr. Senator, please be quiet, because it's bothering you.]] ...of June 9th 2001 - Geological and mining law. It was somehow introduced, and it is actually not about mining at all, it concerns the structure and operation of the geological institute, on which there was a broad discussion in a situation where... But I don't think that the idea of creating... It was called state... What was it called, Minister? Please help me. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: State Geological Institute.]] Yes, the National Geological Institute. But you wanted to create this... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek:...Polish Geological Service. But it was a different bill.]] Oh, yeah. But that's what we've been talking about for a long time. And here, ladies and gentlemen, in this record that I would like to talk about right now, there's a lot about the State Geological Institute. That is, that the statute of the Institute is to be amended, that otherwise his advice will be invoked, who and how he will be employed, etc. The main point is that in my mind this is a change that only leads to changes in staff and with this right part of the first law has little to do with it. In addition, amendments to the Law on the amendment of the Geological Law of 11 July are correct, but the other parts I consider to be misplaced and they do not fit in with the Act. I'd also like to ask. I do not know if there is still a place for this, Marshal of the Minister, why it is in this law. I mean, the government didn't bring it up at all. Wasn't that a surprise? Maybe it was some kind of runway to lead to something that wasn't mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u307	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask the Minister later to maybe respond to the speeches. Now, please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u308	As regards the substantive assessment of methane mining issues, it is difficult to argue and the senator, Prof. Rotnicka, presented a position that I am very close to. But, ladies and gentlemen, we've been protesting against such a hasty man. I need to say a few words. This, in my opinion, is probably the fourth amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining. I asked at the committee meeting: well, for God's sake, didn't you know that methane was there? Was it not known that it was necessary to take care of this and the things that were subject to the next amendment? You can't work like that. And, of course, it is good that Minister Tobiszowski, who is a bit of a pusher, came to some sort of regret and assured that those who are guilty of negligence had the consequences, but really, ladies and gentlemen, it is so that if we continue to work at this rate, we will make further mistakes. It cannot be that from the adoption of the law in the Sejm to its examination by the Senate, it takes hours for the legislator to say that he had no chance to draw up his position, and the senators declare that they do not know the text. This demeans the dignity of this House, demeans the dignity of the senators. Because if we make mistakes, if we just report what's going to happen without a chance to make substantive corrections, then why are we here? It's in our mutual interest. Marshal Borusewicz in previous terms blocked it 'Cause then the government tried to do it, too. And unfortunately, we had to wait. Here, of course, there are certain circumstances that force us to act quickly, and that is the only reason why we abstained, because our opposition was actually an expression of opposition not to proceding, but to such treatment of senators, such treatment of the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, today, materials have been published on the unprecedented scale of nepotism that is spreading during the rule of law and justice. Hundreds of names of people related, friends, connected... I'm sure it wasn't meant to be. It was supposed to be the opposite. This speaker was protesting against it, so don't deny me that right and the ability to call things by name. It's even worse than when PSL did it, which you criticized so much that it allowed the hash platform itself and set up its people. But this has nothing to do with what's going on right now. And I'm afraid that these changes may be about putting some of my people back together again, otherwise I would have to acknowledge, Minister, that you are helpless and that you cannot bring order there otherwise, since, as you say, this order must be brought there. It seems to me that although the institute had some autonomy as a research institute, it is, however, because the text shows that permanent competition proceedings or could have been started any moment now, they could have been used to clean up, because I recall the statements of some senators who also pointed to various types of negligence, as the Minister actually said. Forgive me, but in this environment, in this situation, we are dealing with this with a lot of mistrust, and that is why we could not vote in favour of this submission, which is why we have just abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u309	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister... Minister, come here. [[Before that, you're a senator. After you, Minister?]] No, no. Mr. Senator, you want to take the floor in the discussion, right? [[Yeah, in a discussion.]] Minister, please sit down and wait a moment. Please, Senator. And then the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to take the floor in this discussion on the Law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. The reason is one. The coal mines in Silesia are currently being restructured and decisions made in relation to individual mines are decisions, I would say, sudden. It could not be predicted that Jas-Mos Coal Mine would be in the structures of the Company for Restructuring of the Mines in such a short time. And because the concession was granted for the extraction of coal and methane, this concession expired and methane could not be recovered as it was before. It is a good thing that the Ministry has taken such rapid steps and that methane can be used after the adoption of this law and after the President has signed it. Well, it's going to start a demethane station, and it's going to be industrially exploitable. The next mines that will be part of the SRK, because as far as I know, it's rather inevitable... Today it was decided by the general meeting of shareholders of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and to the Company for Restructuring of Mines that the mine was transferred to Krupiński. In the case of the Krupinski mine, it would be the same problem. If it were found in the Company for Restructuring of Mines and coal mining was abandoned there, the methane that is there and used there in an industrial way would not be obtained, and in order to grant a concession to carry out the concession to extract methane, it would have been at least six months, or more, because it is not such a simple matter. Methane, as we know, is also a greenhouse gas, and according to scientists, it is responsible for global warming, 22 times as if it amplifies the phenomenon in relation to what carbon dioxide does. And the fees associated with penalties for the release of methane into the atmosphere would be calculated and would be severe for coal companies, for the Treasury. I therefore support the fact that these actions have been carried out so quickly and so effectively that we can at the moment forget about this problem slowly and deal with the industrial exploitation of methane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u311	Thank you, Senator. Is there anyone else who would like to speak in the discussion? I don't see any volunteers. I'm gonna ask the Minister to respond to his statement... i.e. The answer to the questions, because the senator's mouth fell... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, I'd like to answer the questions here, perhaps in order. Professor, please, here's the answer. You asked me why these sudden changes were made. They actually... The bill was quickly removed. Members have already realized that certain actions simply cannot be carried out easily, because the State Geological Institute of the State Research Institute also serves as And it's legally defined, that's the puriazum that Senator Augustine told us about. The State Geological Service and the State Hydrological Service, in fact, is almost a state body, although it is legally incorporated in the Law on Research Units, i.e. it is responsible for the state. What are the elements involved? Well, he prepares an annual stock balance of fossils. In this balance sheet of the fossil stock there are big mistakes, because just as companies report to each other, etc., it has no measurements, there is no possibility to enter any area... A government official or e.g. an executive staff member may enter and measure. No, it's not there today. What else is important? In the mouth. 2 of the following Article: 8f is said to apply accordingly, so this applies to the operating fee, i.e. financial matters. This cannot be done by an individual who is not controlled by the government in any way, but the government is responsible for the state of finances. The situation is that there is a record of fossil resources; this should be kept. Financial decisions shall be issued on the basis of such elements. Unfortunately, they are still declarative, i.e. There's as much as the entrepreneur says there is. We want to be able to have any control at all. It's actually impossible today. And above all, the institute prepares a registration operation. This must be done by an individual that the government has any control over. What Mr. Senator said today I'm gonna go right back to that because it's connected. That we can't control this unit... But of course we can't, because I'm sorry, I have to tell you, the Civic Platform has led to the fact that... The law on research units until recently was so that the director could have been changed in principle. only if he committed a crime, in any other case. Even when the director was changing, only his deputy, the one he called, could be appointed as director. And when you fired the next one for some crime, it called the next vice principal until the directors were finished. And there was no way... There wasn't even an idea how to solve it. So you can say that, on the one hand, the scientific institute is a contractor of the State, because the State has assigned it certain tasks, but it can do them as it wishes, it is virtually impossible to settle. On the other hand, there is a situation where, when we want to demand something, we hear: no, we are an autonomous, scientific unit, we cannot be disturbed. Wait a minute. We want to be a State Geological Service, which is a tool of the state for implementing geological-surrogate policy, whether we want to be a scientific entity that is totally independent, but also needs to ensure that the money from grants is influenced, etc. In this case, there is no such situation. Money only affects... almost exclusively from operating fees. If that's the case, we want control of how they're spent. That is why this surprising situation has forced Members to make some changes. There cannot be such a situation that the State Geological Institute gives itself a statute, and it is the State Geological Service, which is almost a state body. He gives himself a statute, not a state, not a government... It needs to be changed, Professor. There's no other way. I myself am a scientist and I value scientific independence, but when it comes to the interests of the state, and it is of the utmost importance, we cannot afford the scientific council to decide everything. Please pay attention to this, there has been such a bizarre situation that the Scientific Council, whose chairman until September was the Professor, of course, will no longer mention the name which at the same time represented the company with foreign capital. Let's just say it doesn't matter, either, but it does. Which received most concessions for copper, silver and rare earth elements... He was the Chairman of the Scientific Council at the National Geological Institute. This is the National Geological Service. So he decided what the geologic service would do in the interests of the state. At the same time, this entity is in dispute, which is counted in billions, against the Treasury in connection with the granting and subsequent withdrawal of the concession. Well, not by picking up, but by referring to your government's review, Senator. Therefore, we cannot allow... We need to clean this situation up, we need to clear it up. Before that, this gentleman, who was the head of the Scientific Council, was the chairman of KGHM. He was also Secretary of State in the Ministry of the Treasury, Director of the State Geological Service and Head of the Geological Archive. I think it needs to be made clear: either you want to play a state role or you want to play a scientific role. These two situations, being a contractor and a contractor, acting without any responsibility and following their own interests, which sometimes have nothing to do with the interests of the state... You just have to make it clear what's what: we're here or here. Well, that kind of genderism is simply unacceptable. I think I answered all the questions. I get the feeling. If you don't, you're gonna have to reprimand me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u313	Thank you. Senator, I understand... In what mode? [[In the mode of completing my speech.]] Very briefly, please. Perhaps from the spot, Senator. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u314	Yeah, yeah, from the spot. Thank you. Minister, I am not questioning what you have said now because it was an extension of the information on why we are going in this direction. But it is wrongly seen and misunderstood if a law amending the geological law, as it were, enters into a law that concerns something completely different. This would be quite different if the part concerning the research unit, the problems that occur here, and why it does not work, was considered in a separate law. Then it would be pure and procedural. And that's the presumption that there's a hidden target here that we don't know about. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: Mrs Marshal, briefly...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u315	Good. Here's the short part, 'cause I want to close the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u316	Well, for the first time, we're going to have this situation that methane will be mined not as a accompanying fossil, without a concession. There must be record-keeping operations that the geological institute is doing. I think it's very connected. I think that's a thing that can't be called into question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u317	Thank you. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 346 and the committee report In print No 346 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u318	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, This Act implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 amending the Directive relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending the Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. The Commission was sitting calmly. During the session, there were some questions to the Minister, to which the Minister answered in substance and quite detail. As regards the changes proposed to the State to be accepted by the committee, these are related to the Act, which concerns the partial release of the gas market in Poland. The release of the gas market for households, which is most important for final customers, is in practice shifted to the beginning of 2024. This is the implementation of the directive. We are implementing this directive as the last country in the European Union. Its non-fulfilment would result in the possibility of imposing fines on Poland. The Commission has proposed to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u319	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Minister Andrzej Piotrowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask the Minister a question? [[No.]] No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[There's no one on the list.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 347 and the report of the Commission In print No 347 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to submit a report to the committee. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, to present to you a law amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws. This amendment is intended to create legal standards for the introduction of the design, IT CPiK 2.0, which will rebuild and modernise the central records of vehicles, drivers and parking cards. This amendment mainly concerns the date of entry into force of this law. That deadline was set for 1 June 2018. I would like to point out that the Senate Legislative Office has not made any comments on the bill. The Sejm adopted it unanimously, and the committee also adopted it unanimously. Therefore, I ask for this law to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u321	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Is anybody... [[Me. May I, Mrs. Marshal?]] Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u322	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. As this system is to be ready for 1 June 2018, please tell us why we are so quick to proceed. Why can't we proceed with this bill at the next Senate meeting? Because I understand that in the case of mines, methane, concessions, this complex technological process was justified. But where does this haste and such come from, not a different pace in the case of this law? Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u323	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u324	There's a minister of the janitor in the courtroom who was at the committee meeting, and he'll probably want to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u325	It'll be a minute, Minister. Okay? Now Senator Dowhan has a question for the rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u326	Yes, a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Does this change also apply, because that's how I read here... There are several points in the comparative material that relate, among others, to the reference material. stopping a speeding licence in a built-up area. Tell me, has the committee spoken on this matter? My point here is that this is a very controversial provision, which has so far deprived people of their speed in built-up areas, sometimes especially in areas built in small towns at night, the possibility of earning and maintaining families. Has this subject been addressed, like many other topics related to what the Civic Platform has established? And didn't you address this in the context of the revision of these provisions, or at least a change in such a direction, to either increase these speed forks or to disable, for example. Night hours?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u327	No, it wasn't the committee. I would like to confirm that there is a provision in these amendments that the old man may proceed with the detention of a driving licence even if the police physically do not have this driving licence obtained from the driver.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u328	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan still wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u329	So who can make a decision like that today to keep a driver's license? Can a police officer take the document today, or can't he?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u330	Maybe, but the driver can say, for example, that he doesn't have a driver's license, and then a policeman can't physically get that document. This will, in accordance with this project, be converted to old age and the governor will be able, using the central vehicle register, to indicate that this driver's license is lost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u331	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u332	...to the Minister, because I'm not gonna say yes here. There are some different cases, for example related to faulty measuring devices, which, after all, repeatedly... [[And such examples were, even with members of the Palikot Club.]] [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] The question is, is this the way a cop punishes and takes his driver's license right away, deprives the defender of his right to defend himself... What's he gonna do next? Get off your shoe?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u333	It doesn't deprive us of the right to defend ourselves, it's just... it's about situations like this when a busted driver claimed he didn't have a driver's license at the time of his arrest, and then a policeman was unable to physically enforce that document from a busted driver. It's like it's been ceded... Even if a policeman does not have a document in his hand, he is able to inform the old-timers who can take the proceedings about stopping this driver's license.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u334	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Mr Piotr Woźny, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization, is at the meeting today. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Piotr Woźny: I will answer the questions.]] You're welcome, sir. Please come to the podium, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u335	I will now answer these two questions that have been asked. The first question was why we are doing this now, since the implementation of this system is being moved, it is to start functioning on 4 June 2017. This is due to the fact that the date currently resulting from the legislation is 1 January 2017. This is a very unfortunate date, which has caused huge emotions on the part of the community of district governments, because all our analyses, our assessments, as regards the way this system is implemented, indicate that it is necessary to ensure that 3 The date of January 1 would therefore mean that these people should check in on December 27 to prepare for arrival from the CEPiK 1 system on the CepiK 2.0 on New Year's Eve. At the moment this date is January 1, 2017, but during this year... We inherited this system from... the 27 executive regulations that were issued, only 2 were issued. During this year, the Minister for Digitalization issued 25 implementing regulations and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction issued further implementing regulations. What do we have to do now? First of all, we must postpone the deadline for the introduction of this system before 1 January 2017, but at the same time we must carry out work related to the change of the date of entry into force of the implementing regulations that have already been issued. That is why we have asked Members and Senators for such a rapid pace of work on this project. Thank you so much for that. The case you were asking Senator Dowhan... The Senator rapporteur was talking about this project... Now, we're dealing with a situation that if somebody crossed 50 km in a built-up area... If he was detained for inspection and said he didn't have a driver's license, there was no reason for the old lady to bring proceedings against this person to keep his driver's license. And now, the basis for initiating proceedings on the retention of a driving licence will be merely information that there has been an infringement of traffic law and not that there has been a detention of such a delinquent's driving licence. Otherwise, anyone who would have been conscious if he had exceeded that speed by saying that he did not have a driver's license on him would have prevented him from carrying out a procedure enabling him to retain his driver's license. So that's an amendment... The lack of logic was noted. And what we are talking about here is the removal of a certain systemic defect and the fact that this law will be able to function and act. That's it. [[The senator is still reporting, Rafał Ambrozik.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u336	Thank you very much. As I understand it, there are still questions for the Minister. [[One.]] Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, does this delay involve additional costs? And who will eventually bear these costs?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u338	Mr. Senator, here's the situation... This system has been implemented since September 2013. This is an extremely complex IT project, which was implemented in quite, I would say, a specific and poorly organized way. We've got a situation here that... because what is the CEPiK system? These are two records: central vehicle records and central driver records. In fact, databases about all issued driving licences and vehicle databases that move on Polish roads. The contractor of the central base of this system was the Central Computer Science Centre, an entity which was under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior until the end of last year, and since 1 January 2016 is under the responsibility of the Minister of Digitalization. And the contractor of local databases, i.e. the vehicle IT system, the driver's IT system, as well as information systems for voivodship centres of road traffic, is the Polish Security Printing Works. Well, imagine for two and a half years of manufacturing this system... Because the central base is one subject, and the local base is another subject. And these entities did not have any agreement on the rules for the joint implementation of this IT project. Not until April this year... Despite the fact that these entities have been under the authority and supervision of the Minister of Home Affairs for over 2 years in 2013 and 2015. On April 20th this year, we repaired, step by step, all these problems in the project and led to an agreement between the Central Information Technology Centre and the Polish Securities Printing Works. Despite the fact that the Minister of the Treasury is currently supervising the PWPW, not the Minister of Digitalisation. And now, during this year, as I'm saying, we've done everything that wasn't done in this project before. We've issued legislative acts, implementing regulations... Because imagine, too, that this IT system was produced despite the fact that there was no stable legal status. Despite the lack of implementing regulations that define certain system requirements, the IT system was implemented. And in fact, in March and April of this year, when we started integration tests, that is, tests on how the central base communicates with the local base, well, it turns out that the number of amendments, the number of issues requiring refactoring the code that was created... This shows the scale of things and activities that are to be realized in this project. And we couldn't risk giving back the emergency, I mean. untested, untested system of district officials, because this system is used every day by thousands of people who come to district ancients to obtain driver's licenses or register cars. And now we, after a year, after these 8 or 9 months of review of the state of the project, after preparing all the detailed reports, after looking at how this project was implemented in relations with the Central Information Technology Centre, have reason to believe that a lot of elements in this project have been done faultyly by the Central Information Technology Center, which causes that... A Central Information Technology Centre concluded a flat-rate agreement in September 2013 in which it provided for a fixed remuneration. Because the deal was supposed to be in effect for 40 months. And there is a fixed remuneration for the implementation of this system. So that we are now signing And while waiting for parliamentary work, an annex to this agreement, in which we define how we will implement the corrective programme in relation to this project. A detailed timetable for the implementation of this IT project has been drawn up. Previously, there was no detailed timetable, only such very general phases were defined, such timetables which, I would say, did not allow for the capture of the retail activities that are to be carried out in the framework of this project. The costs of improving the quality of this software will be charged to a large part of the Central Computer Science Centre, which has accumulated unpaid profit from previous financial years. This will be one of the sources of funding for these corrective work. And the other one... We carried out, as I say, a very detailed inventory of the state of implementation of this project, as a result of which it turned out that some of the activities that were needed to implement this project were not regulated in the original agreement concluded in September 2013 between the Minister of Home Affairs and the Central Information Technology Centre. Some of the activities in this project, such as those not provided for in the previous scope of the agreement, will have to be regulated in this annex cleaning the same project. Some of them will be financed by a special-purpose fund. I think about 75%. the cost of repairing this situation will be covered by the unpaid profit of the Central Computer Science Centre, about 20 money from a state-owned special-purpose fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u339	Ask around, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u340	Yeah, I'll ask. And what is the approximate cost of implementing this system?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u341	Development work on the part of the Central Computer Science Centre: time 40 months; flat-rate monthly salary PLN 2.5 million. So this is about PLN 100 million for programming. And about PLN 40 million for IT infrastructure, which is needed to plant this IT system on new servers, new IT devices. So that the cost foreseen for today That's about PLN 145 million. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u342	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. From the answer you gave to your colleague, Senator Ambrozik, I understand that the sources of funding for improving the functioning of this system come from national resources. Was the construction of this system also financed by national funds? Wasn't this financed by European funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u344	No. It is not here that I say so, not a gram of European funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u345	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u346	Thank you very much. Minister, there is no doubt about this deadline and about what we are investigating. I'll ask what I asked the Senator rapporteur. Well, this 50-kilometer speeding license law is, as you know, very controversial and very many families have ruined their lives. It somehow improves safety, but I don't think there are any calculations like that. Well, I guess everyone in their right mind driving through a built-up area is trying to follow those rules. Do you think about changing these provisions in such a way as to ease them a little, correct them, or perhaps completely change them? I'm asking because this is the recipe that the Platform introduced, and I know that what the Platform introduced, you're destroying. Is this recipe gonna be trashed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u347	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u348	Mr. Senator, I'll say it like that. It is a pity that there is no representative of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction here, because this is a leading resort when it comes to discussing the issues you are talking about. We as the Ministry of Digitalization are responsible for the preparation and implementation of the IT system, which is intended to enable the CEPiK system to function. We've focused on these three amendments. In addition to shifting this term, the thing that is absolutely fundamental and very important to us... Just imagine that... it's hard for me to address this demolishing issue. All I can say is that in 2013 data entered into the CEPiK system was stopped dictionary. Imagine that there are no mandatory dictionaries in the CEPiK database at the moment. This causes that an official of the district old age who writes e.g. - Renault Megane, or Ford Mondeo... Knowing the Polish language and the way of transcription of such phrases, we can imagine that these words can be written into the system in 40 or 50 different ways. As of today, the CEPiK system is soiled daily with such data, resulting from the lack of mandatory dictionaries in this system. From 1 January, as part of this repair project, we will introduce mandatory dictionaries into this system, so that the official, when entering data, registering the car, will simply have to use the dictionary provided by the Institute of Automobile Transport, will not be able to transcript foreign-sounding phrases and phrases on his own. About... There is also what we have focused on in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, because it has been repeatedly pointed out that the governor could not exercise his competence under the Act on Driving Vehicles, because it was enough and only to say that there was no driver's license for him to have no way of initiating the procedure relating to the retention of a driving licence. So what we're doing... We're not going in, I'd say, in ideology or sense, in the ratio legis of this recipe. We're just fixing the recipe so that we can make the law seem to be able to be enforced. I say this with regard to the regulation that has been introduced. As for the idea of this regulation, etc., I would like to point out, however, that the rule applies to people who have exceeded by more than 50 km/h the speed in the built-up area. I think it's... Well, I understand that we can deal with a number of situations of some unreasonably use by the police of their powers, but it seems to me that regulations that concern people who are over 50 km/h of speed in a built-up area should not raise any doubt in the context that certain special restrictions should be applied to them. This is how I want to address this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u349	Mr. Senator Dowhan, come on. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u350	Well, it's very controversial, Minister, but... 'Cause you're... Point twenty-second is a revision of the vehicle management bill, so... because I'm a little bit... You represent the Ministry of Digitalization, right? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Digitalization Piotr Woźny: Yes, sir.]] Yeah, but we can talk about driving regulations. Right? Isn't that exactly what you're entitled to? Because I see a contradiction here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u351	No, of course I represent the government in today's trial. But, as I say, the amendment on this issue... Because all she's saying is that... as of today, the reason for an old man to exercise his authority to make a decision to retain his driver's license is that you have to make a physical stop on that driver's license. And this provision is corrected in such a way that the mere fact that the traffic law is infringed makes the old man have the power to initiate such proceedings and retain his driving licence. And only in this respect do we touch this provision. This is not a comprehensive reform of the vehicle management law. This amendment is made due to the delay in the date of entry into force... due to the date of implementation of the IT system and this particular issue was pointed out as impeding the application of the law by the elders. Thus, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction decided to add this amendment to the act deferring the entry into force of the IT system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u352	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u353	Thank you very much. I don't want to argue with my club buddy here polemically, but I think these 50-mile-an-hour speed restrictions are perfectly justified. And the loss of a driver's license is also, in my opinion, perfectly justified. But I would like to ask you another question, Minister, about the technical issue. Because the Minister is talking about the dictionary. Wouldn't it be easier if there was a menu in the program, a belt would grow...? And then it would be like, you know, we're choosing, for example. Renault Megane is one way of writing proposed by the system. And good-bye, good-bye, good-bye, good-bye. That would be the easiest thing to do, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u354	That's exactly how it's gonna work since January 1st. [[Well, that's great. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u355	This is... This is how the dictionary is understood here, I understand. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Piotr Woźny: Yes.]] Do any of you have any more questions? No. Minister, thank you very much. There was no obligation to reply in writing. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] I'm opening a discussion. Who's first? Oh, yes, please take the floor of Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u356	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! To date, the existing CEPiK system actually, apart from this basic problem of incorrect entries... I used to register a motorcycle called Triumph Thunderbird Sport, asked about what I was registering, that's what I said. And you started writing it. But when I got a printout about what I had registered, I grabbed my head. And if I hadn't asked for the right record, and if I hadn't started pressing that it had to be corrected, it would have just stayed that way. Therefore, this Central Vehicle and Driver Registration, a collection of such a name, the basic one we have, is of a kind, I will not hesitate to use that word, a dumpster. It's a certain past. The computers came into use, and some of the people who operated these programs were not familiar with them. They were workers who started working on typewriters. Therefore, it is natural that all this needs to be improved. The terrible thing is that it's taking so long, and the terrible thing is that to this day, these basic flaws haven't been removed. I'll tell you the details. Any attempt to act, e.g. in the passenger car market, the functioning of this sector of the economy is based on the figures on what we have and in what segment of this division of the economy is our nation. In the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers, there is a record that cars with an engine capacity of up to 2 liters are currently in Poland 19 million 414 thousand. From a statistical point of view, it would seem that we are, and indeed is, one of Europe's greatest powers. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is how we look at our local resource, it turns out that we are ahead of Germany, Great Britain, Spain and France. It all looks a lot worse when we look at data relating to how many of these cars have important technical studies. It's only $12 million now. As a result, we have a deficit of several million cars. How many of these cars have compulsory civil liability insurance? 13.6 million. Therefore, the question arises: where is 6.5 million cars? These cars just don't exist. They were stripped and sold in parts on different portals using the legal gaps that have so far been in our country. This was to the detriment of all those who tried to conduct such recycling activities legally, i.e. paying taxes. The average age of a car in Poland is 18.6 years. This is the middle age. This is due to the fact that most large fiats, mermaids, etc. have never been withdrawn from the register. Those vehicles are technically still in the register. It must be borne in mind that the work to be done in the Ministry of Digitalization is a de facto 19.5 million position review in the case of passenger vehicles with engine capacity of up to 2 litres. It is necessary to assess whether a given vehicle is a so-called vehicle. A dead soul, or is it really something that represents the potential of our national economy and which statistically puts us before Germany, Great Britain, Spain, France. This is why it is important and necessary that further development of our economy, the car market... Really, a lot of people work with cars. Further sustainable and responsible development will only be possible if the data is reliable. This system is not only used to register vehicles for, so to speak, the very specificity of this operation, i.e. for the statistical determination itself. It is primarily used to support the development of the market, because it is here that answers to questions about where our country is at the point of economic development. Therefore, even if we have additional months, with this chaos, what has it been represented so far, with this garbage collection, whose value is basically difficult to evaluate because how to evaluate such information? With that kind of approach... Let all this take even a year longer, but let the information that will be in this collection and which is used by economic operators be simply, humanly true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u357	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u358	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I'll be brief. I didn't want to speak, but I'll say that I'm also in favour of normalizing it all. My colleague, Senator Pekkis, rightly noted that this data does not correspond to reality at all. In this country, the absurds on one piece of evidence sometimes drive a few cars. This involves avoiding customs duties, excise duties, and punching numbers, actually, because, in fact, when a car doesn't pass through a control station, it drives on the basis of a document that had a previous car. And it was known. These data, which our colleague said here, are actually missing the truth. This term, if it's gonna take another year and a half, and these vehicles are really a lot... So in order to verify all of this, first of all, that a group of analysts put it in and that the system did the function it was created for, it really takes time. I, too, would like to take this opportunity to say that there's been a lot going on with cars lately, like excise duty. And here a colleague of the senator is very active, and so am I, even though I am not a member of the Infrastructure Committee, I am taking part in the work because for the previous four years I have tried to explain to our ministers the wrong system of excise duty and what it looks like when it comes to losses to the State Treasury. I hope that now it will somehow be able to middle up, and it will actually ease first and foremost the buyers, and it will generate additional revenue for the state budget. I don't want to discuss... We started talking about cases where a driver's license was taken or drivers refused to issue a driver's license. There were various reasons for this. First of all, work, because a driver's license for many, many people is also a work tool, which also involves maintaining a family, because those cases when a driver's license was taken along the border... It hurts especially when it's taken away at night. I myself witnessed several times when I saw a police patrol at 2:00 a.m. or at 3:00 a.m. at the exit from the city where there are no more residential buildings, there's a two-band... And there was a police car. I turned around, pulled up and asked them what they were watching. When you see the radar, you know they're hunting someone who's actually at 3:00 or 4:00 at night, they're gonna go over speed. And yet it's no threat, and losing a driver's license sometimes comes with problems... We've seen this on videos on web sites, where drivers sometimes kneel on their knees and weep so that they don't get their driver's license for exceeding 1 km/h... and this issue is worthy of consideration at the next committee meetings. I wish, Mr. Pekkis, we could get back to the subject, because I don't know if there's any sense in punishing so restrictively, for example. drivers who exceed speed in small towns, where these buildings sometimes do not exist, at night, when the danger to road traffic is really negligible. Of course, I would like everyone to drive by the book so that there are as few accidents as possible, but there are no studies on such details either. We know you can't drive after alcohol, and we know how many drunk drivers are in the streets. And we don't know what kind of laws we're gonna tighten up, and I don't think we're gonna actually affect people's consciousness. In some countries these rules are not as restrictive as we are, for example. In France and probably in Italy, the standards are 0.8, and there is no drunken driving madness. But it is, I think, a step into the future to discuss it, aside from emotion. Because it is known that there is no discussion about road traffic accident victims, there is no discussion if there is a tragedy that it is difficult to discuss here. But sometimes it is worth leaning over the fate of the only breadwinners of the family. And we know that when it comes to road transport, Poland is at the forefront of the countries in Europe, so sometimes it is worth considering the validity of decisions and such restrictive rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, if I may refer to your speech, I would like to say that perhaps we should go not so much in this direction, which you suggested, but in this direction, to verify whether the speed limits are properly or reasonably marked everywhere. As a driver, sometimes driving an empty two-lane, where there's a 60-km/h limit per hour, I wonder who I don't want to use epithets. That's what he's done. So maybe we need to go more in this direction. But I'm against it. If I can use my place to express my opinion To give in to the fact that if it's 51 km/h or 52 km/h or 53 km/h, we can still spare it. Here I would be more in favour of strict compliance, especially in built-up areas. But even in many places in Warsaw, when I drive an empty two-lane, where there's a 60 km/h limit... I repeat again. I think it is extremely foolish to introduce such restrictions in certain places. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. There are no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. The text of the Act is contained in print No 344 and the committee's report in print No 344 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee met yesterday to consider a draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. At the beginning of the meeting, the Senators of the Civic Platform expressed reservations that there was little time to read the text of the project. Therefore, Senator Gogacz ordered an hour's recess so that everyone could read the bill and read the comments of the Legislative Bureau. The meeting was then resumed and two proposals were presented for adoption of the Law without amendments and a motion for rejection of the Act. These proposals were put to the vote and a proposal was adopted by a majority to adopt the law without amendments. In view of this result of the vote, there was no discussion on the content of the Act and at the same time a minority request was made. I present to the High Senate a draft resolution on the adoption of the law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u361	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the minority of the committee, I would like to say first of all that we have proposed that discussion in the committee should be possible after at least a few hours to prepare for it. The committee meeting took place immediately after the Senate meeting, in which we were active, and yesterday we had no opportunity to read the materials. Yesterday, that is, the day on which this law was passed in the afternoon. We got an hour's break to look at the documents. It was not even possible to prepare the amendments accurately, but we have prepared these amendments. During the committee meeting, I made a request that a representative of the Legislative Office discuss each of his observations in turn. Some, or actually most of the comments, were accompanied by proposals for amendments that we wanted to take over and which we wanted to vote on. Unfortunately, this possibility was not given to us because a proposal for a law was made without amendments, which... there was no substantive discussion at the committee meeting. I stress: no substantive discussion. The Legislative Office limited its presentation to discuss the first point of the comments. Of course, there wasn't. This is the worst habit; we take this as a clear disregard for our House There was no symbol of a law-abiding state, a prosecutor of martial law, a highly deserved and awarded at that time with the Cross of Merit, Mr.Peterowicz, or any of the applicants' representatives. Of course, there were also no representatives of the Ministry. And before that, as we remember, in the context of the Tribal laws... Last year he was here, as we remember, Minister Ziobro. As a result, it was simply not possible to ask anyone questions or to enter into any substantive discussion. That's what it looked like. The motion to adopt the law without amendments was obviously voted out, and our motion to reject the law was rejected. A minority request was therefore made for the rejection of the law. And that's why I'm here. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is breaking all good rules. Not only the principles of legislation, but above all the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I am based here on opinions which have been submitted at the parliamentary stage by undisputed and supreme authorities: the Supreme Court and the National Council of Judicial Affairs, which upholds the independence and independence of the judiciary, including the Court, and which has always spoken in this case. She also spoke in it, very comprehensively, among others. National Council of Legal Counsels. A few examples, of course, which led us to make this minority request. First of all, certain provisions in this law, as pointed out in all opinions, are provisions that lose the sense and nature of the legal standard, the abstract standard. Abstract Standards The National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, these are the standards to be abstract, to refer to different laws, to different situations. Here we can clearly see that this law is being prepared for specific persons. It's obvious. Of course, there is no such wording here, but if we are talking about the fact that the recipe does not have the characteristics of an abstract standard, that is, a contrario, that it is under ... On page five, the Chairman of the National Judicial Council states: "The provisions thus formulated raise doubts as to their actual generality and abstractity, so that they can be considered direct. Although not by name, an indication of the persons to whom the legislator transmits the exercise of managerial powers at the Court of Justice. So, ladies and gentlemen, the bill was written under specific persons. The situation in which such an allegation is made is taking place ♪ As it seems ♪ It's the first time. I have not yet met, ladies and gentlemen, with such a charge, with the fact that the norm loses generality and abstractity. I will continue to give examples of rules that are completely crazy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the President, who... Of course, the constitutional principle is violated, which states that if the President of the Court cannot act as President of the Court, the constitutional body, the vice-president, is taken over. The President of the Court shall be moved in for a period of time. And what does it say, ladies and gentlemen? Well, that's a total kuriozum, that's all spoken of in all opinions. The chairman shall be the person with the shortest internship. [[No.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. It's in this bill. [[But the chairman of what?]] General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges, ladies and gentlemen. Well, there's a situation unknown in any organ. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it's as if, instead of a senior marshal, the chairman of the Chamber's deliberations was the youngest internship, etc. No, this is a situation that just doesn't fit in the head. How could you think of something like that? It is also said, ladies and gentlemen, about the criteria to be met by this person. The opinions make it clear that actually no one can fulfill them or only one person. That's pointing... There was talk of competitions being set, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what's in this bill? Under a certain person... And it's best to put in a specific name. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is like I said. It violates the basic principles referred to by the Supreme Court. The law in a democratic country cannot be seen by the legislator as a tool for achieving ideological, political objectives. After all, it has its own subjectivity, co-essential to the natural and inalienable dignity of man, according to art. 30 constitutions. Basics, foundations are broken in this bill. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, it is not known when this law is to enter into force, because it refers to a provision that says that the future law will indicate when this law... So it's a piece of the package. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's not how you make the law, absolutely not... I will, of course, then enlist in the discussion and present amendments. I have 42 amendments, which would actually require a whole new law. That is why we strongly support the proposal to reject this unlawful, unconstitutional and puriozal That's what I'd say. It's a bill. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[About the formal...]] [[Can I complete the report on the Senator's statement?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u363	Yes, please. [[I'd like to make a formal request.]] Formal conclusion. I'm listening. [[Then you're gonna be a blow to the ruling party.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u364	Mr. Marshal! We all remember a year ago, exactly at night from 23 to 24... [[December 24th.]] [[Voice from the room:...dirty.]] ...December, for a few hours we worked on our first attempt to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. We remember those benches were full. Remember? You remember Minister Ziebra, who was here... [[But I'm sorry...]] ...who spoke to us from here... [[...please file a formal application.]] I'll justify the motion. I want to justify the motion. [[No, no. I'm not asking for a reason, because it's not a speech, it's a formal request.]] But the motion may be illegible, so I want to justify it... [[No. We'll see if he's illegible.]] So... ... [[Do you have a formal motion?]] And we remember that, Mr. Marshal, also... [[Mr. Senator, do you have a formal motion?]] Of course. [[I'm listening.]] We also remember that every legislative act requires an opinion from the Legislative Office. There isn't one or the other today. This is an absolute scandal, and that's why I'm asking for... [[The speeches will be here any minute. Do you have a formal motion?]] That's why I'm bringing it in on the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (1) for the announcement of a break in our sitting until, first of all, to provide us with a printed opinion of the Legislative Office here, because we do not have an opinion of the Legislative Office, and secondly, of the arrival of a representative of the Government, either in the rank of minister or in the rank of Vice Minister of Justice. It's simply impossible to sit like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u365	I'm informing you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I'm informing the senator that your motion is unfounded because the information you've been asking for is on the website. [[Then what are shelves for? They're not on the bookshelves.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u366	Mr. Marshal, there's a connection in this formal motion. I mean, first of all, the point is that we get an opinion on paper, because not everyone reads documents on the Internet, not everyone uses the Internet, some of us brought... Not everyone uses the Internet, so there should be a paper variant... [[Exactly.]] And it's not either or, secondly, it's about coming to the courtroom of a representative of the Ministry of Justice in the rank of Minister or Vice Minister, as it was, Mr. Marshal, just a year ago. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u367	Is the motion against... or is there an objection? [[I would like to complete the report.]] [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] [[There it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u368	I object to Senator Klich's request. [[Then we vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u369	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[No, there was no request for a break.]] [[What was the point of the motion? What's the point?]] I assure you, senator, I don't need a motion to announce a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 07 to 19 minutes 16]] Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm sure there's a decision. If we follow the submarine...]] Please take your seats. [[There's nothing to count, we're winning.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Congratulations on your optimism. I'd like to address Senator Klich. There were two parts in your motion. One concerned materials And here I explained that they are on the website. The second concern was the adjournment of the session. Tell me, specifically, are you asking for a break until when? [[Until the minister comes.]] [[Mind if I take a moment, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u370	In connection with the provision of these materials, I request a recess until the arrival of a representative of the Ministry of Justice in the rank of minister or vice-minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u371	I see. And that is the conclusion I am voting on. The conclusion is as follows... Who among the senators is in favour of Senator Klich's request to announce a recess until a government representative arrives? Have I put it right, Senator? [[Yes, thank you very much. That's right.]] Who's in favour? Who's holding back? Who's against it? Please report the results. I declare that 26 senators voted in favour, two senators voted against, 24 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But silence, please. Since the formal proposal has not been voted because of the absence of a quorum, and the Senate's Rules of Procedure say that for the proposal to be adopted, there must be at least 51, in short, senators, we are proceeding with the bill until there is a quorum in the Chamber allowing the proposal to be re-voted. I'm basing my opinion on the Legal Bureau. If you'd like, I can read it. It's available on the website. Do you want me to read it? [[You're welcome.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[She's long.]] Opinion on the moment the Senate votes on the senator's formal motion. The subject of the opinion is whether the senator's formal proposal must be put to the vote immediately or not until there is a quorum. As a rule, the Senate shall adopt resolutions by simple majority, in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators; exceptions to this regulation shall be based on the Constitution, Acts or Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 2 The Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide that this rule shall also apply when voting on formal proposals. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 48 (1) (a) 2 of the Senate Rules of Procedure shall contain a catalogue of formal applications. The proposals can be distinguished by those whose aim is to influence the way the Senate sits, which would be changed as soon as the proposal has been passed. That's for example. requests for a break, closure of discussions and those relating to future items of the meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Although the provisions of the Senate Rules of Procedure do not render such a standard invalid, they can be interpreted as meaning that a formal proposal should, in principle, be put to the vote immediately. It indicates the wording of the Article. 48 (1) (a) 3... [[So we read with understanding.]] ...which provides that the adoption or rejection of a formal application shall be decided by the Senate after hearing the applicant and possibly one opponent of the application. It suggests, firstly, that the discussion on the formal proposal should be reduced to a minimum ♪ Listening to me ♪ only the applicant and one opponent of the application And secondly, that the Senate will decide immediately after hearing these speakers. The need for an immediate vote on the formal proposal is also indicated by Article. 48 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, among other things, formal proposals are voted outside the agenda, which I have also done. One of the factors that may justify the withdrawal from the immediate management of the vote on the formal proposal may be the conditions for the validity of the conventional act, which is the voting act. Since the Senate takes a decision in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators, voting without meeting the quorum does not mean that the proposal has been voted negative, but only that the Senate has not taken a decision on it. The conventional activity carried out without the condition of its validity, in this case the presence of at least half of the senators, shall be void. As long as the application is not withdrawn, the Senate is required to respond to this request. However, such a suspended proposal does not, pending a valid vote, affect the follow-up to the proceedings. If a quorum is found after the formal application has been submitted, the vote on the proposal should continue without delay, but only after the condition that at least half of the senators are present. In conclusion, the formal proposal should be put to the vote immediately, i.e. without undue delay, so as to bring the Senate's decision on the proposal as soon as possible. However, the vote on the proposal does not have to take place immediately after it has been notified, where it is apparent from the circumstances that the vote will not be valid. The role of the Marshal in the proceedings is to bring about an immediate adoption of an important . positive or negative A decision by the Senate by means of disciplinary measures available to it. Applying the proposal to an ineffective vote is not good for this purpose. Today, at the meeting of the Convention, we discussed how we can determine quorum. I'm going to quote Marshal Borusewicz, who said that we're saying this through a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm talking about what... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I quote Marshal Borusewicz. Please refrain from commenting on this subject. That's the way it used to be. We talked about the fact that it wasn't customary for any secretary to count the number of senators or to use cameras for that purpose. So I put the senator's motion to vote, and since we do not have a quorum, we are proceeding further, because, as you know, we are not required to proceed with a bill, and we are repeatedly prosecuting a number of senators in the presence of a small number of senators. Therefore, after taking into account the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, we will continue the deliberations. And as soon as there is a quorum, the motion will be put to the vote again. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Mind if I take a seat?]] Please. Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u372	Mr. Marshal, thank you, thank you, for this explanation, which answers the question of what to do when there is no quorum. But the formal conclusion was... That's what I'm talking about. And that's reasonable, and I think you're a very reasonable man, and even out of common sense. That how you can process the law in the absence of its authors. Who to ask questions, how to defend themselves, who to praise, who to blame? We don't have those statements here... [[I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but in this...]] And that's the essence of this conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u373	Mr. Senator, I understand, but we're at the stage of asking questions to the rapporteurs. Formal applications are a consequence of this. The formal conclusion was Senator Klich's request and I gave him the floor. Does the senator have a formal motion? [[Mr. Marshal, well, this is a quasi-formal issue, i.e. I'd like to say briefly, that I don't...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u374	Of course, I agree with the Legal Office's opinion, and I think it is right. Only in this case, where the formal proposal concerns the way in which the proceedings are conducted, and this is the rule of law, the deferral of this request leads to the unobjectability of identifying this proposal in the future, because the essence of this proposal is precisely to lead to such proceedings that they take place in the presence of the person whom you requested the presence of the senator. [[I'm sorry, but...]] And the moment we're dealing with... [[Mr. Senator...]] The point is that, in such a situation, the vote becomes pointless, i.e. de facto the proposal cannot actually be voted on. That's what this is all about... [[Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me...]] ...Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u375	I'm sorry. Now... [[That's the essence of the thing.]] ...we're not in the middle of a discussion. [[That's the essence of the thing, it's not a discussion.]] [[Either you agree with the interpretation or you don't.]] But silence, please. Mr Senator, a little outside the point where we are, I would like to explain to you that the proposal concerned a break rather than a way of conducting the proceedings. That's all after consulting the office... Do any of you have a formal application? [[Talking in the O.R.]] You were the first Senator Fedorovich to come forward. [[It wasn't a motion...]] [[I was the first, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sorry. [[Wait a minute.]] [[Mr. Marshal forgot because...]] [[Excuse me...]] Quiet, please. [[I'm not filing a formal application.]] [[I was the first.]] Then I'm sorry... [[I'm not gonna talk, okay?]] Mr. Senator... [[I'll submit.]] ...you're welcome. Do you have a formal motion? [[Of course, Mr. Marshal. I'm addressing Senator Zientarski. It is clear from your Marshal's interpretation that immediately.]] But I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen... [[You can break it into small pieces...]] Mr. Senator... [[...which means immediately, Mr. Senator...]] Sir... Excuse me... [[...and you'll agree with the marshal...]] Mr. Senator... [[...which made the interpretation clear enough for us.]] [[Mr. Marshal, once your own senator doesn't listen to you, there is no God.]] Mr. Senator... [[He can fold...]] Excuse me. [[Me in the form of correction.]] ...does any of you have a formal motion? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u376	Mr. Marshal, no, me in the form of correction. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because you referred to me and my interpretation... [[Lecture? In what field?]] ...at the convention meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, you've been calling in an inconclusive way. [[Very strict.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think... [[Quiet, please.]] ...really that a quorum is established by voting, and various ideas such as manual counting, going out the door You can do that, too. Do you count with a camera... It wasn't senate, and that's where you're right. But there's a formal motion for a quorum. It wasn't a formal motion, I understand, to establish a quorum, but to call the minister... [[The way you drive...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u377	No, no, I'm sorry... [[Yes?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sir... stop. It was a formal request for a break. [[Well, then you should have...]] No, no. Ladies and gentlemen, I specifically asked Senator Klich for clarification. I want him to be more specific about the motion. He specified a request for a recess. I announced immediately, after a few minutes of voting. I've given you an interpretation, and now we're back to the point where you're asking... [[I'm filing a formal motion...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[...in that case, if that wasn't the conclusion.]] I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u378	I'm filing a motion to call the minister to the Senate meeting... [[It was overruled.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal...]] ...and an ad until he gets here, take a break. [[It was overruled.]] It's specific. [[We just voted on the exact same motion.]] But you're still in session... [[But there's no quorum.]] ...and you should take a break and vote when there's a quorum, collect a quorum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u379	Just now, voting on the same proposal Maybe the order of words was different, we found that we did not have a quorum and that we are back to the meeting. Does the senator have a formal motion? [[Yes.]] I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u380	About the arrival of a minister... a representative of the government or a representative of the authors of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, this was a parliamentary request. [[Voice from the room: Project.]] The Minister is not obliged to participate in our deliberations if the proposal... if the project is a parliamentary project. And any conclusion is not a formal conclusion in this regard. There is no government position here, and therefore there is no reason why there is no need to be a representative of the government at this point. And that is not subject to interpretation or vote. We're back in session. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteurs. Are any of your senators... [[Mr. Marshal!]] ...want to ask such a question? [[Senator, you've checked in before.]] [[I asked for the floor to complete the report.]] Yes, Professor, Senator, I am so sorry. Your vote, sir. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Now I've given my vote to the Professor. [[In what mode?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u382	I complete my report in two points. Firstly, I would like to inform you that the information and documentation concerning this draft law was communicated electronically at 12.44 p.m. Our deliberations began about eight hours after this communication. Secondly, and this is actually my correction, not the addition of Senator Zientarski's statement. There was no discussion because, at the very beginning of the meeting, Senator Borowski put a question to the Senators of Law and Justice, whether they would submit a proposal for a law without amendments, and said that if they reported, he would file a motion to reject the law and that there would be no need for discussion. There was a motion to adopt the bill without amendments, Senator Borowski and Senator Rulewski, as I remember, filed a motion to reject the bill, a vote took place and there was no time for discussion. And the third thing that comes to mind, and it's important. Yes, it was not in the file and there is no document to this day entitled "The Legislative Office's Opinion," but there are comments from the Legislative, Multi-page Bureau, in which, as in every opinion, there are proposals for amendments. These proposals for amendments are 23. So everyone could see what the Legal Office's position on this matter was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u383	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Rybicki is the first to be registered. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u384	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the chairman of the committee, Senator Sewerinski. I would like to ask: did the senator who applied to vote on the draft without examining the amendments justify this request? Because it's amazing... [[Mr. Senator, I answer...]] ...but I'll finish the question if... [[...there was no justification...]] I'll finish the question, if you don't mind. Because it is amazing that the draft law, which at the Seym level... The Parliamentary Legislative Office has tabled 150 legislative amendments or rather legislative comments, the opinion of our law firm, the detailed comments of the Senate Legislative Office are also, I would say, very extensive... Have these opinions not been taken into account by the person who submitted this request to proceed without amendment to vote without amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u385	I don't know if they've been taken into account, because anyone who's read the case... When he read it, it means he noticed what it said. To the senator's question, I answer that neither the motion to adopt a law without amendments nor the motion to reject the law was justified by the authors of these proposals. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u386	The next question will be asked by President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u387	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask Senator Zientarski, as rapporteur for minorities, how it is, Mr Senator, that we have already amended the Constitutional Tribunal law three times, this is the fourth, as you have said, package approach, so far these laws have been partially or entirely repealed by the Constitutional Tribunal... Do you see any unconstitutionality in this bill that we're dealing with right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u388	There's a lot of non-constitutional rules, and I'm just pointing out... I refer to the opinion of the Supreme Court, where it is written this way: in conclusion, it must be stated that the proposed law contains solutions So there's not one solution. It is contrary to the Constitution to the extent set out in this opinion. This includes the question of non-compliance with constitutional conditions regarding the integrity and efficiency of the constitutional body, but not only.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u389	You'll ask Senator Zientarski another question. [[Me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, I don't ask myself.]] That's what it says. Senator Secretary gives me... [[No, I volunteered for...]] For what? [[It's for discussion.]] Oh, for discussion, I get it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yeah, yeah, for discussion.]] Then Mr. Senator Dowhan. [[Dowhan.]] Mr. Senator, what's going on? [[I have a text.]] We have a text, okay. Senator Zdrojewska. I hope she volunteered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u390	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur senators, Mr Marshal, I have a question, but it is a question about the intentions of the legislator. I wouldn't want to ask him to Senator Zientarski because he probably doesn't know them. [[Projectors.]] Projectors, yes. [[This project was submitted by Members of...]] [[But Peterovich isn't here.]] Let me finish. [[There you go.]] Nor do I want to take this question to Professor Senator Severinski because I was at the committee meeting yesterday and I know that the intentions of the projector were not discussed. [[I see.]] Tell me, Mr. Marshal has decided that there will be no break for whom I should ask this question. And once again, I ask you to reflect on the meaning of such a way of debating.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u391	I see. Senator, if you'll excuse me, I can't tell you who you're going to ask. Right now, we're at the point of questioning the rapporteurs. That's all I can say. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u392	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that wasn't really supposed to be a question, but in the end, a question will come to Senator Sewerinski. I've noticed that right now we're spittin' in our own nest and that we're losing this serious, in my opinion, Constitutional Chamber, which is the Senate. Disregarding us by Members or Vice-Ministers, etc., I think this is the top of everything, so please let us I'm saying this in the interest of all of us senators, because the public still thinks we're the worst parliamentarians... And now the question to Professor Sewerinski, the rapporteur. Professor, answer me, because I'm... well, it's not easy for me to get through those solutions you're putting together every day. What's it like... Because I heard Senator Ziientarski say that the chairman has the right or duty to be the youngest member of the jury. Is it possible that something like this could be included in the bill? Please, and by the way, public opinion. Okay, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u393	Mr. Senator, I'm not authorized to interpret the bill, but to report on the committee meeting. And we can talk about interpretations during the discussion. Everyone has the right to make their own interpretation. The interpretation is made at our request by the Legislative Office, which presents its comments, and this is a supporting material for us, according to which we can make a better or worse own opinion on this matter. I can't replace these people and our own judgment. Everyone has their own judgment. I read this bill, I read the Parliamentary debate, I read all the opinions, and I have my opinion on this law, I know how to vote. It's my duty to report on the committee meeting, what I've done, on the installment, but I've done it to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u394	Thank you very much. And I'm sorry to let you... Because, of course, I expected such an answer. The Professor is gracious to always give the same answers to my questions. Okay. In that case, please indicate to me where the law states that the youngest judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is to run for President. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u395	Mr. Chairman, if you'll just sit down, I'll group up the questions so I can drive more efficiently...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u396	But, Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to release me from this question, because I'm not a source of information about the bill. [[Of course.]] Each one of you has the right to read the law on materials available And find an article he's interested in. That's not my job.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u397	Of course. And every senator has a duty to read the rules. Now there are questions to the rapporteur about what happened at the committee meeting. [[Or maybe I should have misquoted...]] [[At the committee meeting, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Excuse me, Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u398	Okay, I withdraw that question. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] I'm gonna ask you to tell me the Senator rapporteur for the minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u399	Good. But sit down, Mr. Senator. We'll group up the questions and you'll answer them later. Thank you for asking Senator Fedorovich. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u400	Mr President of the Commission and, at the same time, Senator rapporteur, Professor, I must ask this question because, as a result of the negligence on the part of the authors, they were not present and were unable to respond to, as you have said, the comments of the legislative department. Therefore, I must ask you to give the High House, even in a short form, a comment on this project. And at the same time, I would like to remind you that the comments were actually received during the work of the Senate, so they could not be read. [[Voice from the room: They could.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u401	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u402	I have a question for both senators of the rapporteurs. Because I'm trying to find out what the committee's really been up to. If the right to apply for a law has been exercised without amendments to prevent any discussion, then we have been faced with an absolutely outrageous situation. [[What are you talking about?]] Unless that's what Senator Sewerinski says. But I'm asking Senator Zientarski. That it was some kind of quiet agreement between the two of you. I understood Senator Ziientarski's speech so that he emphasized that it was a terrible circumstance, not a kind of consent in this matter. In turn, Senator Severinski suggested otherwise in addition. What was it really like? [[Voice from the room: There was no one because...]] [[It's Borowski everything...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u403	Thank you very much. Are there any other... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u404	I would like to ask the rapporteur, but I don't know if I can ask you any questions... [[Voice from the room: You can.]] ...if you don't want to answer any questions. Answer me this question: what is the point of the solution concerning the designation of the head of the Court of Justice, which is included in this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u405	Thank you. Are there any more requests for questioning? Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u406	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Zientarski. Mr. Senator, you mentioned the Supreme Court's opinions, right? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the courtroom:...tribunal.]] I know, because that's what I talked to you about, that there are two opinions, and they're conflicting. What date is the Supreme Court's opinion you're using? [[It was one...]] Okay, Counselor. Answer me. And you were also talking about the unconstitutionality of this project. Please indicate where this particular project violates the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? [[And who said that?]] And who said that? That would be interesting too, Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u407	Thank you very much. [[That's enough.]] Are there any more calls? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u408	Senator Zientarski was talking about what he was talking about, among other things. You asked Senator Dobrzyński, but I wanted to know something like this. Were the opinions of the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council available to the senators during the sitting? Were the representatives of these institutions at the meeting? Were these representatives invited and arrived? Did they have the right to speak? These are questions for both senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u409	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u410	I have a question for a minority representative. I would ask you to explain which body, which institution in the Polish legal system has the right to assess the constitutionality of the bill... As long as it's not signed by the president, it's... Maybe not. It is a law not signed by the President, i.e. one for which the legislative cycle has not been completed. Second question... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We have to even.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Second question. Has the Constitutional Tribunal spoken about this law? [[What was the Court to say if he wasn't working?]] [[Because they're just lazy, they don't do anything.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u411	Thank you. Senator Florek. Allow me to ask Senator Flork a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u412	You can hear me, right? [[Yes.]] Thank you for your vote. I have a question for two rapporteurs. I'll quote the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2: From the date of the opening of the vacancy until the appointment of the President of the Court, the work of the Court shall be managed by the Judge of the Court who has the longest, counted in total, term of office: 1. as a judge at the Court; 2) as an applicant, as an assistant, a judge in a court of law; 3) in the central state administration. I have a question for you. How does that apply to art? Paragraph 194. 2nd Constitution, which states that: The President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal appoint the President of the Republic of Poland from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? If he doesn't have a CEO, then who's replacing him, because the constitution clearly says... Who's replacing him? So what's the definition of president and vice president? Because it's completely incomprehensible to me. So I'd like to ask you to explain if there's a compatibility of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 of the Law. 194 constitutions. Is there a correlation between these articles? And that's a question for both gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u413	Thank you very much. Please respond first to the rapporteur of the committee, Professor Sewerinski. [[There's no match because it's a tragic legal bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u414	I will return to a case that is not clear to Senator Augustine, and I thought I made myself clear. I wasn't suggesting anything, I just figured out what was going on with the meeting. At the very beginning or almost at the very beginning, Senator Borowski asked the Senators of Law and Justice whether they would apply for a law without amendments, because if they filed, he would file a motion to reject the bill and the whole discussion was unnecessary. The motion has been made. Both applications have been submitted. So I'm not suggesting anything, just a reference. That's one thing. Secondly, Senator Rulewski, who was present, I answer that he had the attention of the Legislative Bureau in the files or shelves and it was possible to get acquainted with them. I'm not going to refer to the Legislative Bureau because that's not my job. It is the same with regard to the content of the bill. [[Why?]] I already told you. Please do not ask me questions like: how is this possible, what does this mean, what is written in the recipe, how should this be interpreted? This is not the role of the rapporteur. Each of you has the right to read the bill and make your own opinions. The opinion of the Legislative Board helps to do so. And that's it. As for the matter that Senator Florek asked at the very end, let me only say that the fact that he is mentioned in the Constitution of the President and Vice-President does not yet answer the question of who is to direct the deliberations of the Court if there is no President. This is an interpretation issue. But I'm not getting into that interpretation because it's not my role. I can play this role during the discussion. I don't think there were any more questions. I answered all of them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u415	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur to answer the questions. [[I didn't get an answer.]] It's okay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, you have the right to ask questions, but you cannot expect such answers, not other answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u416	There were a lot of questions. The ones I remember, I'll answer. What was the committee's meeting like? In fact, Senator Sewerinski introduced... Only earlier was my proposal, so that after each particular point, and there were 23 of them, after each remark, which ended with the proposal of an amendment, allow the statement 'Cause there were some variations. Or any of the senators sustain such an amendment, possibly in what version. And then the vote. That was my conclusion. After my request, there was indeed a motion from Senator Borowski, who said that he was conditional on a motion for rejection. Except he didn't talk, he didn't suggest that this request was filed immediately. In fact, he asked if such a request would be made. [[He was provoking, provoking.]] Maybe, yeah, but he's not our clubman. Besides, it doesn't matter. We didn't consult with Senator Marshal Borowski. And the situation is that these proposals have been voted out and there has indeed been no discussion. And there was no discussion, because those proposals were further moving, and therefore my proposal was no longer the subject of a vote. That's what it looked like. I could answer Senator Dobrzyński similarly, in line with what Mr Seweryński said, because, like the rapporteur of the majority, the rapporteur of the minority is not from the fact that Yes, I hear something that wasn't the subject of a committee meeting. [[Answer me.]] I don't have a responsibility to do that, but... [[Good. That's enough for me, Mr. Marshal.]] ...I think there was such a good habit in this House that the rapporteur, both the majority and the minority, did not answer questions about the circumstances of the committee itself, but always answered... he was also the rapporteur on the bill, and not just the rapporteur... [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Counselor, I'm sorry. I understand that your statement regarding...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm just explaining to you the full consequence. That's... [[Calm down, please.]] ...that this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations. It wasn't. But I, as, uh, I, on the basis of the minority's motion, have made my case. And what I'm trying to say is that one of them was and is... [[Cell phone signal]] [[I'm sorry. I'm asking you to mute your cell phones.]] One is the Supreme Court's opinion on this matter. There were no contradictions or contradictions. That's not good enough. I would say that both the opinion of the National Judicial Council and the opinion of the Supreme Court, as well as the opinion of legal advisers, are compatible. On the other hand... [[Are they crushing or not?]] Totally, totally crushing. That's what I said. And I'm just going to give you a few examples that I didn't talk about when I first spoke when I spoke as a representative of a minority proposal. Namely art. 11, which is very controversial, is incompatible in its entirety with Article. 173 of the Constitution, in the light of which the Court is a separate and independent authority from other authorities. The projector, replacing the General Assembly of the Court, clarifies the details, the rules of operation of this assembly for the presentation of candidates to the President. Next: Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th project is also contrary to the preamble, namely the principle of reliability, the efficiency of public institutions. That's what I was talking about. Further: Qualified to become President of this opinion... So it's about those people who didn't work either in the general court or in the central administration because they might be. But they worked in an administrative court or a high school... This exclusion is discriminatory, says the Supreme Court. - and violates the principle of equality with Article. 32 constitutions. There's also... This clearly lists all opinions, indicating that this regulation is incompatible with the principle of the division of the authorities. The 10th Constitution with the principle of independence of the judiciary and the principle of democratic rule of law. And all these are the principles of the first part, the general part, the foundations of our constitution, the constitution of the Third Republic.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u417	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next round of questions. You'll be the first to ask Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u418	I would like to ask Senator Sewerinski a question because he did not answer my question as to whether the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council were familiar with the opinions of the Supreme Court. You did not respond as president, whether the representatives of these institutions were invited and whether the answers had come from them, or whether any of the guests had been and could have taken the floor on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u419	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u420	Thank you very much. I have a question for the rapporteur of the minority proposal... [[Senator.]] Senator, yes. I'd like to ask, Mr. Senator. and please in case of What's to improve me? If the committee was sitting yesterday without the applicant's presence. Were the documents delivered to the committee meeting just before this meeting? And wasn't there a legislator's opinion? Is that so? I'd like to ask you to answer that question. And I would like to ask you how many times in your Senate practice you've had this kind of procedure in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u421	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u422	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Since the rapporteur, Prof. Seweryński, to put it this way, gave us a delegation to read for ourselves... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and I'm not an educated lawyer, in this situation I'm going to ask your minority rapporteur to help me resolve some of the doubts I'd like to share. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the draft is a provision that the General Assembly shall constitute the President-in-Office of the Court. And that's clear to me. However, the question arises, Mr. Senator, which means the statement of the magistrates. For I understand it this way: are the Members of the Law and Justice finally admitting that Mr Roman Hauser, Mr Krzysztof Ślebzak and Mr Andrzej Jakubecki are judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and President Andrzej Duda has unlawfully refused to take their vows? Since you indicate in the provision of the Act that there is a category of judges-in-Office, it must also be a category of non-mandatory judges, i.e. those who cannot rule because they have not been taken away from the oath. Do I understand this record correctly? And second question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The General Assembly, which is to elect candidates as President of the Court, is expected to be chaired by the Court's youngest judge. The previous arrangements provided that the General Assembly's deliberations on the selection of candidates for the position of President or Vice-President of the Court were chaired by the oldest Judge of the Court participating in the General Assembly. This solution was fully clear and understandable to me. The idea was for the president, as the oldest person, to enjoy authority. I get it. And you're proposing I don't speak to Senator Zientarski by name. In order for the President of the election meeting of candidates to be the youngest Judge of the Court. Explain to me or help me understand where this is coming from. [[There's no explanation for that.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: You're right.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But, gentlemen of the Senators, I'd like to finish. [[Excuse me, Senator.]] Why are you changing the records in this matter? And my last question. I don't understand why all internal organizational units are being eliminated. Because I understand what's going on until then, these games are a little bit understandable to me, but I don't understand why we're taking out all the internal agencies of the Court, and they say very well. I'm saying, 'cause I didn't work there. A functioning office of the Court. This liquidation is not intended to improve the quality of the Court's operation, to speed up procedures. Why would you think that? If you, Senator Zientarski, as a dry lawyer, would help me understand this, please. [[Voice from the room: I have a question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u423	Thank you very much. I must point out that Mr. Senator has gone through a lot of time, but I was tolerant. [[Then I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, this rarely happens to me. And thank you.]] Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[That's too many questions.]] It was a question... [[No, that's only the third one.]] [[Four.]] ...to the Senator of the rapporteur, Senator Sewerinski, but because I know the answer, I will ask for this reply from Senator Ziientarski, who is a long-standing senator, parliamentarians and a man of law. How is it, how is it possible that in the sitting room observed by Poles, if they want to turn on the Internet, was discussed, a law was introduced, which received crushing opinions from the highest judicial and legal authorities of the Polish state? How is that possible?! [[That's so expressive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u425	Senator, don't raise your voice. [[It's not me. It's my emotions.]] [[Isn't that the same thing?]] I see. I'm asking your emotions not to raise your voice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Voice from the hall: Quite a calm man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u426	Me? Yes. Mr. Marshal, I have a problem because you, the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur, at the same time, refuse to tell the High House, including me, about matters which were interrupted during the meeting... The President's comments from the legislative department were interrupted. I have a question as to whether Professor Seweryński will change his mind and present to us the main vector of the comments of the legislative department. And I have a very substantive question for the senator of the minority proposal. In view of the recent situation, namely the plague that prevailed among the three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... Does the Act provide for the functioning of the Court, including the election of the President, in the event of an even greater plague? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u427	Thank you. And last in this tour, Mr. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u428	I asked the senators Zientarski and Sewerinski a question. Mr. Sewerinski answered my question, but Senator Zientarski didn't answer. However, I would like to give up this question after Senator Sewerinski said that you can only say what was at the committee meeting. I meant to clarify the non-compliance of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 Paragraph 194. 2 constitutions. I would like to ask the initiators of this bill or perhaps the minister's representative. I'm gonna ask them, ask them to explain it to me. As I understand it, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, so that I would drop this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u429	Thank you very much. Professor Sewerinski will be the first to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u430	There were two specific questions. Who was invited? The rapporteur was invited It wasn't present. The Ministry's representative, the Minister of Justice, was invited, but also was not present. The authors of the opinion of the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the National Council of Legal Counsels were not invited because there is no such custom. They sent opinions. The opinions were and everyone could get acquainted with them, as with the entire text of the bill. The opinions of these three bodies that I mentioned were indeed critical. Senator Zientarski has already spoken of this. He did not just say that at the stage of the Seym proceedings there were also opinions of 3 experts. I have quite thoroughly reviewed these opinions, and most importantly, the conclusions which these 3 opinions contain, and I have noted that, with the exception of maybe one wording indirectly referring to the Constitution, none of them raises an objection to the unconstitutionality of this draft law. Senator Rulewski, who may have read the comments of the Legislative Bureau... Incidentally, for me, these comments are in no way different from the opinion. They have a title other than the opinion, a title more modest, but inside is the same as in any opinion, namely the analysis of the laws and proposals for amendments, twenty-six. Senator Rulewski embarrassed me. I can of course quote you, tell you what is there in these amendments, but since these are very detailed proposals and in the vast majority of editorial and legislative amendments, these are editorial amendments... If I had read the same proposed amendments, reported what 23 proposals were, then you would probably have had difficulty understanding, so I would have to read everything from start to finish, the whole document. If the marshal authorizes me to do this, I'll start reading it, go ahead. [[Please.]] [[There's no point, that's the point.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I don't think there's any point, Professor.]] I'll ask your marshal, because it's not... [[There's no obligation.]] [[I don't see the point, Professor.]] I think so, too. I might as well read you the entire bill, because maybe not everyone read it. But if the marshal thinks it's my duty, I'll read it because I have a line here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u431	There's no need for that. Thank you very much, Professor. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u432	Senator Zdrojewska's question has already been answered. Mrs. Senator, there was indeed none of those two basic organs that were invited. We've been investigating this case, and we've been asking during the committee meeting who was invited. Mr Piotrowicz was invited and the Minister of Justice was invited. No one showed up, not even any of the Undersecretaries of State. This is a complete disregard for the Senate today still... That's how I feel about it. I do not recall, as a longtime, for seven years, the head of the Legislative Commission, that such situations have occurred before. These are, in my opinion, unprecedented situations. You were a senator... prepared... I admire our Legislative Office, the expertise and diligence of the Legislative Bureau and I bow to... [[applause]] ...I bow my forehead. The office was prepped. I don't know how, but it's already been prepared. Counsel started, as I said before, commenting on her remarks, but she ended up with the first one. I have tabled a proposal so that the amendment can be maintained and voted at once. And there were conclusions going on... [[We've heard that before.]] Well, that's what we heard. That's why I'm so short now. So that the opinion was, and she is. It was presented in writing at a meeting of the Legislative Commission and anyone could have heard this opinion. But the truth is, it was only for this hour between the end of the session and the beginning of the substantive... after our motion was made, that there was time to read the bill and to get a preliminary look at this opinion. Because it is difficult to say that the time when the Senate was sitting and when very important issues were actually discussed, was sometimes to prepare. The idea of regulations is completely different. As for the answers to the senator's questions... [[Komarnicki.]] ...Władysław Komarnicki... Mr Senator, one opinion points out that the Constitution does not provide for It's also another one of the allegations of unconstitutionality. Two categories of judges: the Judges-in-Office and the Judges-in-Office. The Constitution speaks of judges elected by the Sejm, who become judges elected by the Sejm. And that's it. And their term of office starts from the moment... Besides, these first three judges were elected earlier, from their previous term of office, and these others were elected without establishing the beginning of their term of office. The Seym couldn't even figure it out, because they were busy. Even the Sejm has come to the conclusion that they are indeed judges, but their term of office has simply not begun. Therefore, the construction is adopted, it is invented that the term of office will continue from the moment the President swears in. Well, of course, it's completely against the constitution. This was mentioned earlier, but I will remind the President of his prerogative to de facto prevent the judge from exercising a judicial mandate. This is the kind of prerogative that the president doesn't have to refuse or hold a judge by not taking his oath. Under the Constitution, the President has no such prerogative. That is also what the Court was talking about. The questions were whether the Court had already assessed this law. The Court, Senator, evaluates the laws rather after they have been passed, rather than before. Therefore, of course, he could not judge her. The Court gives its judgment, the Court finds that it is non-constitutional and properly eliminates the rule from the legal order automatically and definitively. Every body, every senator, I would say that every citizen has the right to judge the law, in particular the constitutionalists and those who enjoy the highest legal authority, namely the National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court. They point to unconstitutionality. Of course there's no effect, because the effect is due to the ruling... [[Then why...]] For a long time, for many, many years, it has been said that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are predictable because there is a certain kind of legal line. This case-law line of the Court has already been presented in some respects. And she's clear, she's predictable. That's the advantage. The Court considers that certain judgments are predictable. Senator Komarnicki's question about the article. 11. Indeed... In one of these legal opinions, it was pointed out that these qualifications could be replicated or... They are, as I said before, simply unfair to certain categories of people, e.g. scientists. This discrimination is emphasized here. The meeting shall be chaired by the Court's youngest judge. That's what I was talking about. It is not a question of interpretation, as it was said here earlier, because it does not require interpretation. This is unambiguous, this language interpretation is unambiguous It is not possible to apply any other interpretation. It's clear, it's just a concept. An irrational concept, of course, as Senator Fedorowicz mentioned here, is actually inexplicable. These opinions speak of lack of reasonableness in many cases, very gently speaking. This is a classic example of this obvious lack of rationality. The interference in the Court's office, which works... This has also been noticed in these opinions. There's no law against this kind of interference. The Supreme Court says that it is a complete misunderstanding that the applicant refers to an analogy, that in the Supreme Court... It doesn't stop at all, and it's a complete misunderstanding. I think that's it for the answers to the questions. [[And my question?]] Oh, there was another question about the disease. [[I'll ask you one more question.]] Exactly. The legislator's earlier... This is emphasized. For 20 years, it's always been nine people. It was the quorum of the general assembly, because the judges could get sick. The situation here is special. When an obstruction is expected, three judges suddenly get sick. The public makes a clear assessment of these diseases. I'm not gonna be here anymore... the fact that the virus is touching those judges in the constitutional court... It's just mocking the public. That's how I feel about it. Ladies and gentlemen, many of us... I, too, have been ill many times. We used to come to meetings in these situations, sometimes with the flu... [[Mr. Senator, there was a vote and there was such a disease here that it didn't work...]] What kind of disease? [[It's that you didn't vote.]] Has anyone hidden themselves from sickness and medical discharge, Senator? I've never heard of it. [[It's a strange amnesia.]] No, no. No one was hiding behind the disease. [[The judges are flawless in their...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u433	Calm down, please. [[I just want to remind you...]] Calm down, Mr. Senator. I didn't give you the floor. [[I'd ask you to remind me of the question, because if I didn't answer...]] The senator asks me to remind you of the question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u434	Of course I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal. Please answer yes or no. The question was very simple. Has it ever happened in your career that the law on the highest legal authority in Poland, the Constitutional Tribunal... [[The senator answered that question.]] ...she showed up in the Senate room? This isn't about pieces of legislation and paper, it's about information for the public. Can we even work like this? Is this responsible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u435	I wasn't just talking about this bill. [[A moment ago, the senator replied. You have to listen. The senator was talking about it.]] The Supreme Court's opinion, the National Judicial Council, states that it should be based not only on the opinions of the team of experts appointed by Marshal Kuchciński, but also on other scientific publications. It's in the opinion. My conclusion is this: I've been talking about this a long time. That it is a total disregard for legal authorities. It's just that. [[It's merely disrespectful.]] Of course, it's disrespectful.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u436	Thank you very much, Senator. We're starting another round of questions. Are there any reports? Yes. You're welcome, Senator Mammoth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u437	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you something, Senator Ziientarski. In your previous term of office, you were the head of the Legislative Commission. I suspect you know the rules very well. Tell me, do you have any objections to the course of the last committee meeting on which the item we are now discussing was discussed? Do you have any legal objections to this committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u438	You're welcome, Senator. [[Already?]] No, no. There's a whole round of questions. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] The Senators of the PiS want to extend... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u439	Questions for Senator Zientarski. Was there a discussion at the committee's meeting on the correctness of the selection of 3 previously elected judges and the failure to select 3 more? That's the first question. [[There was no applicant at the committee meeting.]] Second question. Does the Constitutional Tribunal give, as you said, judgments or judgments? And the third question. Were the two gentlemen at the same committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u440	You're welcome, Senator Lychek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you pointed out by Senator Fedorovich, who among Poles wants to follow our deliberations. And most of them are watching and watching this show, this disgusting spectacle, this embarrassment. [[What kind of embarrassment?]] And we are actually discussing in this room, debating in isolation from the ordinary Polish people. I had a meeting three days ago... [[But wait a minute...]] But don't bother, at least let's have so much culture. Don't disturb me. [[I'm not interrupting. I'm not interrupting.]] [[Calm down, please. Please allow the senator to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.]] And ordinary Poles are watching this embarrassing spectacle, which we have just seen. The advice of ordinary Poles was simple. In order to finally solve the Court's problem, a simple Turkish system must be applied... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...and give to all those who... [[Finally!]] [[Applause]] ...they deserve such a reward... Then it can be solved very quickly. [[Somebody finally said it.]] [[Look, let's get this on the record.]] And I have a question, because Poles also expect this answer, to Professor Sewerinski, who is an undisputed authority. In your opinion... If you can tell me this is my heartfelt request: what are your predictions when this dispute is finally over? Thank you. [[This isn't a dispute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u442	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Please, first, Professor Sewerinski... [[I volunteered, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, well, excuse me, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u443	As we had no opportunity to read the amendments tabled at the meeting, I would ask Senator Sewerinski to present them so that we could prepare for the discussion. [[It's already been done.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u444	The senator has already answered that question. Are there any more calls? [[The senator was willing to read them, so I'm asking.]] The senator asked him if there was any point, and he thought there was no point. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u445	Actually, one question was addressed to me. Senator Łyczak. I must disappoint you, Senator. I'm not editing well, and I'm not doing well, so I never take any chances. I'm doing private use, and I'm doing it quietly. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u446	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u447	To answer Senator Mamytkow's question, I have already said that we asked whether these guests were invited to the basics with which they could talk substantively, i.e. the applicant and the ministry. And they weren't there. One might wonder, and this is also the proposal that we have made, whether to hold a sitting in this situation at all. In this sense, one might wonder whether this is the rule of law, because since there are no representatives of the applicant at the committee meeting, no one, whether it is possible to hold a sitting. You may have serious regulatory doubts about this. But as for the further working procedure I had absolutely no objections, because the formal proposals had been submitted, they had to be voted out and that is clear. [[That's what I wanted to hear.]] In reply to Senator Orzechowska, I would like to say that these issues were not the subject of a committee meeting at all. But I'm gonna answer your question about what a judgment is. Judgments and judgments are judgments. So the constitutional court gives its judgments and gives its orders, i.e. it gives its judgments. [[One more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u448	Thank you very much. [[There was no talking about it.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for a minority representative. There are still suggestions here, at least I feel this way, that the committee meeting, which you also report, had some formal flaws. Therefore, present in a concrete, effective and formal manner... [[I already told you.]] [[Has he told you yet?]] No, I'd like to hear it again. Were there any violations of the Senate Rules of Procedure? I'm talking about quoting a specific point that's been violated, and the fact that it's a violation of cultivation. If so, please describe it, and if not, please do not suggest here that something was wrong because you had a different opinion on it. Anyone can have the opinion they want. It is a formal statement as to whether you believe such violations were.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u450	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[But that wasn't at the committee meeting.]] That wasn't a question. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u451	Well, if you can ask that kind of question, then I'd like to ask you how it's possible... [[You don't have to answer that question.]] Senator Zientarski. How it is possible to do so in the case of various key laws, including the Constitutional Tribunal law, if each time Almost, if I remember these six correctly... we've already had the seventh law... we're treating this case of entering the Senate in an emergency mode as exceptional? I know that the rules provide for something like the introduction of something in exceptional mode, but it can't be that the exception is the rule. I'd like to ask Senator Ziientarski to refer to this as the first envoy to sit in... [[Senator.]] Excuse me... For the first time in the Senate, I would like to ask you as an experienced senator whether it can be an exception rule and rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u452	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: No.]] I can't see. You're welcome. I don't think there were any questions for you, Professor Sewerinski. This is Senator Zientarski, please. [[The professor didn't answer my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u453	I repeat that there is a consecrated Uzusu in our House, that there is always a representative of the applicants at the committee meeting, and if there is no... As a rule, there is also a representative of the applicants and a minister. If there's no representative of the applicants, there's always a minister. You can trace the entire history of our committee's work. And here's the situation: as we recall, at first, last year, there were representatives, but for some time now they think there's no need, they just ignore... [[It's a shame to admit it.]] ...Ignore the Senate, and that's how we judge it. Of course, I answer Senator Zdrojewska's question. This is an unprecedented situation at all, because the creation of one law in six or seven parts... [[It's eight, eight.]] And yet in this bill, as I was saying, it's written in the proper recipe that you don't know when she's coming in, and it's addicted to the next law... [[...which isn't here yet.]] ...and certain standards are not only undesigned, but they lose the nature of legal standards, because they lose their characteristics of abstractity, this is a situation really unprecedented, completely. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u454	Really? No, because I thought we'd be done by Friday... Good. You're Professor Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u455	It seems to me that the question is important, because some thesis repeated over and over again in my opinion have the characteristics of illogicalness, which I will try to briefly formulate in the question to the rapporteur of minorities. Well, the senator has repeatedly, in his report, raised the absence of a representative of the government at a committee meeting. There was either such a conclusion or, let's say, an opinion on the Senate meeting. However, a certain logic is an immanent feature of the law. I understand that logic dictates the presence of a government representative because the law most often concerns the interest of this government, a particular department or government as such. But... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, but the Constitutional Court is... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Calm down, please!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please!]] That is why I ask the rapporteur, I ask him to explain this briefly. Mr. Marshal also points out that it's late.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u456	Thank you. I'm sure it won't be long. [[You'll explain in your break.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u457	I am very brief, but Senator Zientarski has not answered my third question. I asked if you were in the same committee. Because Professor Seweryński spoke very briefly, and you speak for a very long time. I understand that everything you said was the subject of a committee meeting. Yes? [[I justify why we're against...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u458	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[Voice from the room: End, end.]] I'd be done by now, Senator, but our senators are asking questions. You're welcome, Senator. [[Voice from the room: They woke up.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u459	So I answer Senator Wind's question. This is due to many opinions, among others. the National Judicial Council, which upholds the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Undoubtedly, the Court's rulings are an integral part of the legal system, i.e. the case law of the courts, the universal courts, as well, because the duality of the law that we have heard about, concerning the validity of the judgments of the Court of Justice, I am no longer talking about the legal questions of the ordinary courts before the Court of Justice. It affects the case law of the courts, the Supreme Court, and the universal courts. Therefore, the uniformity of case law and the care of the level of case law is not a question Only the Supreme Court, but also the Ministry of Justice. Earlier, of course, the Minister of Justice always participated... Especially since the opinion of the National Judicial Council, I remind you, is also an opinion... I mean, there's also a Minister of Justice in the National Courthouse Council. Minister for Justice From what I know. Of course he didn't have the same opinion as most, I suspect. That's all the more reason for him to accept his position and show... Because the grounds invoked by the applicants, often concerning the organisation of courts, the Supreme Court, the administrative court, do not conform to reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u460	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[Well, maybe I'll ask.]] Mr. President Klich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u461	Except after what we all heard from Senator Ziientarski, I share his opinion. - Just to be clear. - Mm-hmm. That at the moment the situation is absolutely unprecedented. I have a question. not to the rapporteur... not to the rapporteur, not to the senator to the minority rapporteur, but I have a question to the representative of the government. And I ask you, Mr. Marshall, to enforce the answer from a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u462	Mr. Chairman, wait a minute. But now we're at the point of questioning the rapporteurs. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If you don't mind, I'll finish it first and move on to the next point. [[If it's over, I have a question for the government representative.]] But I haven't finished it yet. [[Sure.]] Well, I understand that... [[Sure. I have a question for the representative...]] ...we'll finish the questions. [[We're done.]] Information: the draft law was introduced by Members. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's no government representative, so... [[And I have a question.]] ...no... [[I have 10 questions for the government representative.]] I understand, but there's no government representative. This isn't a government project. The government didn't take the case... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room:...but we have to ask.]] ...positions. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u463	Mr. Marshal, I want to ask you a question. Since there is no government representative, I will expect an answer to this question in writing. I have a question for the government representative. Namely, there is at least one unconstitutional, obviously unconstitutional feature of this law. This law is one of 3 package laws, while the Constitution in Article. 197, as I read, talks about the law, not about the laws governing the procedure and the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal. If so, it is already known today that it is an unconstitutional law. And I have a question for the Minister of Justice or one of his deputies. What is the government's answer to such a question? What is the government's attitude toward the constitutional doubts that arise here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u464	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u465	I understand there won't be an answer because there's still no government representative. I'm looking around, and I can see there's still no government representative. This, of course, is disregard for the Senate. I therefore make a formal request to continue the proceedings after the arrival of a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u466	Mr. Marshal, this request has already been filed by you... [[This isn't a recess request. That's another conclusion.]] It's practically the same conclusion. [[No, Mr. Marshal.]] Good. Let's vote. Is anybody against... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to...]] You're welcome. Mr. President Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u467	Mr. Marshal, I'm reading an article. 48 of our Rules of Procedure. Formal applications include applications... There are 12 points here and there is no such conclusion, Mr. Marshal. For eight years, you should learn exactly what the formal proposals are. [[That's the thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u468	Mr. Senator, I have listened very closely to the legal opinion, which shows that the deliberations can continue, even though there will not be a single senator in the Chamber. Such a conclusion can be drawn from this opinion. You can continue... The majority may continue their deliberations in the absence of a single senator. Such an absurd conclusion can be drawn from this opinion. [[But how will these proceedings be conducted then, Mr. Marshal?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] There will be a marshal leading. [[Then there will be someone, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Mr. Marshal is a senator too.]] [[Let's do some exercise.]] There's no government representative. You can't ask questions to a government representative. The chairman of the committee and the rapporteur shall not answer any question by concealing the results of the vote. I therefore reiterate my request to continue the proceedings after the arrival of a representative of the Government and ask that it be voted out. This is a proposal to change the way in which the proceedings are held. [[This is not a formal conclusion.]] [[Changing the way you drive...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u469	Mr Marshal, Mr Martynowski pointed out a very important point. I ask you to rephrase your proposal so that it is included in the list of conclusions contained in the article. 48 point 2.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u470	So I'm requesting a change of conduct. The point is that we can vote on the matter of continuing the proceedings after the arrival of a government representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u471	That was exactly Mr Klich's request. I will put him to the vote again as soon as the quorum appears in the Chamber. [[Counselor has a...]] [[Art. 48 point 9...]] [[Mr. Counselor...]] We voted on it once before. That's what I said. I'm opening a discussion. You're the first Senator Rybicki to speak. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The absence of a government representative, a representative of the applicants at a committee meeting and today's Senate meeting is not only a manifestation of disregard for the High House, but also an expression of the relationship and government, and applicants to the law itself. For the sixth time, in fact, we are debating in the High House another draft on the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] This title of the Act is formally governed by the Organisation and Procedure Act before the Constitutional Tribunal. Indeed, the laws of law and justice are intended to reduce the importance of the Court. And a more appropriate name would probably be another law that dismantles an institution that upholds constitutional values, including civil rights and freedoms. This law was really a parliamentary majority, contrary to the opinions of the European Parliament, today it was mentioned in this Chamber. The National Judicial Council and the Supreme Court, contrary to the opinions of the legislative offices of the Sejm and the Senate, which clearly point to the unconstitutionality of the bill... I don't want to say embarrassing problems that... This is to facilitate the PiS's full ownership of the Court. This is about the adoption of the procedure for the election of the new President of the Constitutional Tribunal, and let me remind you that the Professor's term of office ends on 19 December in such a way as to ultimately be the candidate designated by the Law and Justice. The provisions of the Act are worded as follows: To say no, it's cut. From the date of formation of the vacancy as President until his successor is elected, the Court shall be chaired by a specific person who fulfils the criteria laid down in the Act, namely Judge Przyłębska. She was elected to the Court last December... By the way, a little jokingly, it is worth noting that your judge is sick and often, like other judges elected by the Law and Justice, does not take part in the work of the Court or, as recently, in the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, breaking the quorum. Is this the effect of some kind of epidemic or other causes? And if these are the causes of enviable health, isn't it sometimes giving in to external pressure, which would be an absolute denial of the independence of the judge? [[Anyone can get sick.]] The appointment of a judge acting as President of the Court will also circumvent the constitutional clause on the role of Vice-President of the Court, who, in the absence or absence of the President, shall perform his duties, replace him and represent the Court outside. The Vice-President's institution is a constitutional institution. And at the Constitutional Court, the vice-president is, until 26 June next year, Professor Biernat. The second reason why the law is adopted in such a way is the legalization of 3 judges, so-called. understudys chosen by the Sejm and sworn in by the President, in a manner contrary to the Constitution, as full members of the General Assembly of Judges, thus bringing them closer to judgment. It's such a side door, so to speak, shoving these three judges with their knees so they can finally take part in the election of a new president. In this case there is also an obvious question about independence of at least one of future judges who, as it turns out, worked for Polish intelligence. This work itself is of course not reprehensible, it is a work for the Polish state, but the fact that this fact is concealed already makes this candidacy controversial. Someone who conceals the important facts from his life story is not exactly a reliable person. And whether a person associated with the services, in a common language: spy is said to be such persons Is it and will be completely independent in the future? Well, I hope so. [[There's gonna be a lawsuit.]] It is also completely incomprehensible that the youngest judge elected to the Court I will remind you that the Law and Justice have already indicated a person who will meet age criteria It will hold a general meeting of judges, electing a new President. [[What about these grandparents...]] And yet, it is a good custom, including this House and Parliament in general, that to hold the first sitting of the Sejm or Senate, which establishes the High House, elects a senator... The accepted good custom is that a person with the highest parliamentary internship or age is indicated. And that's a good rule. I don't know why it's broken, and it's in such a way that it can be treated as a mere setup, because it's precisely specified in the bill. [[Voice from the room: What if there are twins?]] And finally... [[Calm down, please.]] ...the rules that they solve by virtue of the Act on this, too, were mentioned here today. The Court's office. 2 other administrative structures are referred to here. This is also an obvious gateway to purges at the Court, at the Office of the Court and to dismissals of workers with a large legal background, law doctors, habilites, and to replace them, of course, with new lawyers this time. It's bad practice, of course. It is also the dismantling of the institution, which has been consistently built by successive Court formations, by successive Presidents, for the last 25 years. An institution which, in principle, provided adequate, substantive and generally apolitical guarantees for the Court's work. This law and another which is already being prepared to contain the introductory provisions are the work of destroying an institution which was one of the pillars of our young democracy, which is important, an institution which is not only to protect the rule of law and the constitutionality of laws, but also civil rights and freedoms. This law, which we are working on today, but also the earlier ones, such as surveillance, police, the prosecutor's office, the national media, such as the embezzlement of public television, public media, the dismantling of civil service, as well as the ones planned, which we will probably proceed in the coming days... The Law on Assembly actually restores regulations from the times of the Polish People's Republic, because what else is a cyclical assembly, like not appealing for example. For the freshman's torches? A similar rule will apply at the moment, that who will approach... [[It's turned around in my head.]] ...to a cyclical demonstration or to a distance greater than 100 m, it will be subject to repression. The various other laws that you are preparing, unfortunately, are ruining the law, ruining our country. [[Order...]] It seems that the question about the state of Polish democracy, as far as it is threatened and as much as the elimination of the important pillar of Polish democracy, which is the Court, is accelerating this process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u473	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. President Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u474	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There was a silent seym, there is a senate unnecessary. This week confirms that we have basically been completely instrumentalized by the rulers, by the government, by the Sejm. You don't take the Senate seriously. And I'm wondering if the State of Law and Justice is aware of that. And if you realize that, how long do you want to be treated like tools? Like passive tools. To be honest, what happened on Monday here, in this Chamber, when we discussed something that was not from a formal point of view, i.e. the obvious violation of any parliamentary rules, any parliamentary rules, I mean the PIT Act was already such a first signal. Now we're getting another senate unnecessary signal. Just like we're being treated now, we've never been treated. If you cannot ask a government representative who was still a year ago Remember, right? A year ago, on the night of December 23th to 24th, he sat here with us for a few hours and answered all the questions you asked. He answered with a long phrase all the questions asked. He responded in front of hundreds of thousands of people because hundreds of thousands of people watched this first step to dismantle the Constitutional Tribunal. Today those benches are empty. We asked that there be a representative of the Ministry of Justice of any rank in the courtroom so that we could ask him. There is also no representative of the Sejm. There is no rapporteur. And it was from the Seym that the bill came to us. How can one proceed in a situation where no one can be paid attention, in practical terms, apart from this House, that there is a fundamental error in this law and that this law is unconstitutional? It is non-constitutional because it infringes Article. 197 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. You either respect the Constitution or you don't respect it. If you respect it, you have to read it. When you read it, you can read that the mode and organisation of work of the Constitutional Tribunal is decided by the law, not by the law. We're working on one of the three parallels right now. We are about to receive a law on the implementation of the recent law and this law. We consider, as a club of the Civic Platform, that our presence in this Chamber at the moment would be to sanction this really mockery of the rule of law that is taking place here, and to bring it to the Senate ground floor, as we are witnessing. So we decided to leave the room right now. Thank you very much. [[A group of senators leaving the room.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u475	Thank you. Professor Sewerinski. [[And we said the same thing, like you...]] [[Voice from the hall: You should have protested then.]] [[Well, then you should've... you should've...]] [[They left in the Seym, too.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I only have a few comments to make. It is a pity that Senator Klich is not here because I would explain to him that the constitution always uses the term "a single bill." He doesn't talk about laws. If he sends it back, it's for the bill. Well, that would explain it. As for the substance, I will say that, of course, we all have the right to evaluate the bill we are debating in the Senate. We can even file as serious charges as the charge of unconstitutionality of a particular rule or even the entire law. We have the right to do that, and it's obvious. But when I listen to all these critical statements, very critical, this outrage about how things are going down and what kind of projects are set here, it's still... Let me tell you, this is a game of appearances for me. The senators and the opposition senator are certainly deeply and well aware of the real causes of the crisis in connection with the Constitutional Tribunal, the political and legal crisis. They know exactly who started it and why they're leading it. And this is... It makes me feel good because they understand what's going on here. However, the statements of the opposition are a political theatre, a game. And that's why I don't think it's worth arguing with them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u477	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I'm telling you... [[For protocol.]] For the record, Senator Zientarski has filed... [[It's not Zientarski, it's Komarnicki.]] Senator Komarnicki made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the senators Zientarski and Borusewicz have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. The vote on the formal proposal that Mr Klich has tabled will be held tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Yes? By 10:00. [[And then there's the committee meeting. Communication on committee meetings.]] [[Maybe communications.]] Maybe there's news about committee meetings, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u478	Message. The continuation of the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the review of the Act on the Prevention of Unfair Use of Contractual Advantages in the Trade in Plant and Food Products will take place tomorrow, 2 December, at 8.15 a.m. in room 182. [[And then there's the Legislative Board...]] [[It is up to the President to say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-senat-31-4.u479	What about the Legislative Board? [[Half an hour after the adjournment...]] [[I just got a text, but there's no...]] There's no... [[Mr. Chairman, please announce it.]] We don't have any messages for... [[It's Mr. Chairman, let's...]] All right, take a break. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 21 minutes 01]]
