ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u1	Resume the session! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! I propose changing the order of consideration of the point concerning the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015. We will consider this point by the point concerning the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. We will then return to dealing with the items in order from the agenda to item 13. Is there any objection to the proposal? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of item 18 of the agenda: the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. On the basis of the article. Paragraph 7 1 The Act on Radiophony and Television The Senate appoints one member of the National Council of Radiophony and Television from among those distinguished by knowledge and experience in the field of social media. I would like to inform you that the vote on the selection of a member of the National Radio and Television Council will take place immediately after this point. I would also like to inform you that the following candidates have been submitted: Mrs Teresa Bochwic, I welcome you very warmly, good morning; and Mr Janusz Daszczyński I welcome you very warmly. The CVs of the candidates are included in print No 222. On 7 July 2016, the Senate Marshal sent proposals to the Committee on Culture and Media concerning the candidates submitted for their opinion. The Commission held a hearing on 19 July 2016 and prepared a report on the subject. The committee's report is contained in print No 222 O. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to speak and report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u2	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Candidates to the National Radio and Television Council! I was honoured to present, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, the report of the committee meeting held on 19 November 2016. [[November wasn't there yet.]] July, I'm sorry. I said "November," right? [[Yeah, but that's okay.]] ...19 July 2016 Two candidates were submitted to the National Radio and Television Council. These are Mrs Teresa Bochwic and Mr Janusz Rajmund Daszczyński. Ms Teresa Bochwic was reported by a group of senators, Janusz Rajmund Daszczyński was also reported by a group of senators. Some senators were of Law and Justice, and as for Mrs Teresa Bochwic, and as for Mr Janusz Daszczyński, they were senators of the Civic Platform. The Commission has had an opportunity to familiarise itself with the views of both candidates. As regards the discussion at the committee meeting, it concerned new conditions for the operation of the National Council of Radiophony and Television, as we know, for the adoption by Parliament of the Act on the National Media Council, which changed the scope of the activities of the National Council of Radiophony and Television. The discussion was substantive. The Commission held a hearing of the candidates and gave a positive opinion on Ms Teresa Bochwic's candidacy. The Commission has taken a negative view of Mr Janusz Rajmund Daszczyński's candidacy. At the same time, the committee concluded that both candidates had been properly notified. Thank you... Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, one more thing. As far as the CV of candidates is concerned, they are included in print No 222, where you have them, so I will not present the silhouettes of both candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. Mr. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u4	The question to the Senator of the rapporteur: why did the committee have a negative opinion on one of the candidates, Mr Janusz Daszczyński? [[Voice from the room: Votes were.]] So that you don't get away with this question, I immediately ask how you voted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u5	I would like to inform you, Mr. Marshal, that in the vote of 7 votes you received Teresa Bochwic and 6 votes you received Janusz Daszczyński. I voted in favour of Mrs Teresa Bochwic's candidacy. That's the committee's choice, and that's all I can say. The senators should be asked why they voted in the way they voted. Thank you. [[I'd be happy to answer you, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u6	Please, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, and then Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka. Senator Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I don't really like the word "negative." Of course, I held this committee meeting as chairman. Excellent references, knowledge about television, media and management was shown by Mr Daszczyński, he gained great appreciation for all of us, but he simply decided most of the votes. So I'd like to hear whether it means that he's been evaluated negatively or that he just lost the vote because there were more people who voted for Mrs Bochwic.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u8	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is what I read from the report that says so. I was not the one who prepared this report, it was the Legislative Bureau that formulated the text of the report. And second of all, I personally, but that's my private opinion. I regret that the Senate only points to one member of the National Radio and Television Council. But that's the radio and television bill. Let me remind you that two candidates point to the Sejm, the 2nd President, the 1st Senate. So that the senators simply voted as they thought they were going to vote. Moreover, we could not choose two candidates, only one, because the law sets out in a precise way the number and way of selecting members of the National Radio and Television Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u10	Thank you, Senator. Now you will speak, you will ask Senator Barbara Zdrojewska and then Senator Boris-Damięcka. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: No, now I...]] Sorry, that was the order of applications. Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, I don't think there's any point in prolonging this discussion because she's barren. This is any interpretation by the rapporteur... [[Senator's voice.]] ...who above all should not give his private opinion, as he just did, justifying why he voted, how he voted, etc., because it is his duty to present... [[Ask me a question, Senator.]] ...report from the committee meeting. [[Senator, ask me a question.]] I'll ask the question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Why does the senator use the phrase "negative opinion"? Please quote at least one negative statement to the other candidate. As you have rightly said, Mrs Teresa Bochwic has received 7 votes, Mr Janusz Daszczyński has 6 votes, which means that the majority of the votes has been received by Mrs Teresa Bochwic and automatically because she has obtained a majority of votes, she is a candidate of the committee for the National Council. But in the discussion, as far as I remember, and I'm a member of this committee, there was no negative comment on anyone... [[Senator, a question, please.]] There were questions asked... [[Question, please.]] Then why do you, so to speak, make your own private opinion and make your own private point of view? Please quote at least one negative voice that has fallen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u12	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u13	I don't think the senator heard what I said, and she didn't get to know the print number 222 O. Please read the last paragraph: The Commission has conducted a hearing of candidates for the National Radio and Television Council and has given a positive opinion on Ms Teresa Bochwic's candidacy. The Commission has taken a negative view of Mr Janusz Rajmund Daszczyński's candidacy. That's what's written in the senate print. I didn't edit this print, I'd like your comments to the Legislative Bureau. And as for the rest of your speech, which was not a question, that is your comment, and I leave it without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u14	Thank you. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator. [[I'm giving up asking questions. I wanted to ask you the same question as Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka and I share her opinion. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. You're Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Yes, Mr. Marshal? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u15	Senator, do you have a choice? It's a rhetorical question, of course, but I see there's been some confusion here. Is the election not made at the committee's meeting and in plenary? [[Of course. You discovered America as a marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u16	Mr. Senator Ryszka, please refrain from commenting. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u17	Of course, the choice is made by the House in pleno, so this is the opinion and I am presenting the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Media. Confirming your Marshal's thought. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, please, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u19	However, I did not get the answer to the question, and my question was, my request to the rapporteur: quote, apart from the fact that you quoted the contents of the protocol... I'm surprised, and I'm gonna bring this to the head of the Legislative Bureau... Can the legislator, when writing and drawing up the report, use on his own responsibility any of his own statements, not the statements that were expressed at the committee meeting? That's one thing. Secondly, I asked to quote at least one negative opinion, which was given during the committee meeting to the candidate, Mr Janusz Daszczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u20	As to the comments, Senator, regarding the way this text is edited, I think it is very appropriate for the senator to come forward and ask. I can say that, in fact, there were no negative statements at the committee meeting in relation to Mr Janusz Daszczyński's candidacy. No one questioned his qualifications, his accomplishments. That's all I can say. I read it as a rapporteur. And please don't involve me in this general debate, Senator. I read the text, which is the official text, is contained in print No 222 O. It was my duty, and that's what I was trying to do. Thank you. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Ending this exchange...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u21	Thank you very much. Mrs. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka:...I would like to say that you, as Vice-President, should not...]] Mrs. Senator... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka:...read only what was delivered to you on a piece of paper...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka:...just pay attention to the incorrect wording.]] Senator, I didn't give you the floor. [[But there was no negative opinion.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I quote from the Rules of Procedure: The Commission shall present to the Senate a list of correctly submitted applications and opinions based on the interviews conducted. The print that the senator refers to was based on the opinions expressed during the hearing of the candidates. That's why... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the senator is quoting the print prepared by the Legislative Bureau. [[I'm in the voice, I guess.]] Mr. Senator, I'll give you the floor. Thank you very much, Senator, for answering that question. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u22	Mrs Marshal, since this is the wording in the report... Well, I feel guilty about that. I signed the report I received from the Legislative Bureau. If such a formula is a formula according to the rules, then I can't help it. I can only apologize to Mr. Dashkiewicz for the fact that... [[Voices from Daszczynski's room.]] Yes, Daszczynski, for what happened. For the second time, I'm gonna run a background check, although since I'm not a lawyer... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm very sorry, sir, and I inform you that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u23	Mr. Senator, this concludes the discussion. You're welcome, okay? [[Yes. And I'm also asking you to end it.]] [[Voice from the room: I am also saved...]] Senator, I'll be with you in a minute. Senator Piotr Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u24	Thank you very much. The question I want to ask is that the answer has already been partially answered. I'd like to ask who's signing, who's responsible for printing... [[That's the answer, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, yeah, but... [[The printing on the basis of the committee's position was prepared by the Legislative Bureau and signed by the President.]] Yeah, but I'd like to... [[Ask me a question.]] I'd like to complete that question. Is it not so that it is necessary for the committee to vote on a specific proposal to express a negative opinion on the candidacy A request for a negative opinion? It's not a vending machine. If someone doesn't get a positive opinion, it doesn't mean they got a negative one. [[Voice from the room: Yes, of course.]] [[It's a rule book.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u25	Mr. Senator, I read the senate print. Senator Fedorovich signed this paper as chairman of the committee. As for this kind of consideration... I propose to ask the Senate Bureau to settle this issue. It is a matter of reasoning, reflection, expressing my own comments or opinions that goes beyond my competence as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u26	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? [[I have a question.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Is it true that Janusz Daszczyński's dossier was assessed as excellent during the deliberations of the committee? [[I don't think Mr. Ryszka was listening.]] He's got a great management, radio and television resume. But the vote turned out the way it was. The word "negative" does not refer to the biography of Mr. Daszczyński... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...only is the legal formula used in the committee's work. The same is true for amendments that we recommend or do not recommend. [[Senator Ryszka...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u28	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u29	I can confirm that. Mr. Senator, I said very clearly that there were no negative opinions. To answer Senator Boris-Damięcka's question, I would like to make it clear that there was no negative opinion. Didn't anyone say he was negative on anyone or... There were no such statements at the committee meeting. You received print number 222. It contains information about both candidates and you will take a decision in the course of the vote. I'm merely presenting the committee's opinion, and I take this phrase as... well, it's a formula. Because how else could it be written so as to express clearly what happened at the committee meeting? We've already talked about this. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, this phrase is not used for the first time. The State notes here that it was similar in the case of the vote on the election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. At that time, it did not cause any controversy. So, I suggest we close the story. Are there any other questions for the senator? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Before adopting a resolution on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Radio and Television, the Senate may call on the candidate to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Any of you senators want to ask Mrs Teresa Bochwic a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Do any of you senators wish to ask Mr Janusz Daszczyński a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you... [[Voices from the O.R.: They're here.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Senator Augustine. Mr. Janusz Daszczyński for the podium, please. [[Candidate for Member of the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Daszczyński: After 20 years for the first time.]] The first question will be asked by Marshal Borusewicz, and another by Senator Augustine. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Daszczyński: Good morning.]] Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u31	You've been president of public television lately, and I have a question about this area. After you left, there was a change in public television. How do you assess the direction of these changes? How do you rate ratings? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u32	Quiet, please. I'm asking you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u33	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! I'm answering the question. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's question is bothering you, but thank you very much. Not such situations, so embarrassing, I found myself president of Polish Television for six months. I would like to draw attention to this. A single-member board. The question is clear: as I rate the current TV, after January 8th, when I gave it in a peaceful way, I would like to stress this. Mr Jack Kursk, who I have known for many years because we are both Gdansk people, we both graduated from the same high school; I, of course, was earlier, and Mr Jacek Kurski was pretty a few years later. It's actually the CEO's forge, because also the Walendziak Village, and Marian Terlecki, they're all third-grade graduates... [[You have a good background.]] Well, I didn't choose that. Anyway, here's the thing about TV now... Of course, I watch it from time to time, with sentiment, but also to be able to answer such questions. I'll be brief: it's not my TV. I wanted to format this TV differently in terms of programming. I wanted television and antennas and programmes, especially informational and publicist programmes, to be a platform for public debate, peaceful, balanced, so that there would be no verbal battle, so that information could be provided to the public so that it could make an opinion on the subject itself. [[Voice from the room: I want...]] I don't know if I should react to... [[Voice from the room: Do not react.]] Don't react. Good. I'll cut to the chase. Namely I would like to evaluate the current Polish Television Although it's very awkward from my point of view, I say it right away. On three levels: programming, personnel and organizational. Maybe I'll start with an organizational one. So it is with pleasure, as well as with personal satisfaction, that some of the reforms that I started during this less than half a year of my presidency are continuing. It's continued, you can see it every day. Namely, the example is that it has already been divided into parts of creation and part of production by a huge, unnecessarily large television pier such as the Television and Film Production Agency. Mr Wojciech Hoflik, an excellent professional in this field, employed by me in November last year. And I am very pleased that Mr. Wojciech Hoflik's work continues. It is similar in several other areas. Namely, I read that Mr. Jacek Kurski is going to create a strong program center on TV. This is part of the October project that I submitted to the Supervisory Board, and if it's a strong program center, it's chapeau bass. TV needs one organisational management, of course, when it comes to programmes, it is more complicated. I need a lot to talk about. It's like commercial television, but I don't want to name any of them, and I don't want to be able to rule better, and I don't want to control my finances at all. And I hope that this program center will rise, it will be strong, it will have the proper form. As for personnel matters, I'll walk like this from the end. The state knows very well that the viewers are getting used to the characters that function on the screen for years. That's the way it is. One of my friends, I can even say that from my girlfriends, an outstanding program manager, television... You can figure out who it is. Well, she said I'm sorry, 'cause it's kind of... not so uncensored, but not too literary. Jake, as he eats, don't move. It's a rule that says if it's okay, it's an adjustment. There you go, there can always be, there can be profiling for taste, so to speak, personal boss It's all right, because it's him who answers, but already radical changes of everything and program changes of the kind of return to the Teleranka, to the Probe, what I say with all due respect, even to the Pegaza... well, it's not really, I'll be honest. Now, on personal matters, I'm going to say that the exodus is huge. I admit he's under civilized conditions for what we expected. You know that my leading directors, Ones, Twos, TVP Culture, also the Television Information Agency, resigned before 8 January 2016, for various reasons, but among others. It's to get away from art. 52. Lucky for no one. Maybe only with the exception of 2, 3 people, I don't get into it, not me so detailed it was not evaluated in this article. But the damage to public television, even in areas where politics does not generally occur, is inextricable. And we all see that there's no e.g. Grażyna Torbicka or other characters of this kind cause public television to drop, and it falls dramatically. About the programming issues... My first decision was to get my colleagues to give up the tabloidization of news, panoramas and other information programs to throw away these michałki, such hilarious information, sometimes in good, but more often in bad taste. And that's what happened. I was warned then that it was against even, I would say, world rules, because there must be something serious, something light, there must be such an apartment. And I don't think such a mixture in information programs is necessary. I insisted, it's... I mean, it's on the Internet. I said leave me these posts and I ask you to do as I tell you. And what happened, ladies and gentlemen? Of about 4 million viewers I'm talking about average ratings. At 7:30 p.m., this ratings skyrocketed to 5 million, to a peak of 5 million 300 thousand viewers. Of course, all of this is measured by the same methods. And now we have 2 million, 2 million 300. Well, maybe that's it. I wouldn't want to develop here, so it doesn't sound too fancy to my successors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u35	Mr. President, please tell me. 'Cause in special circumstances, we're choosing a member of the National Council today. How do you assess the change that the National Media Council Act has brought about? This law also profiles the tasks of the National Radio and Television Council differently. How do you picture the functioning of both of these counsels, and what is your attitude toward this change?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u36	In a minute, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Senator Sławomir Rybicki's question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for you as former president of public television and a candidate for the National Council. What is your opinion on public television censoring the President of the United States? What are you going to do if the High House trusts you and gives you a mandate at the National Radio and Television Council? What should the National Council do in such a situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u38	And I'd like to ask you a question from Senator Rulewski. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Then there's the answers.]] The question was essentially meant to be addressed to both candidates, but I missed the moment when the first candidate answered, so I am asking you as experienced in matters of the National Radio and Television Council. The problem of television, the National Council and all media in Poland was underfunding, deep underfunding. Despite the promises, the PiS has not solved this problem either, and so far there is no substantive proposal. How do you imagine the operation and expansion of ratings is about your concern? In a situation where nothing has changed and everything is to change?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u40	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u41	Thank you very much. The National Media Radio, of course, was established in accordance with the Act of 22 April 2016, which, after all, also passed through this House and was signed by the President. He's a fact, he's a legal being. As far as I know, members of the National Media Council are about to be elected. Thank God, the state that I believe has been unacceptable for six months, absolutely unacceptable in a civilized democratic state, ends, that the president of television or the president of the television board calls and dismisses In particular, it cancels without giving a reason One of the members of the government. It's after 25, 26 years. In fact, maybe a little less, because the bill came into force... I'm talking about the first one, the original one, dated 29 December 1992, which came into force. practically 1 January 1994 I was then a member of the Management Board, the first board of the Polish Share Company Television. And there has always been a smaller or larger system of buffers between carefully, I hope, the elected authority or the management of public television and public radio and representatives, the government party. What do I see now, my dears? Ba, I'm telling you how it is, I'm telling you how I feel. The bad news is television that criticizes the opposition and glorifys the government. She's unbelievable. That's just the way it is. As for the National Media Council, this is a significant step, a significant step towards building a buffer system, a buffer between national and public television, so to speak, we know what's going on. National radio, public radio, and the Polish Press Agency. There's a buffer. The system of electing members of the National Media Council is similar to the system of selecting members of the National Radio and Television Council. It's a little different out there, 'cause... I regret very much that the Senate is not involved, but the Sejm and the President. However, this is certainly a turn in the right direction after a six - year period. Of course, this means that the National Radio and Television Council will have a new beginning, because it will no longer be able to accept the choice made by e.g. the supervisory boards of radio and television, the selection of candidates for the positions or functions of members of the Management Board or the President. But there's no bad thing that doesn't work out for the best. Namely, they are aligned in the jurisdiction of the National Council of Radio and Television public media and commercial media. There is no longer this distinction when it comes to special concerns about public media, now often called national ones. The cooperation between these two bodies, the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council, must and hopefully will be. Not much, it should go harmoniously. During the first period, she should focus on solving the very painful issue that Senator Rulewski referred to, namely the financing of public television, i.e. all hands on board to ensure a reasonable system of financing public media, may be mixed, but certainly with a significant, at least 70% share of the audiovisual fee. After all, you know very well that today is the case that public television, for years... Although in my day, during my first membership, we had the first 2 boards of Polish Television, we had the comfort, because then there was 70% with a subscription and 30% with advertising. Now it's the other way around. And a horse with a row of people who can satisfy everyone with that kind of funding. You just can't. Therefore, it is necessary very skillfully, not nervously, in a hurry, modeling the program, to move on to a new stage, when we are in Poland, when it comes to financing public media. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. My daughter used to write a job at a film school in Łódź. It's on production. . about the subscription. And she asked me, Dad, what is this subscription for a good cause? I say, you know, it's a mandatory charge for having a TV at home that's functional and you can pick up a TV signal. And she says, like this, movies, everything's somewhere else. Yes? We have, for example. Cable, that's what we pay. I, of course, wouldn't be I pay a radio-television subscription, but it's actually an archaic approach. This is an approach from a time when there were 100 or 200 receivers in Warsaw, and the subscription law of June 2005 did not improve this situation at all, because it did not change the definition of subscription. It's not enough, now there's a fight: let a postman or a clerk in the house to see if I have a TV or not to let them in? It's a bad case, because once when there were tube TVs, when you took one lamp out of the TV, the receiver wasn't usable and then you didn't have to pay the subscription. When you put it back in, the receiver worked and you could watch. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to encourage you... I'm sorry, I know it's not my authority at all, but it's a concern about the state of television and public radio, especially about the state of the program, the state of this missionary part, because you can probably deal with commercial as you have to. It's just to get back to the case. She really is, as Senator Rulewski said, so messed up that I can't believe it. That's what I'm gonna say. With regard to the National Media Council and the operation of the National Radio and Television Council in general in relation to the establishment of the National Media Council and in view of the level playing field that I mentioned, the interest of the National Council in the entire media market And the commercial, and the public part is what to do. There's really something to do. I already told you about the funding. This is the first task of cleaning up your efforts and trying to settle this matter. In this context You'll probably have to, too. It's not my job, it's Parliament's job to review the Radio and Television Act, which, of course, has been amended many times, but its church is the Act of 29 December 1992, the first law on Radio and Television. Times have changed, maybe you need to review the bill, maybe you need to realize just one point that has somehow been forgotten. I am referring to the issue of archives, that is, everything that television, then the state, so to speak, in the form of Radio and bands, created before 1994. In theory, if the provisions of the 1992 Act were to be applied literally, these archives should become the property of the Polish Television. And they're owned or temporarily owned by state archives. But according to the system of agreements that apply every 2 years... which apply there, the Polish Television administers these collections, carries out digitization, renews them, etc., etc. And then the deal again... And there's a lot of trouble with all this, because you don't really know how access to these harvests is regulated. Is public television a priority, or maybe commercial televisions can ask for pre-1994 programmes? So that's a very important problem too. Copyright issue. There's something to do at the National Radio and Television Council. Namely: there was no Internet It's the Internet. Most of the major majority of the archival programs are not listed in contracts such as the Internet. It's gotta be done. The issue of digital media library, launched by the National Radio and Television Council, needs to be completed. etc., etc. You can exchange tasks that are not relevant for hours Well, what do you usually think? Only public television or public radio are concerned with the entire media market. And maybe a word about President Obama and the one you... [[I didn't get the answer to whether you could make this TV in the money or not. I'd ask for a one-man answer.]] According to your expectations No, no, no, no, [[Mr. President, you need to leave now.]] [[Voice from the hall: Which countries?]] All of you. Because, as I understand it, all of you want public television to stand out from commercial television so that it doesn't race commercial television on the terms that commercial television sets. Because it's a dead end. Then we would have, as we used to say, commercial public television. You can't do that. You just need some resources, and it's not that big a... It's not a few pennies. Television production is expensive. Radio is, of course, many times cheaper. But there's no... If we want, it's hard, public tribute, bigger, smaller, like, different, from the counter, not from the counter... This can be discussed for hours. In fact, these discussions last for years. But there's a time to decide. There's a time to consider and there's a time to decide. It's said, "Oh, that's okay." And then there's Obama. I hope... [[Censors, not Obama.]] [[Censors.]] Oh, yeah, censorship. I think Senator Rybicki asked a question in a rhetorical form. What can I say? What can anyone say? You can't cut, inside, statements from the President of the United States or anyone else. [[But the media lives on it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Please, the question is Senator Alexander Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u43	Mr President, referring to your words that television should be reliable, objective, calm, I would like to ask: how do you assess the operation of public television under your direction in the months of November December of the previous year, after the election? Please, very briefly. [[Voices from the hall: Yes, sir!]] [[Well done, Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u44	And here you are, asking Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. [[Excuse me, my question has already been asked by Senator Rybicki, so there will be no question.]] Okay, thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. You said that, in your opinion, of course... But I'm not surprised, because I think you have a very big sentiment for TV, where you worked, just like all of us have a sentiment for things that you've done... [[Voice from the room: Like the Senate.]] ...and it's hard to criticize his successors, because you never know what's gonna happen to anyone in your life. [[Question, Mr. Senator, please.]] The question is: you said that the layoffs were civilized, but the press said otherwise, so I would ask, as my colleague, Senator Rulewski, for a man's answer in this matter. Second question. You gave an example that, within six months, when the television authorities changed, the ratings of the journal dropped from 5 million or 5.5 million, let's say, to 2 million. Well, it's a big gap. It's hard to even explain. In the normal industry I'm not just talking about the television industry anymore. If retail sales of the product fell so much, the entire board would probably be thrown out by the board of directors. Why here, I don't know... Who's letting this happen? Visibility's down, the cause's probably everybody knows. Because as for those 2 million people who are watching the news, today, I think only sports messages are being viewed, not the main ones, because in these sports, at least you can tell what actually happened. [[And the weather forecast...]] And my third question. You may not be aware, but yesterday we discussed the reprivatization bill and, surprisingly, there was a strange record in this bill. It's weird, because the bill is about something else. A request or a new president to finance television with the amount of tens of millions of zlotys. It is strange, absurd that such records are included in the above-mentioned law. I think television, like any company, should be looking for money elsewhere. Because other TVs are growing, and this one is ours. Ours, because we identify with her, too. He's gonna stop being right in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u46	And, please, Mr. Senator Żaryn. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u47	Mr. President, your opponent, Mrs. Teresa Bochwic, is the author of a very well-known report. He's got about 90 pages, so I'm not gonna put it all together. This report on the state of the media in Poland was written and published in 2011. The main thesis of this report I repeat, it was 2011, but if this report were to continue, perhaps the above-mentioned thesis would not change: the media in Poland at that time, including public media, and so also Polish Television, came out of the role of informing the Polish society and became a co-manipulator of Polish society as a party to the political dispute. [[Voice from the room: It's like that now.]] I would like to ask you to comment on this opinion and ask whether you share it. We haven't had time to ask the other candidate, so let's get this report out of your mouth.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u48	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u49	Thank you very much. Well, maybe I'll answer you in the order of questioning. How do I judge? Polish Television after the elections on 25 October 2015? I can judge it only from my perspective, i.e. from the perspective of the then president of Polish Television. I've tried, I hope, with success. In order for the Polish Television not to be sensitive to... not to be influenced by current political events, even as important as parliamentary elections or, earlier, presidential elections. Well, it's not my time, it's my predecessor's. It's about keeping the TV in style, keeping the line. What I started to do... I was convinced. Maybe it was naivety. That I will hold a term of office for four years unless I am sentenced to a final sentence, I will die if this third or fourth situation occurs, in which case the President of the election may be dismissed in a lawful manner. That's why I didn't measure anything for a month, for two or four months or five months, just for four years. And that was my plan. Therefore, it would be very unwise to fold the banner or set it in a different direction. You have to do your job, according to the good old-fashioned rule. Well, it's a classic... I wrote a six-page or 7-page document, which is also available on the Internet, which is a summary of my expectations, plans and projections regarding public television and its development. And with an iron consequence, I tried to... [[Would you like some water? There you go.]] I'd love to. ...to stick to these rules. I hope that all of this has been visible, despite the various obstacles on various sides, concerning the fact that President Andrzej Duda is not showing up enough and so on. You know, I wrote corrections that once appeared and once didn't. People can count, and in time it was perfectly decent. So I think that television before the election, television under my direction, was like this. It's like television after the election. These principles are described in this document. I even quoted them here, but on another occasion, expecting a media question to be asked at all. I think that according to this classic definition of public television or wider: public media It should set journalistic, technical, programme and organizational standards. And what would hurt to extend these rules to the entire electronic media market? And these are simple rules, because it's about the basic role of the media, about civic education, about supporting society, about getting closer and solving problems that move forward They show, information, publicity, documentaries, entertainment, culture... Oh, yeah. Politics? Oh, yeah. Except that policy should, at least according to the ideal model, be presented in the media in a pluralistic way, from the perspective of openness to political party programmes, and with care for the culture of discussion. This is a very important thing. I know that there is dynamics at the time, but it is worth sacrificing this dynamic for the culture of discussion. So you can build such an ideal model of electronic media. To some extent, the Internet can also be included in this. As you know, 800 entrepreneurs are listed in the National Council Registers on the dissemination or distribution of television programmes. This is 800 and this is it. 800. These are unbelievable numbers, unbelievable in terms of their size. There are 460 TV programs available in Poland, including 180 in Polish I'm not saying Polish, I'm saying Polish. And there's the Internet, there's the Internet platforms. I'm going to add one more element that... I'd like to make it sound here that Mr. Jacek Kurski I thank him very much for this. It also continues to address the creation of a digital public television platform. It is about withdrawing content from commercial platforms and creating a digital platform with public television programmes. Because so far, it's like they're flying all over the side and it doesn't make much sense. So that this is also an important undertaking. About the layoffs... Please understand me well: it does not mean that I approve of these dismissals in any case. Now, there are 185 people on the lists led by the Society of Journalism. And it's just 185 people, ladies and gentlemen, it's such a nice... small, but nice commercial television set, all of it. With these people you can quietly create a TV channel at a very high level. I'm just saying the form that it hasn't happened the way it used to be, I don't want to give you a specific year, but it did. That 52 people on the pavement, 52 people on the pavement and again 52 people on the pavement without any briefings, without periods of pronouncement. Now it wasn't, and that's an advantage. I'm the only one who didn't have a notice period, but you've already given it up, and I have no objection. Yeah, that's how it is. I absolutely don't approve of it, but the way it is, I mean. equipment for a few months For at least 3 months or 6 months of these people, from day to day without work, I notice. I don't approve of all this, but I do notice that. Everyone has a family, everyone has kids... well, not everyone, but most of them. Besides, there's also life beyond ideology... there's bread, there's a fridge, and so on. About the ratings... These 5 million with pennies and 2 million with pennies are, of course, extreme, that's not the average. I have tried here to praise the ratings, which sometimes in the case of news is at 5.5 million spectators, but I am saying here, so to speak, about the peak achievement, which is also of course a consequence of events in Poland and in the world. Because you know how calm it is, how summer water is, it's summer water, so there's not that much interest. But it also depends on the seasons, believe me: in summer interest is usually smaller, in autumn It's bigger. But the difference is powerful, but I can't explain why it is. That's what you'd have to ask the viewers: why don't you tell them why you're not watching... I know more or less, but I won't. So that's pretty much what it looks like. Another thing: finance versus ratings. We know these are connected vessels, and there's nothing to talk about. With this formatting of public media, radio and television, which is now, such a classic mission, understood in a very, very, very, very, very booky way, for obvious reasons is slightly less. As to the question or the comments of Senator Zarin regarding 2011 and the report, I am sorry, but I do not know this report. I returned from Shanghai at the time, I was there for a year because I conducted a Polish exhibition in Shanghai at the 2015 Expo. But as far as this report is concerned and the passages or opinions quoted by your senator are concerned, I absolutely share them. Well, what's there to say, huh? I wouldn't be me if I were here to argue, so... What else was there? I don't know if I wrote it right... [[How about another question, Mr. President?]] [[Co-financing under the reprivatization bill.]] I, of course, read and press, and virtual media, because somehow mentally I can't get away from the media. Because, as you know, how you read I hope you've read my résumé. My roots are in electronics at the Gdańsk University of Technology at the Faculty of Electronics, specialization: radio and television. Of course, I was such an active, classic engineer for 2 or 3 years, later I was no longer, but I was a media manager, hopefully a successful one, because I also had a few achievements on the independent press market, also in the state of war, when I worked on the creation of a diocesan two-week-old Sea Star, then there were the Gdansk Gdansk Newspaper and the weekly This is where Senator Rybicki knows this story perfectly. My chief was Lech Bądkowski, and I was his deputy. I'll always remember him. Always. It's a big character. And on the subject of the Reprivatization Fund and requests for funding... Well, the sinking razor grabs on. I'd ask you too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u50	Thank you. Senator Dorota Czudowska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Do you really correlate the low public television ratings with the government's assessment? Let me just add that when the ratings were high, the Poles canceled the PO government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u52	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Krystian Probier. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u53	Mr President, you spoke here about your television and the fact that the current Television Poland is not your TV. You also spoke of certain rules. And that's one of those rules I'd like to ask you about. How was the principle of separating information from comment on your television? Notabene, including today's speech, information about whether the answers to simple questions asked from the room were somehow mixed with a comment that might even be interesting under other conditions. One more question, a bit of reference to Senator Dowhan's statement on sport. How was sports information transmitted on your television? By the way, I don't think there was a lottery Totolotka, and Free Europe is no longer broadcasting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u54	Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u55	I answer the question that leads to the conclusion that the high audience of public television leads to the collapse of the government. To reverse this question, low ratings lead to a strengthening of the government. Well, maybe that's what he's gonna do. I don't know. What the... Maybe two words about sports. Well, not many people know because it's not the knowledge that penetrates into society. How much they cost sports rights, how they are acquired and in which groups they are acquired. There is an EBU organisation, namely the European Broadcasting Union, to which public televisions belong from all over Europe, and this organisation is acting on behalf of its members who, of course, participate in this undertaking, for the rights to the Olympics, for the world championships in soccer, etc., etc. Because the figures are that no national television can handle it by itself. And thanks to God, Television Poland operates in the form of a public limited company, which to be clear There is no obligation to earn, there is no obligation to generate profit, which would be a big misunderstanding. Poland's television belongs to EBU and consists of purchasing rights, especially Olympic rights, for years before 2022, which have already been purchased. And if public television had changed in a way that, I would say, would have messed up... If there was a disturbance in the membership of public television in EBU, it would be a great problem to take off on your own. We need to run together, we need to work together for these rights, and then we need to share national fragments. As far as broadcasting territory is concerned, whether digital or analog... Analog broadcasting, as far as public television is concerned, is actually gone in Poland, i.e. there is no analogue television broadcasting at all. The radio's sticking to the analog, and it's probably gonna hold on for a while. We'll see. [[I don't think that's more than possible... and a chapter in the commentary from the information...]] You know, with the fact that I... I don't really understand... Because, yeah, I'm here... I don't know if there's a broadcast or not on TV... [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] Oh, shit. Mrs. Marshal, you should've told me before, I wouldn't have... [[Mr. President, you're in the Senate. All deliberations are being broadcast. I'm asking for factual answers.]] I'm sorry, but... [[Because too long speeches make you pass on too much content, not talk about matters that are merit. So please answer the question. Because there are more senators...]] Thank you so much for your attention. I'll try to limit myself to dry facts, no comment. My view not only of public television programs, but of all the information programs anywhere, is that there is an informational part and of course then there are programs that comment on reality, that is, their participants comment on reality, because not journalists. This is the biggest workshop error and anything if the journalist is a party to the dispute. It's horrible. Well, maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u56	Thank you. Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u57	I have a question, but before that, one sentence of introduction doesn't mean that we don't hear what you're saying. I'm gonna be astronomical here. I believe that this television, especially in November and December 2015, was fatal, and Mrs Lewicki's interview with Mr Glinski was not an accident at work, but, you might say, a symbol of this period. I'm gonna ask my questions right away, and then I'm gonna explain them. I want to get away from the past we're dealing with here, and I want to hear from you something about the future. The National Radio and Television Council... there are three areas that bother me very much on TV. And I'd like to know if you'll find the tools to manage and try to influence these areas somehow. The first element is the matter of content, maybe entertainment... But in serious conversations there is a mockery of people with disabilities. The second element would be this general term: embarrassment when it comes to the content that appears on television. You will also be responsible for and manage private television. And the third element is the element of blasphemy. And here's the explanation. For professional reasons, I have a very broad contact with people who are chained to bed. They often can't even handle the computer, so they don't have access to the Internet, they're doomed to television content. From this perspective, mocking people with disabilities, embarrassment and blasphemy I am referring to a very broad area that goes beyond the issues of Christianity. The view is particularly sad, and this is particularly severe. Do you see this problem, and do you see any way in terms of the office you are applying to minimize this phenomenon? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u58	Thank you. Senator Sławomir Rybicki. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In his question, Senator Żaryn referred to the 2011 report prepared by Mrs Bochwic, evaluating the political commitment of political media. Please tell me whether there are institutions in Poland, apart from private institutions, which keep track of public media and examine their objectivity, also examine the objectivity of current public television programs. E.g. Such a programme of Poland's road to NATO is quite commonly considered to be very objective. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u60	Thank you. Anyone else want to ask the president a question? No. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u61	Mr. Senator, what can I say? I can't imagine anyone with at least a trace mind mocking people with disabilities. I can't imagine it. If such cases occur, they are worth the greatest damnation. And you have to fight these attitudes. I can't imagine... any of us. It's like it's going a little beyond... Well, it could be different in a minute, 'cause everybody's got some kind of ailment. Respect for people with disabilities who, despite their disability, are active... Senator Libicki is not in Senator Libicki's room. I know he's abroad. Well, the senator is super active. He's not an art... The art is to overcome weaknesses. No, no... I can't even comment on it. Those blasphemies... I wasn't raised in such a way that I would approve of any behavior or any wording that I would say vulgarly contain vulgarism. But sometimes there are situations, so to speak, soft... I know one character whose mouth sounds funny, but it's a question of some kind of personality, sense. But if it's an ornament, a comma, it rains all the time, then absolutely... I'm sorry, there's no way. Institutes investigating media objectivity. He's at the National Council Department. We talked about this with Mrs Teresa Bochwic, or actually the surveillance team. This team generally deals with issues related to commercial communications They are investigating whether something is too loud, whether there is prohibited content, etc. As far as the monitoring of television programs is concerned, such studies are carried out as much as possible, but they are not continuous Yesterday, on the website of the National Radio and Television Council, I noticed a public announcement about a tender concerning the examination of contents of probably information programs of the Polish Television... I'm not getting into this bidding, so I wasn't really interested. Anyway, it's certainly the analysis that's being done. An analysis of the course of the presidential campaign, the parliamentary campaign last year, commissioned by the National Council of Radiophony and Television was carried out by the University of Warsaw, but none of the members of the National Council nor any of the National Council's employees participated in this work. They just took the job away, they accepted the presentation. So it seems that... There is obviously the Media Monitoring Institute and other such organizations that do such things, but monitor continuously, at least these 180 television stations broadcasting in Polish and all their programs, simply cannot be. The National Council, as you know very well, generally responds to complaints. If an action is brought, it shall be dealt with, it shall be given an opinion, possibly a penalty, including a financial penalty. Yeah, that's... It is imposed in the sense: The National Radio and Television Council imposes it. Such a monitoring system today at 100% It would be useful, because what you're sipping from TV sets, computer screens, etc. has a gigantic impact especially on the young generation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Senator Antoni Szymanski will ask you a question. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll ask you a question, Marshal, if you don't mind. After Mr Jackowski's presentation, I had the impression that we had adopted a convention that candidates would not be asked. Because the candidate has been responding very widely for an hour... I think it would be good... I would also like to ask you a question, Mrs Teresa Bochwic, if your marshal will allow it. May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u64	Of course. [[Thank you very much.]] Yes. I wanted to suggest that when the questions to the president are over. Do any of you have a question for Mrs. Teresa Bochwic? I understand the questions for the president are over. Yes? Because I don't see any calls. Yes, thank you very much. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Daszczyński: Can I have two more words, Mrs. Marshal?]] But two words. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u65	Two words, yes. First of all, I would like to thank you for your patience and I would like to thank the senators who signed the request to consider my candidacy for the National Council of Radio and Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand there are no more questions for you. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council Janusz Daszczyński: Thank you very much.]] Are there any questions for Mrs Teresa Bochwic? They're here. Good. I'm very cordially inviting you here. Senator Antoni Szymanski reporting. Yes? And Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome. The first question you ask is Senator Antoni Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The previous candidate concluded his statement on the issue of monitoring and its importance. I would also like to ask you how you see the importance of an external body that would evaluate the work of the media and thus help the media. After all, we all have a hunger for objective information, a high culture in the media. So do you think such a body is needed? How could it work? And what is your experience in this area, seen by the prism of this report that you are talking about, Senator Żaryn, and which you have developed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u68	And Senator Rafał the locksmith. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ma'am! That will be the same question I asked my predecessor. I just want to feel something right away. When we talk about people with disabilities, we get a picture of a person in a wheelchair, but they're also blind people, they're deaf people, they're sometimes people with mental disorders. Don't tell me you haven't seen any of the different cabaret scenes that mocked this disability, but there are plenty of them. I would really like to encourage you to look at the TV screen through the eyes of such people. This is a very sad case. I often watch TV shows in the company of such people and am ashamed of those who produce and release these programs. Would you like to pay attention to these things? And what tools will you use? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u70	You're still Professor Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u71	I would like to go back to my question, but this time, not about the report, but about how you as a journalist on the one hand, and on the other hand, the scientist who examines the media perceives this last period when it comes to the functioning of Polish Television. In your confrontation with this report, do you see any signs of improvement, or examples of the repetition of the same mistakes that were made during the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL? Where are the similarities, and where are they, in this case above all in the assessment of the scientist, visible differences?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u73	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly to the senators who signed up for me, as well as to those who voted for me in committee. Thank you very much. I listened with interest to the presentation of my competitor, Mr Janusz Daszczyński, although I must admit that for a while I was wondering if we were sometimes in the situation of choosing the president of television. He's actually a great expert. I remember well... I watched TV programs many times when Mr. Daszczyński was his boss. I would very much like to see you in a similar position, on Polish Television, or... It was actually a great TV. I would like one more sentence to refer to what you said about the ratings of the news a little bit. If, for many years, the ratings of the Polish Television have been viewed, it can be seen that during election periods there are always very large peaks, increases in ratings. Congratulations on how you had it at the time, because that's when you were president. And first because of the presidential election, there was one spades, and then the other, a big one, because of the parliamentary elections. That's the first thing I said before I went to answer the questions. I do now. I am indeed the author of the report on the dangers of freedom of speech in Poland, and it was mentioned as Senator Żaryn very nicely summarized. I don't think such words were even there, but this summary seems crazy accurate to me that to some extent the media, not only public, but unfortunately also public, were involved in some public manipulations. Of course, I say it in one sentence, and the report is about 80 pages or 100 pages, and everyone can get to know it. And now, about what the remedy is for all of this... It is often said that there is no specific mission of public media, and it is also said that it is not known whether private media have any mission at all. Well, I think it's enough to settle this, reading the Radio and Television Act. This law, which has been governing our media and the National Council since 1993, also regulates the activities of the National Radio and Television Council. As well as the European directives. Art. 6th Act says that the National Council is defending freedom of expression on radio and television I'm reading it in a nutshell. The public's interests and interests also ensure the open and pluralistic character of radiophony and television. On the other hand, the 2010 European Union Directive states that media literacy includes ability, knowledge and judgment enabling consumers to make effective and secure use of the media. And people who are able to make informed choices and are aware of the nature of content and services can do so. In addition, there is quite a large section on the public service remit in the State Aid Directive. This mission is primarily the protection against hatred, discrimination, the protection of the disabled in such a way that the message is clear to them and that they are also not subject to any acts of hatred and discrimination, and Well, that may be less relevant in the context of these questions. The promotion of European audiovisual works is very important from a financial point of view. And this is to satisfy the democratic, social and cultural needs of every society. With regard to monitoring, the Directive says: "It is desirable to monitor the performance of public services by the competent authority or to set up a body for this purpose in a transparent and effective manner, and supervision should be carried out by an entity which is indeed independent of the management of the public service broadcaster.' For many years, the National Radio and Television Council had a monitoring department that actually monitored selected programmes. Monitoring everything is unnecessary, unrealistic and pointless. It is important to monitor those programmes that actually influence public opinion, i.e. those that enjoy high ratings or audiences, are broadcast in good bands, listened to, watched, and involve such individuals, such as journalists, who provide popularity. In my opinion, it is necessary to return to this monitoring and the National Council as a body independent of all broadcasters, both private and public, is an excellent place to develop this activity. This activity is extremely necessary, activity at a good level, at a scientific level, which assumes that not only experienced practitioners will be involved, which is also very important, but also those who are educated scientifically, professors and university bodies. Here I have the names of several people who do this professionally: Professor Krzysztof Gurba from Krakow, Dr Kononowicz, Dr. Gackowski Which, in fact, has a private media monitoring institute, but since it's private, you could, say, invite him as a collaborator, a scientist. Marek Kochan and Dr. Marek Kochan; there are various people from different sides of the political scene, associated or unrecognized. The scientist is a scientist, so he doesn't have to say so... At work, he postpones his views, although he probably has them. I, of course, threw a few names like this, for example, it could be a lot of other people. I think that this section of the National Council should be strongly strengthened. It can't just be a commercial message, although it's also very important... This cannot just be monitoring commercial communications, it must also be monitoring content. Mr Janusz Daszczyński has done a very good thing on TV for these six months, namely a little limited tabloidisation of television news, and he succeeded. Those horrible, weepy, tearful stories about some lady whose roof broke or something. I don't want to further develop this subject. We all watched it and it was sometimes unbearable, but there was an opinion on the previous TV executive that people liked it. And you noticed that when you reduced that tabloidization, the ratings were just increasing. Although this was the electoral period and the ratings may have increased partly because of this and partly because of the limitation of tabloidisation. But reducing tabloidization is very important, not just in the news. It is an important social task at all, and I think that media-oriented monitoring, both private and public, should look very closely at tabloidisation, because it is bringing the viewer, the listener too, of course, but we are talking about audiovisual media here. To the lower and lower levels. I believe that public media, at least public media, should serve to make people grow and not fall. If man grows, he knows more and more, he is more and more entertained by entertainment, he is also more and more educated, more and more aware of the complex contemporary society as well as democratic mechanisms. It's true, isn't it? And television didn't even tell us how to vote, which, for example, is very important in the case of local elections, because these are complicated things. It's not like there's one candidate, no, there's a couple of candidates, and you pick one person. These are important things and it is essential for society to receive relevant information from the media, especially from public media. However, it is not only about public media, because of course private media also have such tasks, or at least part of such tasks, although tabloidisation is, of course, allowed to a much greater extent. However, I consider this to be a very important problem, which is precisely linked to the issue of monitoring. All of this brings us closer to better solutions: just a decent, extensive, scientifically placed media monitoring. He has another very important role that is often forgotten, and which has been brought to my attention by the marshal at the committee meeting during the committee meeting. This is about journalists. How are journalists supposed to function when the sender requires them to manipulate, break the principles of journalistic ethics cards, which are several? Not everyone signed it, but most of the TV signed it. The biggest TVs have signed the Ethical Charter of the Media in terms of impartiality, reliability, balance, etc. There are many points mentioned there, above all the point concerning the principle of truth. Both private and public media are tasked with information, i.e. passing on the truth, the truth about the facts at least. As far as the last period on TV is concerned, this is the time period I would say Storm and pressure. I am very pleased that the transitional period has ended, that this transitional law has expired, because now the State in the Seym, in the Senate, will be able to Yeah, I think so. To further address the situation in public media. As to whether things are better or worse, I would like to mention the example I mentioned at the committee meeting. The people who were at the Senate committee, please be patient, I'll cut it short. On 13 December last year, a big march took place. Public television, this Mr. Daszczyński, reported in the news that 15 and 80 thousand people were involved. No police estimate has been provided. The parties to the dispute had different estimates of this march. A commentator, one former Member of the Civic Platform, was then invited to public television after the news. Well, if we're talking about impartiality, integrity, balance and that sort of thing... This is, of course, just one example. I am not saying that this has been the case all the time, but this is a very significant example. Who do we see in the press programs today? We see three or four people on each side of the political scene. These programs can be better, they can be worse. There are various situations and many situations can be criticised. However, in my opinion, when it comes to balance, there is no comparison in favour of today's television. But television is not the only medium that the National Radio and Television Council deals with. My horse has always been a radio that's been my place of work for at least 13 years. In this presented résumé I probably missed a long period of cooperation with Polish Radio... Radio is most interested in me. One can add that the radio has never been as bad as television, but the radio has also developed a lot, information and publicity has improved on the radio. Such examples could be given in many ways. I think you have a variety of ways to get to them. Besides, I think real surveillance is important. I don't want to repeat myself anymore, but I'm going to say that it's important to study even certain sections of the show, certain hours. That's when it's valid. Two days when someone was watching something and something wasn't right for him, they're practically meaningless. Speaking of journalists... the pressure of publishers or broadcasters to manipulate, to conceal the truth, to corrupt journalists. I consider this to be a actually existing quite serious social problem, of course environmental, but given the strength of the destruction of journalists, especially television and radio, it must be acknowledged that this is a real problem. This is indeed the direction I see in the case of the National Council, in which I hope to find myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u74	Thank you very much. The question is Professor Michał Seweryński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u75	Ma'am, I'd like your opinion on the advertising of drugs, paraplegics and other measures, supposedly miraculous, on television, without any responsibility. If you don't count this quickly recited, consult your doctor or pharmacist. Do you think that public television should be part of a machinery that drives the pharmaceutical market, or should it be a place for education on medicines and reliable information for which television should be responsible? At the moment, everyone can buy advertising and advertise anything they like, and TV collects money and says they're not responsible. Do you think there should be a change in this matter? And can it be changed? [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Certainly...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u76	Wait a minute, Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u77	Ma'am, I ask you to answer the question that I have asked before: do you think that television, public media, television and the radio you mentioned are able to cope with the statutory and other tasks you have spoken of in the long-term financial drought and in the absence of solutions in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u78	Well, I can say that both questions can be answered in general in this way: it is up to you in Parliament to regulate what needs to be regulated. And surely there are very urgent matters to be settled. I am very concerned that the matter of the audiovisual fee fell out of the National Media Act. I read the directive exactly... Because this has gone to the European Union and this is supposed to last for a year and a half, etc. Anyway, I read the State Aid Directive in detail, and I found that it was there. extremely voluntary, i.e. the Commission evaluates, can evaluate, can approve, not approve, etc., so that it is not quite clear what the Commission can do on this matter. It has a great deal of room to maneuver, which means that we need to negotiate well, and this, of course, belongs to those who are negotiating. Wait till I get lost. Medication in advertising is definitely a matter for regulation too. In addition, this is partly regulated. In my opinion, public media... I'm sorry, I'm gonna get back to a situation. For two or three years in the association of journalists, we prepared a draft law on public media. There was... Besides, I think it even entered the first project, which in January or February was promoted by the Ministry of Culture. I'm talking about a total ban on advertising in public media. It's not a good solution, a total ban is not possible. Let's say this: it doesn't seem possible. But I'm sure television or public radio can't hide from the fact that they're good for anything. If fairies started to promote their services through advertising on public television Although for fairies, it may be a little too expensive. I would be in favour, however, of not accepting such advertisements and not letting them go to the public. So the drugs in the commercial are It's a very thin case. As I said, it is up to you to regulate this once and for all, so that it is quite clear. This can also be done in such a way that they are a little discouraged, e.g. by restricting them. emission time in less popular bands. It was one of the ideas contained in the projects in which I worked together. If they are advertising-free bands and they are unfortunately the best bands from a financial point of view... But then it won't be so appealing to those... In short, there are many ways to limit it, which requires goodwill. When I hear an advertisement encouraging the use of deodorant, which stops the whole body from sweating for a week, I think that just the person who invented it should already go to the hospital on Sobieski, not spread similar nonsense, dangerous nonsense. If that's true, and I hope that's a lie... But then she shouldn't have... [[What about the person who takes that commercial?]] It must be regulated, it must have rules of procedure and the rules must be governed by law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Florek and then Marshal Adam Bielan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I will return to this 2011 report. 'Cause you said Yeah, pretty much. That the media manipulated the audience. And I'd like you to update this report a little bit. It was 2011. What if you were to pass? Shortly by 2016, would you in this report be Did you write it yourself, or would you have made a difference? And second question. Does media manipulation affect ratings? I'm curious about that, too. [[A candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: For ratings?]] It's for ratings. Thank you. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: No...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u81	In a minute. You're still Marshal Adam Bielan. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Yes, I'm sorry.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u82	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'd like to ask you about the problem of advertising for children. We know that on the one hand these advertisements make the offer, when it comes to channels for children, richer, these channels are just more, they can sustain themselves, but on the other hand, children are not yet aware of consumers and are not mentally mature enough not to give in to the various manipulation techniques that advertising uses, and this causes various educational problems. What's your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u83	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u84	My opinion is that children should be completely protected from advertising, including the ban on children in advertising, the presence of parents in advertising. It is quite awkward wording in the bill, because it is said that parents and teachers do not because they affect children, but there are added words and other people. Well, other people are the whole world. This is a good point, other people also affect children, because grandparents affect children, neighbors affect children, people who meet on holidays affect children, other children also affect children. It just has to be forbidden. That's what I think. Does manipulation affect ratings? Well, it probably sometimes affects if you get used to the recipient, for example. Some direction of thought is particularly promoted. And people like different directions. We see quite a clear social division. I suppose it could also be referred to the audience and audience of various media, which are more or less conducive to one of the policy options and where topics particularly focused in the respective circles can be encountered. As far as public media are concerned, I believe that they should, however, refer to all sides of the political scene. And I have the impression, given the incredible number of shows I've been watching and listening to lately, with the Modern, Kukiz, 15 and other such small parties, the Party together, somebody else... I've never seen so many people on all sides of the political scene, even on previous televisions. [[Thank you very much...]] [[We're still updating the report. If you'd updated this 2011 report...]] Sir, the conclusions of the report were based on data from 2010 and 2011. Of course, we would just have to examine it thoroughly, monitor it, and make a new report. There's no way to extrapolate the results of anything for a period of five years later.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u85	Thank you very much. The question you ask is Marshal Maria Panczyk-Podziej. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I share your opinion. It's not because I've been connected to the radio for almost half a century. That the radio was and is the medium that represents a much higher intellectual level and, I would say, educational because it only affects hearing. In order to prevent the tabloidisation of radio and television, I have been calling for many years to thicken the recruitment screen into the journalistic profession. There may be different ways. First of all, I think that candidates could be consulted e.g. by people with high moral qualifications. Could the National Radiophony Council take on the designation of suitable candidates for the journalistic profession in order to somehow save the ethos of this profession? 'Cause right now, unfortunately, he's going down, at an alarming rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u87	You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u88	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Doctor, I have a question about the appalling German mini-series, our mothers, our fathers. There was a protest of the Polish embassy in Berlin, but this series was still aired in the Polish Television. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u89	Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u90	So, yes, the ethos of the journalist's profession... I agree with you, Marshal, that the ethos of the journalist's profession are failing, not because morally poor people get there, just because many journalists often... We see it in the association of journalists, we have a Press Freedom Monitoring Centre that monitors the persecution of journalists, not the monitoring of texts or production, and the feud of journalists... We see journalists being broken and corrupted by media owners by broadcasters. This is a very serious problem and in the monitoring centre you will find a lot of material on this subject, often detailed, sometimes controversial, or maintain some criminal paragraphs for... The association of journalists is in favour of abolishing sanctions against journalists for their production. If someone gets offended, they can file a civil suit. First of all, there should be a dam to break journalists and corrupt them. I do not see the possibility that the National Council should issue any moral certificates to journalists or appropriate preparations in any respect. Journalists find themselves in two ways Either they finish various schools, workshops, etc., or they follow the road: the apprentice and the master. This is a very good road, but provided that the journalist already has a general education. Of course, there are self-born talents, people who make perfect movies or write, although they have little... in any case, no higher education. It seems to me that it would be good to accept the principle that they should be people with higher education or students of any higher year of study, having a lot of workshop practice. But first of all, there has to be this morality, so to speak, this fish has to have a head, and the head has to have its rules, it has to have... Those who run the media, the different stations, the same applies to the press. They must have clear statutory limitations and requirements, and surely there must be a body that ensures that it is respected. As for our mothers, our fathers, I believe that... Well, right now there's a case in court about the broadcast of this program on public television. I would be in favour if other very controversial films were being broadcast, and that would be one of many different films if they were broadcasted... Well, the subject matter is very broad. But it was the only film released at the time, he was very poorly framed in the discussion, very poorly commented, so in this respect... I think that this process, which is currently taking place, should have been brought up by then, and there would be no discussion at all as to whether a film which is covered by the process of the Polish State against the producer could be broadcast in public media at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u91	Thank you very much. Now you ask Senator Kazimierz Wind and then Senator Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u92	Welcome. I have a question for you... We had a chance to work together on a report like this... [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Ah, yes, yes.]] ...about the situation of Polish families. There was a big chapter on the media and media influence on the family. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Yes. I wrote it. Yes.]] So there's a question about the family... [[Candidate for Member of the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: But that was, like, 20 years ago, maybe 15.]] Almost, 1998. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Almost 20 years.]] So family problems. We know that this is not only a question of 500+, that this is also a significant role for the media when it comes to raising young people. So the question is how to reconcile values here, promote a good family with an attractive form. We know that this is a great need for today. Time gallops, customs change, mental changes follow. How do you see these problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u93	Professor Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u94	I can't not ask that question, because I'm also a historian, not just a senator. How do you see public media in the role of one of the many actors who can 'cause they have such instruments to deal with the promotion of Polish history and also to perform an educational role? I separate these two issues in the sense that the educational function is more addressed to the interior, to the national community, and the promotional function is among others. often very hard bargaining with other televisions so that packages are introduced on Polish television, including more or less smart TV series, e.g. German production... Today you can see how many of these products of German TV... [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: But not only.]] I'm not saying it's just that. I say, for example. Theirs, by the way, is getting more and more, so I'm picking it up... [[Question, question.]] Yeah, I'm on my way to the question. Do you see the role of public television to strengthen negotiations with the most important televisions of Europe or the United States, so that it can enter that market strongly with the promotion of Polish history? And how do you imagine that? Of course, you can also refer to the question of Senator Czerwinski.... Because it was then, in this case, that this was not done, only that there was an exceptionally visible dependence of the Polish side towards the German side.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u95	Yeah, you just have to make good movies. Television has movie production agencies or whatever it's called right now... because it's changing and transforming. And he's got a lot of money. Even though he doesn't have enough money, he's got a lot of money for film production. And nothing affects public opinion as well, including the world's, as well made film, also historical. ♪ We're gonna wash up ♪ ♪ Or at least I'm ♪ Of course, I'm not talking about historians. They learned a lot about the Civil War in America from such a tapeworm, perhaps there were 12 hourly or longer movies, War and Love, or something like that... It's just very interesting, well and realistic. I'm saying it in quotes. The history of the Civil War was presented. Because a man, especially a modern man, and especially a young man of contemporary thought with pictures. Right? Nobody reads anymore today. Just look at the textbooks from 40 years ago and today, when there are such wonderful textbooks, full of pictures, frames, divisions, distracting. Right? I think if I had these textbooks, I'd be much better prepared to live in my own time. Much better would be my initial education and probably my entire generation. They're so... I would give a different example than these German disputes, because historical education is possible in very different fields and it is certainly not just about sensitive Polish-German history and various side issues. Well, about 20 years ago, it was broadcast... Poland bought a film then It was probably shown on TV. Who talked about Einstein and Maria Curie-Skłodowska. In this film Maria Curie-Skłodowska was a girl from the south of France who, on a train in India, fell in love with 17-year-old Einstein. Then they got off that train and had some crazy adventures. I believe that such films simply qualify for trial. I think Maria Curie-Skłodowska is a great Polish brand. It is a wonderful Polish name, which means great success. I think he's the only person in the world who got the 2nd Nobel Prize from this top scientific shelf. And this was achieved when women were sometimes not even allowed to study. So this movie is outrageous, and absolutely no one reacted to it. Well, I think today maybe we would've responded to that. I am of the opinion that, firstly, public television, and secondly, the National Radio and Television Council or various other... I think, for example. today's MFA would be able to say that, to pay attention to whoever bought this film, or even to whoever made it. It's hard to tell how to do it in practice. I don't know how to say it. But there are definitely ways of doing things. As far as Polish-German matters are concerned, we can already see very well on this issue... not yet satisfactory, but very good forward steps. Last year, I suppose. In recent years, German media has written 150 times... Well, so many times the Foreign Office intervened in German or European media, in which the name of Polish concentration camps was mentioned. As far as I know, she's been replaced three times over the last six months, and every time she gets a trial. I think it's just... The process is, of course, a very sharp move, but it is not the first step. Right? First, you draw attention to someone, then you negotiate with them, then you have some more conversations with them, and if it doesn't help, then unfortunately, the process can also be involved. God's weapons are not encouraged to bring the trials to everyone and everywhere, to the right and to the left, but this must be taken into account. I think this case has been very neglected for the last 25 years. When I read the MFA's responses to all sorts of stunts eight and 10 years ago, it really was a little mouse squeak that had a big... A few times a year, somebody screamed that we were very uncomfortable and so on. No, it's not that it's unpleasant. It's just that we can't be... I do not agree that Poland should assume responsibility for the Second World War, for the Holocaust and for such events, because we do not assume this responsibility as a invaded state, nor as a state which at that time was an underground state. I think we're on a better path right now. As far as the various content that you were talking about in connection with this report 18 years ago is concerned, the family report prepared by Prime Minister Buzek's government, I actually wrote him a chapter on the media as well as the chapter on women. Yeah, I think I wrote two chapters. Well, I think that German TV, to which I have many different reservations, but which is also undoubtedly professional Although her reporters on the flight understand too much, what their government would want, even when the government doesn't open its mouth... On this television, so-called. diversity, i.e. various content related to so-called. sexual minorities, family issues, multiple communes, and weird ones from our point of view... I suppose it's from my point of view and from your point of view. Yeah, I guess so. This type of subject is shown at 11:00 a.m., 12:00 a.m. It is completely unavailable for children and adolescents. These are adult games. We can be very sorry that grownups are having a bad time, but they're adults, so unless they're out of line... In today's Europe, I think it's completely unrealistic to expect such things to get infected, and I don't think anyone has the same intentions, but there are always ways to limit access to this for minors. In addition, the European directives stress insanely strongly that the protection of minors is very important. The ability to judge, know and judge what things can harm the family... It just so happens that this is all in the 2010 Directive, Directive No 13. So that even from this point of view... They're perfect too. That's what they see. It is not that this terrible Union consists only of those masters who sometimes see us on television and who yell at us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u96	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people willing to ask questions. Thank you very much. [[Candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Yet you...]] [[I have a question for you.]] You're gonna be okay, aren't you? Senator Silence, right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, are you pulling out of the question or are you asking them? [[I have a quick question.]] You're asking? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u97	How do you assess the implementation of valuable late-night programmes, but the broadcasting of programmes of not necessarily the highest quality, such as those of a folk nature, during the period of highest ratings? [[A candidate for the National Radio and Television Council of Teresa Bochwic: Well, a man must...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u98	Does anyone else have a question? No. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u99	A man must also have fun. If there are several programs, if there are different TV channels, then one can have fun in cabaret. Of course, it should be a cabaret on a level, one that is worth showing to the general public.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u100	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I thank both candidates for giving explanations and answers to senators' questions. I would like to inform you that the vote on this issue will be held after a short technical interruption. I'm calling a five-minute recess until 11:07 p.m. After the break, there will be a vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 02 to 11 minutes 07]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u101	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Resume the session! We would like to return to agenda item 18: appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. We proceed with a secret vote on the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by a secret absolute majority vote in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the following secretaries: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The card can be placed next to at least one name. The card on which more than one mark is placed shall be treated as a void voice. The ballot card shall be valid if one mark is placed on it. If there's no sign of.x.. The senator may abstain or be against all candidates. Then he leaves the card empty and doesn't put any mark on it. Leaving an empty grille with a given name means objecting or abstaining from voting in the case of a given candidacy. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urns. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. So I ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots, and the senators to fill out the ballots. Did all the senators receive the ballots? I take it you do. I ask Senator Mark to read the names of the senators sequentially. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to put in the ballot box filled with secret ballots. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u102	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u103	Have all the senators received ballots... i.e. They got it and they threw it in... I'm sorry. Have all the senators voted? Yes. Thank you very much. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 11:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 14 to 11 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to agenda item 18: appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. Protocol of the secret ballot of 22 July 2016 on the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a secret ballot Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki They state that 81 votes were cast in a secret vote on the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council, including 81 valid votes. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 41. 57 senators voted in favour of Teresa Bochwic's candidacy, 24 senators voted in favour of Janusz Rajmund Daszczyński's candidacy. The absolute number of votes required was given to Mrs Teresa Bochwic. [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council. The Senate appointed Ms Teresa Bochwic as part of the National Radio and Television Council. Congratulations, ma'am. I'd like to give you a resolution. You're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u104	Thank you all very much for your patience with what I said. I'll do my best to fulfill my role.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u105	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u106	We begin to consider item 17 of the agenda: Report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2015 together with Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2015. The text of the report is contained in print No 139 and the report of the Committee on Culture and Media In print No 139 S. I would like to welcome the President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Jan Dworak, to the Senate meeting. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask the President to take the floor and present the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u107	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! National Radio and Television Council In the composition: Witold Graboś, Krzysztof Luft, Stefan Pastuszka, Sławomir Rogowski and Jan Dworak It started work on 4 August 2010. The 2015 activity report covers the last year of our six-year term of office. The period of the first half of this year will be formally taken into account in the report already discussed by the next president, and it is the six-monthly burdened with media events and this is the current National Council that should assess them. For these reasons, I will discuss matters in a broader context than usual. Together with the report, the National Council, as always, provides information on the fundamental problems of radio and television. It is an important addition to the report describing the state of the audiovisual market in Poland in 2015 against the background of neighbouring markets, the internet, the telecommunications sector and the press and cinematography. Both documents were unanimously adopted by the National Radio and Television Council by a resolution of 8 March this year. The 2015 activity report shall include information on the performance of the statutory tasks of the National Radio and Television Council. Developing a constitutional standard with Article. 213, which is just talking about the tasks of the National Council, can be presented in several points. These include the availability, diversity and independence of the media, equal competition of broadcasters, the protection of children and young people in particular and the proper spending of public money both by public media and by the National Council itself in the budgetary law regime. The consistent building of a competitive and accessible electronic media market to consumers is one of the main tasks of the National Council, which implements it through an informed concession policy. In recent years, television audiences have received an extended and varied set of programmes. They can be accessed in various ways: via satellite platforms, cable, and recently via ground-based digital multiplexes, along with the latest offer of the eighth multiplex, as well as via Internet TV and on-demand services, which are developing very dynamically. Polish Radio started a difficult digitalisation process during this period, which also aims to enrich the offer of the entire radio market. The National Council has worked with the various institutions to monitor and analyse the transformation of electronic media. 3 main areas of such work can be distinguished. The first one is REFIT. In preparing for the revision of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the European Commission has initiated legal work. At European level, two organisations, of which Poland is a member, represented by representatives of the National Council, were involved in this work. These are the European Platform of Regulators, the EPRA, which Poland co-founded 20 years ago, and the European Group of Regulators for Audiovisual Media Services, ERGA, established by the European Commission in 2013. It acts as a high-level group, bringing together the leaders of the audiovisual regulators. I was vice-president of this group until the end of last year. The main tasks of the group of ERGA regulators were to carry out a programme of regulatory efficiency and efficiency of the existing audiovisual directive in the last year, so-called. REFIT. 2 months ago, on 25 May, the European Commission published a draft amendment to the Audiovisual Directive, i.e. this right, which also applies to the media in Poland under the national legal system. The changes concern several key areas of media operation: the extension of regulatory powers to providers of audiovisual file sharing platforms, the protection of minors, procedures for the effective control of delocalised programmes, the promotion of European programmes and changes in the provision of commercial communications, i.e. Simply put. . Changes in advertising and product placement, mainly advertising. The European Commission has noticed and I would like to emphasise this. The increased role of regulators. The revision of the Directive strengthens the position and independence of regulators at national level and integrates ERGA, i.e. this organisation of regulators, into the institutional order of the European institutions. The National Council of Radiophony and Television together with representatives of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage prepared Poland's positions on specific issues under review by REFIT. The second area of project work was related to the analysis of the current national media law system resulting from the practice of the National Council. The de lege ferenda, prepared on the basis of many years of experience, generally aims at simplifying concession procedures and creating more favourable conditions for local and civic media. The previous government took account of de lege ferenda's records, including through the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage a draft of amendments to the list of work of the Council of Ministers. Further work on the project has been stopped due to the calendar of the parliamentary election campaign. In the opinion of the National Council, this proposal should return to the legislative path as soon as possible, since the solutions contained there serve the interests of the public, the functioning of the market and take into account the benefits of the development of transmission techniques. The third area of project work was linked to the need to fully implement the State aid rules in the financing of public media. The 2008 TVN complaint takes place in the European Commission, in the Competition DG. The case conducted on the Polish side by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the National Council of Radiophony and Television has resulted in a project that complies with the requirements and recommendations of the European Commission, inter alia, as regards the clarification of the concept of public service mission, the establishment of rules for supervision and the clearance of public funds. The consultation took place since March 2013 on an agreed timetable and is now in the final phase. His further fate depends on the conclusion of the talks, which has not yet happened. The National Council encourages the current government to continue this process of notification of public aid because, regardless of sealing the subscription fee or introducing a new audiovisual fee in the near future, the principle of public aid will not change substantially and this issue will not disappear from the European Commission's agenda. This area is connected with the work undertaken by the National Council in order to better supervise the public media's spending of social money from the subscription. The revised Act on Radiophony and Television on 6 August 2010 introduced a new mechanism for planning and clearing public service missions. The appropriations shall be allocated to specific statutory sentences for the implementation of the mission. Public broadcasters shall draw up annual financial and programme plans, taking into account the operating and development costs of companies in these plans. Several years of achievements of the National Radio and Television Council and its offices in the construction together with broadcasters of the system of financial and programme agreements should also be developed in the following years. It makes it possible to significantly enrich the programme of broadcasters with programmes to meet the important needs of a democratic society. In parallel with the implementation of the financial and programme agreements, work has been undertaken by the National Council to prepare a new model for financing public media. As a result of this work, several detailed expert analyses were created and a new model for the functioning of public media in Poland was developed on the basis of them. This is the first time that has been comprehensively welcomed by the financing of public media, together with other documents presented to the Prime Minister and the ministers of the current government. The government's representative for the preparation of public radio and television reform received complete documentation of analyses and estimates, which were the basis for the development of a new model, and the model itself was presented during the discussions of the working group at the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, the multi-monthly work of experts and the National Council was rejected in one sentence without a substantive justification. For unknown reasons, this model was not analysed by so-called authors. The meter bill. However, the work on this counter law has been abandoned by the initiators, i.e. Members of the Law and Justice. The official reason is the necessity notification of this to the European Commission. It must be said that, in fact, this system contained many shortcomings, was prepared without economic and legal analysis. Today, when it is said that a new system for financing public media is being re-examined, it is worth recalling the advantages of the model developed in the National Radio and Television Council. The state register is the most reliable and easiest to obtain the source of reference state resources and the most efficient collection apparatus is the services of the Minister of Finance. Individual nature of the contribution. The concept of household is legally difficult to define in the current system, and the best thing is to identify the payer as the person who obtains the taxable income. The funds from the audiovisual contribution would be transferred by the services of the Minister of Finance directly to the account of the National Council in order to maintain the independence of the financing of public media. We also assumed the creation of a quality fund, i.e. the promotion of valuable undertakings carried out by commercial operators, which would be possible if, during a given period, justified needs of public media They'd be satisfied. The system, as outlined here mostly, generates the lowest transaction costs, also uses a specialised state apparatus, not market operators such as electricity suppliers, which need to be paid commercially. The only entity to be involved is the apparatus of the Ministry of Finance. In view of the projected prospect of integrating the various public danins in the near future and downloading them by the fiscal apparatus, the prospect of including tributes in the public media in this system is all the more justified. We therefore fully support the proposal made in the National Council as the most appropriate model for financing public media. The current financing model is also linked to the system for processing applications for redemption or distribution of late subscription fees into instalments. Between 2010 and 2015, almost half a million letters were received by the National Council, exactly 490,000, in the case of the subscribers. Currently, nearly 230 000 letters are still pending; proceedings are pending at the Office of the National Council, which does not have field offices. This is a serious social problem, which we have repeatedly informed the Sejm and the Senate about by organizing, among others. Special meeting of parliamentarians at our headquarters on Sobieskiego Street. This is a particularly vulnerable system for the elderly and the poorest. The Act of 6 August 2010 introduced the principle of open, open competitions for members of supervisory boards and public media boards. Candidates had to be submitted to the supervisory boards by the colleges of universities. The organisation of the first competition was consulted with representatives of non-governmental associations and organisations, and in 2011 the first process of setting up supervisory boards under the new rules was carried out. In 2014, after the expiry of the three-year term of office, the National Council set up further compositions of supervisory boards; they started operating in mid-2014 after general meetings in companies. In the light of recent staff changes in the last half of the year, it is worth to understand a few data on the advice that were created in the contest mode. In the structure of education, the most numerous groups were those with economic and legal education. Fifty out of 99 people, who were members of all supervisory boards, had a higher degree than a master's degree, there were 9 professors, 14 habilitated doctors, 27 doctors. These are such dry statistics which, however, speak about a certain level of education and the way these councils acted. 65 members of supervisory boards were academic and teaching staff of universities or persons with different functions at universities, including rector positions. In 2015, the Supervisory Boards made the selection of boards for the second time. In accordance with the recommendation of the National Council, the supervisory boards of all regional Polish Radio companies appointed 1-person boards. The supervisory boards of the Polish Television and Polish Radio submitted proposals for the establishment of 3-person boards. The National Council, following an analysis of the competition procedure, adopted a resolution on the appointment of only the President of the Board of Polish Television, and it was Janusz Daszczyński that I mentioned his name, because he had just appeared here before the High Chamber. Only in the Polish Radio a 2-person board was appointed. It is important that the stabilization of management work, after the chaos period in 2006 and 2010, this stabilization of management work in 2010 and 2015 brought fruit. Thanks to the restructuring activity, the cost of missionary activity in television decreased by 200 million during this period, from over 1 billion 650 million to around 1 billion 400 million, and the financial result changed from 219 million to 6 million in 2012 on a plus in 2014. The reduction in operating costs and the increase in revenues from the subscription resulted in the level of missionary activity costs of the Polish Television being close to the level before 2008, when there was a significant loss of subscription revenue. In the Polish Radio in 2011, there was a loss of almost PLN 8.5 million, but since then the company ended each year with a positive financial result. In 2015, despite the budgetary burden on technological change due to the introduction of DAB+ technology, the company also recorded a positive result, almost PLN 6.5 million. In 17 regional radio companies in recent years the financial condition has been stabilized. Most of them ended a year with positive financial results and those who had lost had measures to ensure that current liabilities were settled on a timely basis. It is worth noting that in companies that were close to the optimal level of funding from the subscription, so in radiophony, the level of mission of the program has increased significantly, the participation of the word in the program has significantly increased, and expensive but noblest species have arrived, absent from commercial broadcasters such as radio reports and radio broadcasts. At times, they were outstanding soundtracks. All companies have also been effectively implementing measures to reduce operating costs over recent years, including: reducing unnecessary employment. The National Council also considered that it was not in line with democratic standards for active politicians to serve as public media authorities, especially those whose mandate comes from choice. The competent authority in which representatives of political groups are legally and even expected to participate shall be the Programme Councils. It should therefore be stressed that there were no persons in the supervisory boards set up in the second competition combining public policy practice with work or media supervision. The current parliamentary majority, a media law novel in force since 8 January, has removed the mechanisms specific to public media in Europe and introduced a model of party-state media, depending on the parliamentary majority forming the government. This model has bridged the distance required by the political power of the public media to preserve freedom of speech, information and creative independence and, more importantly, critical media functions against each authority. The system of buffers, which the Constitutional Tribunal has justified in its time, has ceased to exist. This law has led to the cancellation of all the boards and supervisory boards selected in the competitions. Many activists of the ruling Party of Law and Justice have sat in the public media authorities appointed by the Minister of Treasury. Some of them also have elected political functions in local governments. The new boards started working with massive personal changes within companies. About 100 people left the Polish Television on a wave of these changes, in a large part they were journalists, from Polish Radio Around 40, 15 presidents were released from regional radio stations at 17 competitions appointed by the National Council and 54 members of the supervisory boards at 68 competitions. The scale of exchange of authorities and journalists has no precedent in the history of public media in Poland. It caused among others. a strong drop in the level of journalisticism and bias of public media programmes, especially the Polish Television, as demonstrated by an analysis of the information programmes of the largest broadcasters, commissioned at the beginning of this year by the National Radio and Television Council. The fact that the Polish Television recently censored the speech of the President of the United States and journalistic illegibility, and even the actual manipulation of the history of the Polish road to NATO, are clear, bright and not only examples of lowering journalistic levels in the Polish Television. One such example, which is extremely clear in support of the above assessment, is also the case which Senator Jan Rulewski described in his speech to the National Radio and Television Council on the basis of his very negative experience in the presence of TVP Info. Senator Rulewski participated in a discussion on 4 June, in which he wrote: The interviewer became a secondist of one of the parties and completely lost journalistic distance and impartiality, which in the public media are a special value. Since the famous conversation between Piotr Gembarowski and Marian Krzaklewski it has been difficult to find another so meaningful example of the aggressive unilaterality of a public television journalist. During this conversation there was a violation of journalistic integrity and good manners Not to mention the painting and threat addressed to the senator by the co-conversator who did not have the right reaction from the journalist's programmer. The facts of these cases, the circumstances of their existence in the light of applicable law allow the National Radio and Television Council to use the statutory formula to refer to the sender as a legal measure which should prevent such infringements in the future. The result of mass layoffs of outstanding journalists and creators is also a decrease in the level of implementation. This decline and rash, ill-considered decisions regarding programme changes caused the flow of viewers and listeners from public media. An example is the failed attempts to restore the programming cycles from years ago, such as the "Pegaz', the "Sonda' or the "Teleranek'. Even worse are attempts to introduce new positions, such as the "Backward vision" or "YaYo" Studio, which do not enjoy the interest of the audience, and it is hard to say that they carry out whatever the public mission is understood. Finally, it should be noted that the latest law, the National Media Council Act, compared to previous proposals, has fortunately limited the scope of adverse and unthinkable changes in the public media system. The institution of the National Media Council itself, which has the power of arbitrary choice of the authorities of the media companies, takes away the competence of the Minister of the Treasury, which held them for six months, since the entry into force of the so-called "state government." a staff law that deprives the National Council of its powers to conduct competitions. The fundamental drawback of the new solution is to leave the composition of the Council to politicians only, and to a decisive extent to the politicians of the governing party, as well as to the ambiguities within the powers of the National Media Council and other corporate bodies and the owner. Public media under this law can be openly politicized, centralised and can only implement an anachronistic, paternalist type of contact with the recipient. Media experts describe public media differently, but they constantly list 3 inalienable tasks. Public media are to be a forum for unfettered public debate, while carefully and critically assessing the behaviour of the current authority and working for the cohesion of society and its institutions. It is difficult to reconcile, sometimes even competitive to each other tasks, but clearly determines the field of work and how to perform tasks for the media paid for social money. The institution led by the politicians of the ruling party is not possible to fulfil these tasks. Television Poland no longer meets them today... [[Excuse me, Mr President, but is this the 2015 report or the 2016 report?]] This is the 2015 report. [[I would like to ask you to focus on 2015. You're welcome.]] Mr. Marshal, as I said, the National Radio and Television Council... [[This is not a discussion with the marshal, it is a 2015 report. Please continue.]] I will continue, Mr. Marshal, in a manner that reflects your expectations. I hope those circumstances that I brought up at the beginning also allow me to... [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Excuse me...]] ...to refer to the events of 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u108	Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u109	Mr. Marshal, for the first time in this Senate you do not allow yourself to report freely... [[For 2015]] The usual thing is that it is possible to announce any... [[Voice from the room: How are the questions?]] ...the reports. I do not remember the situation in which it would be impossible for the representative of the institution to speak, especially since the President is still in this position, including this year. I'm just paying attention to this... Well, for me, this is the first situation I've ever met.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u110	Mr. Marshal, I'm not preventing you. I have just given the Minister the floor. I merely suggested that the report concerns 2015. Minister, please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Co-regulation and self-regulation are valued for the effectiveness and inclusion of audiovisual regulators in the environment. They are also referred to by the European Commission by proposing in the revision of the Audiovisual Directive to protect minors from content which could jeopardise their proper development through these mechanisms. The Act on Radiophony and Television from 2013 authorised the National Council to initiate and support self-regulation. On this basis, important self-regulatory acts have been prepared: the 2013 broadcasting agreement on the amenities in the television programme for visually and hearing impaired persons, a code of good practice laying down detailed rules for the protection of minors in VOD services, the 2014 agreement laying down the rules for self-regulation in the field of food advertising for children under 12 years old. This system of self-regulation of food advertising, which I mentioned just now, was honoured and recognised last October as the 2015 European Association of Advertising Standards bringing together representatives of 37 self-regulatory bodies and 16 industry organisations of advertisers, advertising agencies and media from all over Europe. I would like to add with satisfaction that with the active participation of the National Council, another agreement has just been concluded with the largest broadcasters on broadcasting with equal volume on television programmes. Its formal signature will take place in September this year. It is worth noting that it concerns not so much the same level of sound in a single sender's program What the broadcasters have already introduced - how much of the sound level is evened out by all the broadcasters who agreed to it. This will definitely increase the comfort of receiving television programmes. Since 2013, terrestrial television has switched to a digital broadcasting system, which has significantly increased the number of programmes available to all audiences. The National Council has designed a comprehensive and balanced programme offer on multiplexes. During the reporting year, the work of the National Council was linked to a competition run by the President of UKE for the development of the 8th multiplex, which will soon enrich the publicly available programme offer. The National Council has allocated 3 seats to the public broadcaster on this multiplex. Unfortunately, the current management has not been able to obtain information on how these places are to be used so far. The National Council also set out the programme conditions for the market and, following the competition, awarded concessions to the following entities. The concession for the universal distribution of the program, in which at least 30% of the broadcasting time will be devoted to feature films, series and entertainment programmes, was awarded to TV Spectrum for the New TV programme. The concession to distribute a universal program presenting current events, including programmes on the idea of self-government and the functioning of local communities, the National Council granted Cable Television Networks to Zoom Television or Zoom TV. Well, despite the English sounding name it is an agreement of Polish cable broadcasters. Green Content for the Metro TV programme has been awarded a universal concession which includes programmes on healthy lifestyles, professional and social development of human beings. Finally, the fourth concession, for the dissemination of the universal programme devoted to the development of society, economy, culture and moral change, which will promote media education, was awarded to WP1 for the WP1 programme. In the field of broadcasting, the work of the National Council has been completed, as announced, by preparation of the so-called. a Green Paper, which recommends a government strategy for the digitalisation of radio in Poland. Public broadcasting remains the leader of digital broadcasting, which sees the possibility of strengthening market power and development in this process. The digitalisation of radio broadcasting, in the light of the processes taking place in different European countries, is inevitable and, like the digital conversion of terrestrial television, requires a separate law in which the obligations of state institutions, broadcasters and other actors involved in this process would be established, inter alia. period and conditions of simulcast, information campaign or standards necessary for the production and sale of digital radio receivers. I would like to stress that all the work of the National Radio and Television Council and its offices has been carried out on the basis of the objectives set out in the strategic documents, most recently in the Regulatory Strategy of the National Radio and Television Council for the years 2014 to 2016 and the objectives adopted for implementation in the task budget approved by the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic. During the last term of office, the Office of the National Council has carried out the process of converting paper circulation into electronic documents in its entirety. In addition, several important office processes, including among others. the issue of concessions, received an ISO quality certificate of work. The results of subsequent NIK audits are also a sign of the quality of the office's work, especially the last one, after which we received no comments on how the National Council managed public funds. Another confirmation of the quality of the work of the National Council and its offices is linked to positive decisions by different judicial instances, which are a form of control of decisions taken by the National Council. From this place for the last time, in any case publicly and in such a worthy place, I would like to commend the entire team of the National Council office, people with many unique competences, who serve professionally and effectively viewers, listeners and the audiovisual media market in Poland. On behalf of the National Council, I thank you for 6 years of work for directors, experts and all employees. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As I said, this report ends the term of office of the National Council working for the last six years. We would like to thank you for all the factual comments made at this time at our address during the various debates in the Senate. Critics in the Senate touched us mainly on the part of Law and Justice, i.e. political force recognizing that there are no representatives in the National Council. Today, as a result of democratic procedures, the Senators of Law and Justice are co-deciding on the next composition of the National Council. It requires people with media experience who know the law and move without language barriers and complexes among European institutions. The parliamentary majority today has the opportunity to shape the composition of the National Council so that it is both the most competent and the most representative. The actions taken by the majority of the political media over the last six months, particularly those relating to public media, have been critically assessed by many national, European and global environments. [[But you don't get it, you don't get it...]] One evidence is the decline of Poland in the index of freedom of the media from 18th place in 2015 to the position of forty-seventh in 2016. This was mainly due to a change in media law. The Act on the National Media Council has lost a significant part of the achievements of independent Poland in the field of media, which was the formal separation of the current policy from the mission of public media through the constitutional ban on party politicians in the National Council and the ban on government influence on the programme. It is true that, despite these regulations, politicians have tried to influence public media. Sometimes they did it effectively. However, the standards of independence over a quarter of a century have been observed more effectively. I also talked about this in my present speech. While working on the new law, its authors used the argument that the public media had been accompanied by hypocrisy in previous years. And hypocrisy must be fought. But what is this fight against hypocrisy, when the new law, adopted in the parliamentary procedure, is written by the representative of the government for media affairs and the Deputy Minister for Culture, who from the beginning knows that he writes it for himself, presenting really absurd arguments in the opinion? [[I'm here on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u112	Excuse me, Minister. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u113	Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion: please refer... back to the agenda, because here you go beyond this item, beyond our agenda today, in a large and extensive way. That's why I'd very much ask your marshal to summon... [[...Report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the words I said at the beginning. We proceed with the consideration of item 17 of the agenda: the 2015 report of the National Radio and Television Council, together with Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2015. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u115	Mr. Marshal, I understand, but as I said at the beginning, this report ends the term of office of the National Radio and Television Council... [[Minister, if this were to be a report on the end of his term of office, that would be what it would be called. This is the 2015 report. Please continue.]] Mr. Marshal, there's very little left until the end. I think the senators will be able to stand this statement that won't last more than three minutes. I ended up with arguments that justified the various difficult to accept, in any case for me personally, solutions, e.g. the fact that a member of the National Media Council cannot be a municipal councillor and may be a Member or a Senator. [[Senator Kazimierz Wind: But you say no about it, sir. You can't listen to this.)]] [[But you, too, Senator, have said no to many times. You've said nothing about it many times. Why would you want to shut the President's mouth?]] [[In what mode does the marshal speak?]] [[In the same way you spoke.]] [[But I'm asking you to calm down. Minister, please continue.]] I'm really getting to the end. A few days ago, the Deputy Minister of Culture announced that he had thought about the proposal he had made and agreed to run for National Media Council for the support of his club. The public has been talking about this for months. It's not just hypocrisy, it's just indecency. You said you were giving yourself to the media to the nation, and without any embarrassment, you're taking it to yourself and to your clubmates. Daniel Hallin and Paolo Mancini, published today's widely accepted system of media models in Europe in 2002, also mentioned media systems in post-communist countries at that time. The Act on the National Media Council included Poland directly in the model of polarized pluralism, which is characterized by strong political paralysis in the media. This model, the least mature in Europe, is present in Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy, which is particularly relevant to the Silvio Berlusconi era. I am convinced that Poland can do better. I am convinced that after 6 years of our term of office it was a busy time In many areas we leave the media in Poland in better condition. What happened to the public media, however, caused the end of our term of office to be unsatisfying and, to be honest, quite sad. We'd like this situation to change as soon as possible. So we wish our successors in the National Council that their activities serve the freedom of speech and the development of media in Poland well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u116	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the president relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? First Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, Minister, in your report you raised the issue of dismissals of workers, journalists in public media, in particular on television. Could you elaborate on that? Because he is very upsetting to the public, he is the subject of many publications. It is about the number of redundancies, but also about the way in which public television is released and the personal situation in relation to the personal situation and professional journalists in other electronic media. Can you also refer to the ratings and popularity of the new programme proposals? And one more question. As an argument in the public debate on this issue, it is often alleged that in other periods, other governments have done the same. Would you like to assess this issue from the perspective of these six or perhaps more years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u118	You're welcome. [[Maybe the question is...]] The question is, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u119	Mr Senator, indeed, as I said in the report, the scale of the redundancies that have taken place since the beginning of the year, especially after the change of the public television board, has no precedent. Previously similar, but definitely smaller wave of redundancies took place in mid-2006, also after the change of media law, when president Bronisław Wildstein came to the Polish Television. At that time, changes were also made, but, as I say, the current scale of changes is unprecedented. I've exchanged these numbers, approximate, because we don't have very detailed data, but they speak for themselves. There is one major change, and I must stress it with great regret. Namely, for the first time active politicians openly spoke, announced what journalists would release, if they had an influence on it, exchanged names. I don't want to repeat those names, but they've rained many times. In fact, after the change of public television authorities, these persons listed as persons who are badly carrying out their duties from the point of view of, well, the representatives of one group were released. This is such a significant qualitative change, unfortunately, very reducing, so to speak, the level of criteria applied to public media. As far as the programmes are concerned, unfortunately, the case also looks bad. We all know the results of the ratings because they are published widely. The president of public television has a theory about this, he thinks that a company that conducts such research is biased, but I don't want to enter into this dispute. I don't question the results of these studies, just as they haven't been challenged in the last few decades. They show that public television loses its viewers very much. This is not good for two reasons. The first reason is for me to say mercantile: losing viewers, public television also loses influence from advertising. Well, the price of advertising must be lower after the huge drop in ratings. But let me be clear: if this were due to an increase in the level of the TV show... That's what happens, for example. in the West of Europe, on good television, German or even the BBC. They don't have as much coverage as commercial television. Although this is also an important range But they offer a very good product. So it's just very high-quality programs, whether informational or publicist or artistic, and a wide audience isn't always interested. However, I do not think that this accident occurred in Poland. Besides, the decline in audiences is already beginning to be... the share of public television in the market is getting significantly lower compared to the share of Western public television in the markets in their countries. About the past... Everything is, I would say, a matter of scale. Indeed, this was the case in the history of public media in Poland, that the new boards generally made some personal changes. I don't think they're all caused only by legitimate management needs. Maybe there was some sort of... I don't know, another way of looking at the world or maybe even looking at it. I'm gonna tell you straight to avoid the hypocrisy I was talking about. Political considerations. However, the scale of this was small, incomparable to what is happening today. Maybe I'll call in a little bit of what it says. In fact, in a book published a few years ago, one of the outstanding researchers of Polish media, Polish professor. This is going to be one short passage: After a period of relatively shallow bias since the beginning of 2006 there has been a phase of the ownership of public media by Law and Justice and the deep political involvement of managers and journalists of television stations during the term of President of Bronisław Wildstein and then Andrzej Urbanski. This was expressed in the intrusive publicity and exposure of issues convenient to this group and serving its interests. The bias of the message then took a clear form, and this period was defined by some researchers as the employment of democracy or the deconsolidation of democracy. There are further quotes, and I would say that maybe even more clearly showing what was going on in these cases. The author, Professor Dobek-Ostrowska, is very critical of the level of journalism during this period. I clearly stress that this is not my opinion. Because I've noticed that there's a lot of optics in this room, too, that everything is political and everything has to be either for or against. I will be perfectly clear: of course, I am familiar with the world of politics, I have been participating in it for many years, but this time I really am speaking from the point of view of the function that I have to exercise, from the point of view of the National Council, which must take care of freedom of speech and certain standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u120	Your Marshal, Mr. Underneath. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna pull that thread that Senator Rybicki started. Mr President, I understand that the influence on the condition of the media, especially on their financing, has the Minister of the Treasury, but I do not understand that the Minister of the Treasury decides who can function, for example. Editor-in-Chief, CEO or something, and who can't. After all, the Minister of the Treasure has no knowledge of what are the managerial or journalistic predispositions of the people who perform these functions. This is the knowledge that the National Radio and Television Council should have. And in recent times, all the changes that have taken place in the media have been translated into the decisions of the treasure minister. Therefore, I would like to ask you: has anyone asked the National Council for an opinion when a few weeks ago an excellent man, an excellent manager, was fired in my opinion, namely the President of Radio Katowice? Did anyone give an opinion of him? Because I think he was one of the best people. And I've been working on this radio for almost 50 years, and I've survived the government of 25 editors in chief, CEOs and others. And I didn't have another good boss like you. So I want to ask you if you know anything about his sins, which maybe I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u122	No, Senator, Mr. Marshal, the National Council did not consult on any of the personnel matters. Since the beginning of the year, we have been properly without contact with the relevant institutions that are responsible for the media. Indeed, until now, until the entry into force of the Act on the National Media Council, i.e. until 7 August, the Minister of the Treasury so discreetly and individually took all personal decisions concerning not only boards but also supervisory boards. I would like to agree with your opinion on Mr. Radio Katowice, President of Grzonka. He is indeed an outstanding professional, a longtime employee of this radio, a true Silesian patriot, and I can say it without overdoing the value of these words. Who loved his job. Yeah, he's been pulled, we don't know why.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u123	If you don't mind... Senator Rybicki would like to ask about his first question. [[No, I'd like to ask you another discussion.]] This, allow me, will first speak to Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u124	Mr President, I would like to ask whether you have conducted research this year on television news programmes, the objectivity of these programmes, the separation of the information layer from the commentary, which is the basis of journalism. If so, what were the assessments? That's one thing. The second question is more specific. How do you feel about what happened to the press conference between two presidents, Duda and Obama? At the press conference, there was full information about it in real time and only part of the statements of the President of the United States were reported later on in the information programmes, including in the news. Is that up to standards? And what was the reason for that?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator, also Mr. Marshal! Firstly, with regard to research, the National Council has been using research for a long time, as well as for this term of office. I'd say we even stepped up our research... Each election campaign that has taken place in recent years And there were at least 4 of them, if I'm not mistaken, they were tested by us. But we also studied the programs from a different angle. Of course, all the time. This is already a routine operation of our research in terms of compliance with advertising records. We work with many universities, perhaps with all the most important universities, among others. University of Warsaw, Jagiellonian University, Poznan University, University of Warsaw Adam Mickiewicz, also with the University of Wrocław. The most outstanding... maybe not the most outstanding, but one of the most important collaborators of the National Council is Dr. Gackowski. I'm replacing this name on purpose, because right now it's an outstanding expert, in my opinion, in the way the media evaluates it. As far as these recent studies are concerned, this year, unfortunately, the National Council suffered from a certain sense of temporaryity, so to speak. We did indeed carry out research, under the direction of Professor Mrozowski, which concerned one week of information programmes of the main television broadcasters, i.e. Polish Television, Polsat and TVN. Research has clearly shown that public television presents a program that is certainly not neutral, so it has to be said that biased, in which there are just different means of manipulation. These studies have been critically assessed by public television, there has been some dispute. Nevertheless, we maintain our statement that the results of these tests are reliable. We didn't do any more research, as I said, because of the end of the term of office of the National Council. My next remarks will already be my personal remarks based on careful media observation. They relate to what you mentioned to Marshal Borusewicz, the relationship between President Obama and Duda. Yes, indeed, we're investigating this case. We've had dozens of complaints, so we're still investigating her, we're at the final stage. The results of this analysis are clear: public television has done some manipulation by preventing some of the content from being allowed, which has significantly changed President Obama's entire speech. I have to quote here... I have already said this in the media, but since the marshal asks, I will once again quote my memory from many, many years ago, from the second half of the 1970s, when President Jimmy Carter arrived in Poland. At that time, as a very young man, I collaborated with such illegal underground writings of "Feedback." We sent three questions to President Carter. I remind you that these were times of deep communism. Someone tried to enter this press conference, but he wasn't allowed in... During the broadcast requested by the U.S.A. I saw it on TV with my own eyes. President Carter said that not all journalists were allowed in. He broke a rule of correctness which, as we well know, was extremely heavily guarded in the Polish People's Republic. In addition, he answered these three questions in writing. We included this in this illegal writing at the time. So, as I was looking at this situation with President Obama, I thought we were going back to the '70s.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u127	Senator Oremski's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u128	There was a controversy between the marshals... I would like to say that, in the context of the discussion of the Presidency of each country, there is often such a reference to order, the claim that it is going beyond the subject matter. Then, in the discussion, there is usually a current policy related to Europe, while... So it's not like it's unacceptable that it's an attempt to censor or something. I have three questions. Firstly, would the 2015 report be defensible if tactics were not applied on the basis of: is it even worse in 2016? Was there any chance that the 2015 report would defend itself without the President taking such a tactic? Second of all, I'm curious about the record... I'm gonna appeal to what happened at the committee meeting. This is about the time between the first and second round of the presidential elections. It is written here about the non-objectivism of Television Trwam, to which they were invited Only candidates, people associated with the PiS. I absolutely agree with that. It's also said that public television between the first and second rounds was less objective, but it doesn't say which way... I would like you to decide whether between the first and second rounds, so to speak, a significant shift of sympathy towards the candidate Andrzej Duda or towards Mr Komorowski. I don't understand why it's being judged in one case, and in the other it's just said something was wrong. And the third case, the decline in ratings. I have this view when I look at information programs that in 2015 the ideal format of Polish Television was very similar to the format of TVN. At the time of the change, I'd say some of the people who watched TVP headed for TVN. And that's one of the reasons for this level of ratings. Of course, it can hurt because of the advertising market, but I think it's related... I'd like a comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u129	You're welcome, Minister. Three questions have been asked. I'd appreciate a brief answer, but please don't take it as an attempt to limit...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u130	Mr. Marshal, I'll try to speak less. The first question is, would 2015 be... No, I don't think so. From the point of view of the entire work of the National Radio and Television Council, this year was a successful year. We've done a lot of successful action on e.g. protection of minors on the Internet. I don't want to exchange any more. I've focused on what's been going on lately, because for the public media or for the media in Poland at all these are very important events. I don't want to judge them anymore. Although I've made a clear assessment... If it's some kind of warning on our part, where is it supposed to go, if not from the High House? This is probably the most appropriate forum to talk freely about what is happening to public media. But I don't get the impression, Mr. Senator, that 2015 is undefensible. I think that the National Council has worked on many sections, carried out many tasks, as it was written in a printed report, which is, after all, multi-page. As for the non-spectivism of public television when it comes to the presidential election... Mr. Senator, I happen to remember that the time devoted to both candidates between the first and second rounds was very equal. And that's what our report says. Well, I might be wrong, I don't have it in front of me. So I don't want to disinform the senator. We're gonna talk about this because we're already talking about specific numbers here, but it's not like the National Council was trying to avoid it. About the decrease in ratings In fact, there is a dispute here. It is said that previously the main television broadcasters were in the mainstream, liberal-left, and they all said the same thing. Mr. Senator, I don't think so. The thing is, when it comes to information programmes, all TVs live on a certain agenda, right? Some agenda of the day. I'll give you a simple example. No television broadcaster will leave out e.g. Trying to knock in Turkey, because this is too important also from a Polish point of view, no one will miss Brexit, talking about events concerning foreign policy, very affecting the Polish situation. But no one should miss the very shocking public opinion of the fact concerning the latest draft law on increases for Well, according to my view, I hope that I carefully watched yesterday's news, both Polsat and TVN's information programs spoke about this matter, and the news did not. That's what this is about. It is not that you give a voice once this time, once this and that in the second part of the news you give some sensational information, which is also interesting, interesting to the audience. It is about this basic piece of information which builds a common awareness and a common agenda in which all Poles move. It's about the most important things. This certainly included the NATO summit in Poland, the way of looking at this summit, Poland's path to NATO and President Obama's speech. I'm not talking about publicism, I'm not talking about how to evaluate different events. I am talking about what journalists know well, that is, the need for neutral and comprehensive sharing of facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u131	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u132	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I will admit that I am very surprised at your attitude, because if this report, this thick book that I've reviewed, is really about 2015 and is in line with what we should be looking at, then your speech... Well, I'm a beginner senator, because I've only been here for a few months, but none of the people who've been here before you have ever given a show like this in the negative sense of the word. I'm sorry, but the point of order is clearly defined, and this is a 2015 report, and you have devoted most of your speech to criticizing the current media events and your successors. That's one thing. That's not enough, you criticized Parliament's actions and reviewed them. Is that your constitutional job? I don't think so. I think we're judging you here. This is your report. You're not supposed to judge us. That's the first point. A second significant remark. Art. 214 of the Constitution states that a member of the National Radio and Television Council cannot conduct public activities incompatible with the dignity of the function performed. I don't know what other people think. I won't judge you... But what you did here on this speaker during the debate on this item is public activity. You know, you have to be able to walk away with dignity. What you've shown here... I don't know if you want to buy into the favors of that side of the political scene and, excuse me, guarantee yourself something for the future? Because it's not a report, it's what you said from the speaker, and I'm not talking about this book here... [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] This is not a report. Your speech was not a report [[Voice from the room: Was that a question?]] [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: I will be happy to answer.]] [[But I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor. I assure you that I have always, constantly and continuously, tolerated questions with long comments. So either I apply the rule to everyone or to no one. I'm asking you a question, Senator.]] I would like you to refer to your previous statement, to the statement on 2016. The assessment of your successors, the assessment of the state of law in this regard in 2016 is part of the report you were about to report? I'm not talking. Okay, I'll say it again. It's about this book because it's different. [[Don't ask any more questions...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u133	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u134	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I would be happy to address your question and my statement. Well, my statement is positive, Mr. Senator, invariably positive. Of course, that's a bit of a joke. Seriously, Mr. Senator, that's what the National Council is for. 213 of the Constitution, please read not only Article. 214, but also art. 213 • to assess everything concerning freedom of expression in Poland, freedom of speech, which is the foundation of democracy. It is therefore a separate body and therefore, as the NIK also evaluates certain aspects of Parliament's behaviour, Parliament's legislation, the National Council also assesses the effects of Parliament's legislation in its scope. I think the successors will do the same thing as the predecessors did. It is by law that it is governed by the public domain in Poland, that the law expresses certain principles which the media must be subject to in this case. And that is why the National Council, in any case during our term of office, has always dealt with legal changes. There's never been any change that would change the functioning of public media in such an important way, in my opinion, this time I'll say it's for the worse. That's why I don't have... I've really studied every sentence of my speech very carefully. Besides, it is not true, Senator, that most of the speeches were devoted to public media issues. I have before me the content of my speech, 13 cards, so it's easy to prove. Of course, this is the hottest case, and I understand that it causes a heated political dispute. Just don't deny the National Radio and Television Council the right to assess what the evaluation has been set up for in the Constitution. You really don't have the right to do that this time. Then change the constitution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, to ask questions, I have registered Senator Fedorovich, Senator Rybicki, Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Żaryn. I'd like to ask the senator's question... [[I volunteered, too, a long time ago.]] I'm sorry. And Senator Augustine. Senator Fedorovich, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u136	No comment, but the Senate is a place to exchange views that serve citizens. Therefore, we will talk about the report as I will report to the committee because the report was at the highest level. There'll actually be two or three questions in one pitch. You are a great honour for the entire National Radio and Television Council. Vice President of the European Regulators Group for Audiovisual Media Services, ERGA. It seems to me that in the history of Polish free media nobody has performed such a function. That's just because Mr. Marshal allowed a brief comment, but I'm not gonna ask you what you're doing because it's in the report. But I have questions for you as a professional in the industry since the beginning of free Poland. Is there a country in Europe, except perhaps Belarus, in which the Minister of the Treasure single person decides who is to be the head of the Board today or sit on the Supervisory Board? And the second question is: is there a country in Europe where active politicians act as a board member or sit on the supervisory board of public media? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u137	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u138	As far as ERGA is concerned, this is an organization that was established three years ago. The direct reason for its appointment was the European Commission's need to assess media law in the light of the changing Audiovisual Media Services Directive. I was indeed one of the two vice-presidents, and I resigned at the end of last year because of the end of my term of office. This is a very serious institution. I think that Poland can and should once again fight for a place in the authorities of this institution. As regards the question in which the Treasury Minister appoints public media authorities, I can say that there are very different models in Europe. In Germany, for example, there are multi-membered councils for each of the great broadcasters, ARD and ZDF, and they elect an authorising officer, one-man authority. They also include representatives of political parties, but not exclusively, as well as representatives of churches, social organisations, journalists' organisations and broadcasters themselves. There has been a great debate recently at the BBC because the government was to delegate its representatives to such a trust board. And he did, except that the BBC employees were posting for one more person. In general, in European countries it is not so that executives or representatives of the political world do not participate in the supervision of public media at all. Quite often, they attend, but generally according to custom. As in the United Kingdom Or with legal regulations they are multi-member bodies, so the voice of politicians is only one of the whole, I would say, a range of voices in those bodies overseeing public media. To move on to the last question, I must say that it does not happen that the public media are led by politicians. This simply does not happen in these more mature systems in Europe. It is either a liberal system that is in force in the UK, generally speaking, or a system of democratic corporationism, which includes de facto Scandinavian countries, very mature in terms of media organisation. In these systems, politicians are definitely separate from the media. They oversee the media, they can participate in the choice of the media authorities, that's understandable, that's my comment, I'm sorry. But the media doesn't run it. In the Mediterranean system, which I mentioned here, and to which Poland, according to the criteria of Hallin and Mancini at the moment, is one of many things. Well, I mentioned Berlusconi's name here. It is associated with the period of certain abuses of political power in Italy, including against the RAI, the public broadcaster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u139	Thank you. Senator Rybicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u140	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask you an opinion on the progress of the work on media laws, which are of such great interest, but also controversy, in particular the Law on the financing of public media. I would like to ask: has the National Council been consulted on this matter? Have the expertise, scientific and research achievements of the National Council been used in the work on these laws? And is it true that poor progress in these works, one can say, putting them off ad Kalendas Graecas, follows - As some politicians of the PIS believe. From the opinion of the European Commission, which supposedly interferes with this work? Your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u141	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u142	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as these 3 or actually 4 laws are concerned, because the latter also applies to the Council of Public Media, or actually to personal matters, although it is very limited in terms of the scope of the matter, it is, to put it simply: I have to critically assess them not only because of what they contain or contain inside. To this end, the National Council referred to it in letters presenting an analysis of the draft laws. I'd like to say that the way we proceed over these laws... As I said, indeed freedom of speech The role of public media in cultivating and developing freedom of expression is important. This is the pupil of democracy in the modern world. None of these draft laws have been consulted socially. That's their original flaw. In fact, there was one public meeting, limited time. It was a public hearing that took place in the Sejm. It's not enough to talk about a real development of the right model of public media. And I believe that due to the development of society, the state of consciousness of the Polish society, the debate about public media, which, after all, serves not only politicians, also politicians, also state institutions, but also ordinary citizens in social, professional life, in personal life, the debate on these laws. As probably above all, but above these especially It should be preceded by a public debate. It wasn't there. Finally, the rush that accompanied the adoption of these laws is also not the best advisor. I don't want to be a prophet here, but I'm afraid that even the implementation of this residual, hull, bridge, second bridge What the authors call it. The bill can also cause many problems. It'll show the future. Here I can say I wish I was wrong. As far as the audiovisual fee is concerned, the legislator did not actually take advantage of our proposal. He developed a model that was actually not preceded by any research. Would the European Commission question that? I don't know about that, but I'm sure this project contained a lot of immanent flaws. I know this because the National Council participated in the work of the editorial subcommittee, and I can say that practically every article, it was the Legislative Office of the Sejm that was critical, and the National Council had many substantive reservations about it, completely unpolitical. I think this way of proceding also got revenge on the authors. That's my personal opinion. This causes, unfortunately, the situation of public media can be very difficult. Although the downloadability of the subscription is at the level provided by the National Council, it may even be a bit higher than the 661 million we are designing this year, it is far too little for the public media to properly carry out their tasks. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u144	Mr President, first of all, I would like to ask you to give me the analyses you mentioned, because this will answer my question. This year's analysis. You said two analyses. Okay? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: Of course.]] That's one thing. Second of all, I have a question for you. The National Council intervened on the broadcasting by one of the private radio stations in Poland of a government program, which was not only a publicist program but also a propaganda program, it was a propaganda tube of the Russian government, Radio Sputnik. I know that the National Council carried out an analysis of the content of the program, Radio Sputnik, and it was clear from it. So I'd like to ask you what the situation is. Is that radio still on? I know you've been performing under your authority... So what is the situation with this transfer of propaganda tube from Moscow to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u145	You're welcome. I just have a question: am I to understand that you will answer in writing? Was that for the first question, Mr. Marshal? [[For the first part.]] [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: Yes, I will answer.]] Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u146	When it comes to Radio Hobby, which is the local sender from Legionów, where there were Radio Sputnik broadcasts... In any case, apparently, the propaganda broadcast was not sold there. I'll tell you what. But on these waves of ether appeared. Indeed, the National Council had a problem with this, because this is where we enter a very delicate sphere between freedom of speech and propaganda aggression. After examining this programme, which we have analysed very carefully, because without a doubt the matter will eventually end up in court, it would be very difficult in this case to prove that there are limits to freedom of expression, freedom of criticism, etc. But it turned out that there are completely different reasons, formal, because the agreement signed between the commissioning Russian institution and Radio Hobby violates the provisions of the Polish law. It was just that this institution bought time from the sender for this program. This violates the principle that, apart from commercial communications, the sender is responsible for the transmission on his own, integrally. This is a very serious violation of the law. We have studied this very carefully, this was the reason for the withdrawal of the license of Radio Hobby and the concession has been revoked. At the moment, the radio has the opportunity to appeal to the court. Fortunately, there is judicial review of the decisions of the National Council. As I say, the decision by the National Council has been made, we'll see what the court does. This concession's been revoked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u147	Senator Żaryn. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u148	Dear Marshal, Minister! I have the following question. That is, as you know, memory is not perfect, therefore not all people remember, even if it was in 2015. But I remember that there was one form of manipulation on public television that was quite embarrassing, and especially visible to the presidential election. Later, it became a statute of limitations, perhaps because the polls indicated that the Law and Justice would prevail. And this journalistic manipulation was based, among others. on this... This was particularly evident in terms of the treatment of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński's person. This was based on the fact that, although he was on the air, he did not speak, but the comments of those who spoke for him appeared, and only critically. I understand that this manipulation, among other things, served to make statistics say that Mr. Kaczyński is as often shown as any other politician, as it is easy to guess But it wasn't true. There's been a lot of manipulations like that. I don't want to talk about everyone I remember. For that, I'd like to ask you... Because you should remember which one of those public television manipulations you responded to. as head of the National Radio and Television Council and what the positive effects were possibly. We are talking about 2015, and public television has made a very clear contribution to forming the consciousness of Poles, and it has done so in every period of history. That's the kind of manipulation that the journalistic world is doing to me. They were clearly similar to the times of the Polish People's Republic, not necessarily tonight's television. Of course, we can be wrong here, and we can certainly have a different opinion. Please answer my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u149	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you've touched things in such a way that you can't answer them factually and seriously. My grade wasn't really like that, but it's not about my grade. The point is that each television programme should be and is examined by us as a separate phenomenon. Each of them is actually implemented by another team of people, and what is said is subject to multilateral interpretations depending on who is looking at it. So if we were talking about a specific programme, as I did in my report, going in a criminal way outside the framework of 2015, I said, for example. What happened to Senator Rulewski... If we were talking about specifics, we could undoubtedly find an element of this analysis, but I can't answer that. You mentioned one name... No, I don't remember that fact, you'd have to... [[Don't you remember that fact?]] Perhaps such facts, Mr. Senator... [[Such daily facts?]] Well, you think it's everyday. I don't think so, because I just don't remember it. I'm not saying yes or no. I'll tell you something else. Namely, we talked here about some analyses that we did regularly after each election campaign. Then we met with the senders. That was our contribution. We can't analyze, and anyway... I'm sorry, we can analyze, but it'll be on the air. We can't ban anything, I'll even tell you that we can't exactly... well, we can't impose penalties on the sender for being biased in the program. That's just what the law doesn't allow us to do. And rightly, and rightly so, because this should be subject to professional evaluation, this should be the subject of a debate in the media, not subject to restrictive action by a regulator, which would then have to be called the 'censorship' prohibited by the Constitution. What are we doing? We met with the senders after every election campaign. Most of the analyses have just been done by Dr. Gackowski from the University of Warsaw, who... Well, let's not get caught so easily on chaff. Things like showing someone in a negative light, and then putting it in the statistics of the time and saying that this gentleman or this lady has been performing so many minutes or hours... Oh, no. These studies, which are public, available on our website, also included qualitative analysis, namely this I'm just gonna talk about that section you asked the senator about. If the person was shown, acting and saying, because this is a different situation than the one when it was only shown. And if it was shown, in what light, negative, positive or neutral. This is all subject to a very detailed examination, so I think I'm not sure, but I think so. That some part of what you've been asking, Senator, is also subject to this examination. It is not that broadcasters can mislead the National Council in such a very simple way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u151	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u152	I would like to ask you about a slightly different issue that was raised in the Senate in the Parliamentary Cooperation Group with NGOs. How do you assess the implementation of this part of the public media mission, which refers to enabling non-governmental organisations to present their actions, their statutory activities? Do you see any progress here? Would you suggest that organisations should have more access than they have so far? Well, in my opinion, they should.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u153	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u154	Mr. Senator, this is actually a fairly complex problem. We've been doing this for a good couple of years... We have issued such a regulation on the presentation of non-governmental organisations on public media antennas and it is in force. The problem has also come up with How do I say this? From a small activity of NGOs. They didn't use the time they owned. It has been going on for a very long time within the OFOP, which I think is what it's called, the federations of these organisations, an internal debate on how to develop a model that would be objective and which would make all NGOs have a level playing field when it comes to accessing the antenna. It's been a really long time. Let me be clear: Mr Jakub Wybański, a very well-known person in this environment, with great authority, was also a member of the public television programme council in our time. He resigned, it seems, after 2 or 3 years, but he was and despite these efforts and despite his activities, well, non-governmental organizations have failed to use all this time. I think it just takes a long, open conversation, a real conversation, with organizations, because it really wasn't disliked. In any case, it was not such an unwillingness to break through in public media, in regional radio stations, in Polish Radio or in the Polish Television, so that these organizations could not be on the air. I think it's more complex than that. But I agree with the senator that this is the section of public life that should be more present on television and on the radio.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u155	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, three complaints from citizens and even groups or social and political groups have been received at the address of the National Radio and Television Council. You mentioned the first one, I mean the one about me. Thank you for your concern, but I must say that I am not satisfied with the answer on this matter, as well as with the other two that I will speak about in a moment, because it is not actually there. The second issue which was signalled to me by the viewers concerns a programme in which, according to the viewers, President Obama's statement at the summit was clearly manipulated. And the third complaint concerns the presentation by the public television of wrong, according to the complainants, of authors of Poland's entry into NATO. What is the answer to these complaints from citizens? Is the institution of the complaint dead?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u157	We have discussed this second point, but please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u158	In short, Senator: no, the institution of the complaint is not dead, only it requires a very careful analysis and also requires, I would say, a response, and in any case, giving the sender a chance to respond to the complaint. It's just a routine procedure. We, of course, went on public television. It's been a long time. With a request for an opinion on those incidents on which complaints have been made, we have not received any reply. We asked for the visit of President Jack Kurski, as there should be a kind here, I would say, a debate in which the broadcasters' rations should be heard and we always listen to them. Mr. President took a long time to wait, and yesterday afternoon he said he'd be here by noon, but today a minute before the expected meeting he canceled it, claiming that the World Youth Days would not allow him to attend the National Council. So something's changed in a dozen hours. Nevertheless, we are at the moment... Well, we can, in the absence of an answer from the sender, undertake our interpretation of these events. She's critical. That's what I said in the report. I think in the next few days, Mr. Senator and the other complainants will get an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u159	Thank you very much. Do you still want to ask the senator? [[No. I don't want to ask. I have another question, the last one, also relevant.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u160	Thank you. I think I'm gonna write President Obama what it really was. But back to the basic question... As you know, perhaps not all in the House, I was genuinely concerned and presented the relevant projects, programmes, calculations of the television subscription. I don't like the word "charge," because the fee is at the market. The question is a fact. How do you assess the efforts of the current authorities and the creator of the bill, which I respected Mr Czabański, to implement this law? However, contrary to promises, this fee was not paid. The dryness or hindsight of the money for television continues. However, could you get an assessment or a hint of what to do next so that public television might flourish?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u161	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u162	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, let me say this briefly, because I have already mentioned this in the report. Let me put it this way: we've been working on the right model for public media funding for over two years. As I said, we handed over all the relevant documentation and the previous government, and this government separately at the very beginning. Of course, we were ready to provide further information. This documentation contains analyses of various models in Europe, analyses of macroeconomic indicators in Poland, indicates and presents an analysis of the needs of the media... the real needs of public media in Poland. And let me say this: a model has been chosen, which is actually the best model in Europe, a model that is very similar to the Finnish model. In short, this fee or contribution is paid by the person who receives the income and the person who does not receive the income does not pay the contribution. And then there's a low personal contribution... Here the database is very easy to obtain and control. This is the cheapest solution, because it can be done with the Minister of Finance's apparatus, while ensuring the independence of public media through a separate account for these media. This is a model that, as I said... On the question of our delegation in Finland, how much it costs, the answer was: nothing costs. Well, of course that was an over-answer, because it costs something, but they didn't see these costs as part of the IRS. The Germans who maintain the housing base changed the law probably 3 years ago, but maintain the housing base They must employ about 2 000 people and maintain this giant, you can say, the number of people, just because they have a unique housing base that no one in Germany is running. This is actually perhaps the way that wealthy Germany can afford, but she's anachronistic and certainly better to use what I said, something that doesn't actually generate any significant costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u163	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, Senator, I will remind you of the meeting of our cultural committee in the previous term, where we discussed the issue of the subscription. And it must be objectively acknowledged that the National Council has raised its revenues from the subscription in recent years. They were so low not because the National Council neglected something in this area... On the other hand, I must remind you of the times in which Minister Boni announced that there is already a bill that she is to enter into force, and for many years we have not seen it. So in this area, objectively speaking, we have many years of negligence. And in our previous term of office at the cultural committee meetings, we discussed what the proceeds of the subscription have been like in the last 10 years. The campaign calling for a subscription increased the impact of the subscription from less than 500 million... as I recall, from 460 to 470 million... to 660... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: 750...]] ...or up to 750 million. Objectively, this is the story of these basic influences of public television. Forgive me for putting you out of line. [[And thank you for the supplement, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Rybicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, during your speech, you raised the issue of the National Media Council. Unfortunately, the presentation was interrupted. Since you didn't have full freedom of expression, I'd like to ask your opinion. For the opinion of the President of the National Council On the National Media Council, which is already starting to function in the legal space. Well, the bill's already passed, and the composition's being set up. I would like to ask you for an opinion on how this applies to similar institutions in the countries of the European Union. Have such patterns proved to be a good example somewhere? How much advice can enter? .. and how long it's already coming in. In the powers of the National Radio and Television Council? As far as possible any interference on the national council line The National Media Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u165	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Just to be brief, maybe I'll say this. There are very different models of public media management in Europe. As I said, in Germany the regulator deals with public media to a very limited extent, but each of the radio and television broadcasters there, e.g. ARD and ZDF oversees a dozen-member body composed of various representatives of social life, including political life. There's a model, but there are other models. Well, in the UK, as we well know, the key role as always plays the queen, but it's actually a role, I'd say, customary. The influence on the media, even significant, may be the government, only that it never uses this possibility. It is simply a question of a certain political culture. Media history in each of the European countries has evolved differently. This also applies to Poland. We went through a period of communism that the Western countries did not go through. As far as European legislation is concerned, it imposes certain legal rules. They are not very restrictive when it comes to the organisation of public media, for this reason which I have said. These countries have their own baggage experience, and public media they form a tradition, a history and a culture that varies in each of these countries. There are also very serious recommendations from the Council of Europe, i.e. that body, which ensures that standards on civil rights and human rights are properly complied with. These recommendations are very clear about certain principles to which public media should be subject. No, among others. They should be separated... They should have an independent funding system, they should be separated from current policies. There are some clear, clear statements that current policy should not interfere with the media. Of course, this should be organised in such a way that it is possible to control the proper functioning of the media, but not in terms of freedom of speech or diversity of expression. How does the National Media Council feel about that? Well, I think that... I've already said that this is a denial of the 27-year-old tradition of public media, a tradition built with great difficulties and difficulties. You could talk about it for a very long time. In addition, the book was written on this subject. But in my opinion, it's a denial... This is a step backwards, because the media is supposed to be led by politicians, that they will depend on current policy. After all, 17 years ago, the legislator included a media structure in the constitution. And this construction was supposed to be a buffer for the National Radio and Television Council, whose members could not be active politicians. At the moment, it was actually lost. If it still looks like it, I don't know. I have some doubts, but I don't want to go into it right now, because it would just be anticipating the future, probably intentional. But what follows directly, in short, from the regulation of this law, is that this council is practically to deal with the choice of authorities, only and exclusively, i.e. programme councils, supervisory boards and, most importantly, the board, while there is no other competence. It's weird to have this advice. Namely, the Sejm Office is responsible for its operation. It's not the right thing to do, but it doesn't give you some tools. I think the future will answer how it works. A National Radio and Television Council I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, this is a clear reduction in the fact that it doesn't deal with the elections of the authorities. Other competences were not reduced and this was somehow disbanded during the parliamentary debate on previous bill projects, because initially there were plans to cut off the National Council from public media at all. This solution, in my opinion, is much better, because the National Council does not lose control over public media, such as it also has to private media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u167	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I have one question, too. Mr President, during the meetings of the cultural committee in the previous term, we discussed what the market shares of the Polish Television were like, i.e. mainly Programme 1 and Programme 2 over the last 10 years, as they have decreased since 2005 and 2006, a time when Polsat and TVN were not as strong on the market as they are now. What do they look like over the last 10 years? If I could have a brief presentation of this... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u168	Mr. Marshal, if you have a monopoly and the conditions of the free market come, this monopoly is lost, that's obvious. This was the first change, in 1993, when the Radio and Television Act was established and when the first commercial television was created... [[Market shares.]] Please? [[Just market shares.]] Market shares? They reached almost 100% before 1993. Since the appearance of Polsat in 1993 and TVN in 1997 They were definitely getting smaller. Numerical values... I'm sure it was that public television, public television itself, had about 40%. market share around 2005, i.e. when TVN and Polsat were already greatly increasing, which took the audience. Those were two stations that were... Polsat was nationwide, TVN was almost nationwide, he increased his range by increasing technical capabilities. Then, in fact, a major change was the change in digitalisation that took place in 2013, when instead of several programmes In some areas of the country there were maybe 4 programs that reached the audience All the viewers in Poland received 24 programs on the ground. For public television, this meant losing the market, even greater than for commercial television. Right now it's on the level... If I remember correctly, TVP1 8% , TVP2 s about 6%, maybe a little bit more. It's a very big loss. Public television has additional coverage thanks to its portfolio of thematic channels. They also lose television from this so-called. the big four, i.e. TVN and Polsat, but public television loses the most unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u169	Senator Łyczak. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u170	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to say that I am another term in this High House, and I would like to say, using the gentlest words, the nicest, that I have not heard such an unpleasant report so far. Because it wasn't really a report, it was most of your speech that you focused on criticizing the new team that came from those that the nation chose in the last election that the nation gave power to. That's why I'm going to ask you perversely because this is probably one of the last questions: are you satisfied with your speech and have you achieved your intended goal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u171	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u172	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I've already answered a similar question, but I'd be happy to answer it to the senator. My speech was thoughtful, and I wouldn't go back... I answered jokingly that I was pleased with him, but I am not to judge this report. However, it was thought through, and let me put it bluntly: I am not interested in who is in charge and who has chosen the nation, which is by majority, because this is not my observation point... not my observation field. My observation field, which, as it were, has placed a constitution in front of me, and another part of the nation that chose the previous authorities. "Yes, in democracy it is natural "is freedom of speech. I'm really not interested in partying. I am interested in what happens to freedom of expression, what happens to media, commercial media, and in particular public media, which have additional tasks. So have I reached my goal? If the senators, I don't know, take seriously what the National Council does, what it says, and what I said, then maybe it will encourage the media... so that freedom of speech in Poland is not threatened, because it is very important for the functioning of just the nation. I say yes, since you used that word. For the development of the nation, this is the basis. And for the public media, maybe there'll be a time like this. Although I don't see him on the horizon, to be honest. In which, in fact, all the viewers will be able to say: this is our media. Because if President Jacek Kurski says he has fewer viewers, but he knows that there are no viewers who were voters of the Civic Platform, but the viewers who are voters of Law and Justice have arrived. It's a shame he's not here, but that was his public statement. He just doesn't know what he's saying. Public media are not meant to divide audiences into supporters of one party or another. Public media are for the whole society, for all viewers, for all Poles. And I hope that someday such a time will come when at least a large majority of people will be satisfied with this program and the public broadcaster will gain the confidence of viewers or listeners. [[He'll be here soon.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u173	Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: I would like that very much.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Jan Dworak, has committed himself to answering in writing the question asked by Marshal Borusewicz. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Jan Dworak: Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, for a report from the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! The Commission met on 5 July for a very serious discussion. There were no substantive objections to the report presented, but the committee asks that the report of the National Radio and Television Council be rejected from its activities in 2015. Normally, I wouldn't be the rapporteur if it wasn't for my vice-president, my colleague Jan Maria Jackowski, to be on the delegation. Because I thought I and the senators who voted in favour of the report that there was no substantive justification for rejecting the report, allow Mr Marshal to present an amendment to the draft resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council, which reads as follows: the Senate, etc. adopt the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u175	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. [[There's no discussion.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Zdrojewska, please speak. [[Please sign me up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u176	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear fellow Senators! We've been talking about the media a lot lately, and there's been a lot of hard words in this room, a lot of important words. I believe that something very bad has happened here today, and that we have not allowed the outgoing President of the National Council to report, to say what he has prepared for himself. And he's entitled to it. We've hosted ministers in this room many times. Right? But I do not recall the situation that we do not listen patiently, sometimes at night, to the multi-minute tidings of Minister Ziebra, Mr Święczkowski or someone like that. We've done it with a lot of patience. Later, Mr. Senator, during the discussion, we were referring, with arguments, to what was said. I would like to appeal to the senator to discuss it in this way. Public debate gets worse, debate gets worse in the Sejm There have been further cases of this kind today. We would not want this to happen in this House. So let us try to maintain the proper level of discussion and our guests, those with certain obligations under the law, let us say what they have to say, and let us listen to it with respect and then make our arguments. That is what I wanted to appeal to my fellow Senators in Law and Justice. With regard to the report that you presented to the President... I would first of all like to thank the President very much for these six years of work. You're an excellent professional in this field. These last six years have proved that... in an extremely difficult time you managed to run the National Radio and Television Council in a way that didn't raise any doubts. We had this example at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, because there really was no objection to this excellently prepared report, nor to the work of the President or any of the National Radio and Television Councils. We in the culture committee That's what we're interested in, there's a couple of people out there who really have a lot of knowledge about the media, and they've been interested in it for years. So that I thank you for this report, for its quality. After 6 years of really hard work during a difficult period we would like to see the senators after 4 years of our work... When such a report is submitted, it is the right to take stock of the term of office which is passing. I'm looking at Senator Oremski here... It's just customary for us to allow it. If someone leaves after many years with some function, he has the right to sum up his entire term. If we're talking about the last six months that this report in writing didn't really concern... But we're interested in all of this. The next head of the National Radio and Television Council will present his report in a completely different way, from a completely different point of view, because, as we know, we are in a completely different paradigm of the media situation in Poland at the moment, especially when it comes to public media. And I think that's what we should talk about. Most of the speeches, also from the PIS, were not about this year, but about the previous presidents, or we were talking about the situation of public media at the moment, and it looks terrible. I'm sure we'll be judging that next year. What's going on in the media right now raises widespread criticism. I am surprised, Mr. Senator Oremski, Dear My colleague from Wrocław, because you have told me many times that you do not have a TV at home, and it is so easy for you to judge the quality of TV programs. Right now, we're together because I've stopped watching public television now, too. It's very hard to watch, sometimes I force myself. I will refer to the two programmes mentioned by the President. These are satirical programs of the so many visions and of the Studio YaYo. I really recommend... It showed me my baby. These are programs on such an embarrassing level that I don't recall And I'm a pretty critical TV spectator, I've been a critical spectator in previous years. Something so embarrassing on public television for the money of all taxpayers, for the subscription money, but of course also for the money that TV makes itself, because it also makes money from advertising. Of this, you can only laugh at these embarrassing programs. But when it comes to some things, it's not funny, because these are serious things. This is the basic source of knowledge of Poles about what is happening in politics, what is happening in the country, and citizens who pay this universal fee have the right to hear objective information, not just information about an option. I can even agree that this television has been biased and we all know it, and it's for different CEOs in its history. But the kind of thing that's happening right now, for the presidents of Mr. Jarosław Kurski... [[Jack, Jack.]] [[Jarosława, that's right.]] Jack, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. Mr. Jarosław Kurski works in a private medium, he can say whatever he wants. But Mr. Jacek Kurski he doesn't work in a private medium and he should present objective, reliable information that we would expect from him. Meanwhile, the level of information programmes, these examples that my colleagues presented today, regarding the quality of the news, are shocking. This is really embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not yet happened that Washington's leading newspapers have written about our television news in a negative way. It's just embarrassing. And that happened because we are unable to provide reliable information, inform the audience about important matters such as President Obama's visit or NATO summit. I recommend you to look at the right side. To look at it, because all these examples of what is currently happening on TV are widely discussed in the media. Both Virtual Media portals and non-governmental organisations conduct monitoring and can read about it. Even if someone doesn't have a TV If he doesn't watch TV, he can read about it, find out what it looks like right now. There has never been such a thing, although, as I stress, I agree that public television... I don't remember it ever being 100%. objective, it simply cannot be done, but it has never been exceeded a certain level of decency when it comes to journalistic ethics when it comes to the presentation of messages when it comes to the treatment of guests For example, we have an example of Senator Rulewski. So that's what I wanted to tell you. During this term we will still have the opportunity to evaluate the new television authorities, we will have plenty of opportunities to wonder how the party officers rule television and how it all looks like, we will evaluate it next year. Yeah, but today we're talking about last year when he's off duty. I stress: the service of the National Radio and Television Council, an institution which is enshrined in the Constitution. We respect this very much as senators and thank you very much again. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. Now to speak, please, Senator Obremski. Let's explain if the senator has a TV or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a problem. I never said I didn't have a TV. Senator Zdrojewska confused me with President Rafał Dutkiewicz. I'm not offended. We're the same height, so I guess that's why we made the mistake. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Listening to Senator Zdrojewska, I had the impression that Mr Dworak's martyrdom had been carried out by Marshal Czelej, who abused himself in an unlikely way. I have a better opinion of the Minister. I simply consider Mr Dworak to be a man of character, and he showed this character in the 1970s and 1980s. He is a very assertive person. What's more, during his presentation, Mr. Dworak said exactly what he wanted to say, and he finished... Therefore, I would say, I don't think your Marshal's behavior was too bloody. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to defend the quality of Polish Television in 2016. Nor could I defend the quality of Polish Television in 2015. A little consolation is that here and in 2015, and in 2016 it is probably better than That's how I feel about it. I'm on TVN. I regret that it will be... that there is a second aid law, because I believe that as a parliament we have been misled by the Ministry. Well, of course, it's just to write things down, but maybe it's legal, and I'm not picking up... and I don't think it's very elegant. But sometimes I feel like we're thinking about television. On one side and on the other side In such categories: we own well, they own evil. Discussion... Is it time, qualitatively, quantitatively, when it comes to this charge... you can say it's evenly... I don't know. I don't want to go deeper into this right now. I have good news and bad news for you. The good news is that the subject of our concern may be less and less important, because generally in the world, the source of information, which is television, is being used less and less. It's a global trend. A generation of 35 years old and less significantly reduces TV viewing. Those who are viewers are often a little older. Of course, there is also bad news about it. The fact that public television could be the element that connects the community, which creates a common denominator, and we often complain that at the moment we are some two divided tribes in the country. So television could do something like this... in this area. I also have a problem with such separation: public television and commercial television. And that in these commercials it's all possible because there are private TVs, so everything is acceptable there. Information is a little bit like water, it's not a regular product, it's a commodity that can constitute us. I think this information means to form from the inside. So this is something very important. And I think that's what the National Council is for, not to treat information as a commodity. From my point of view, there have been 3 TVs in recent years that have decided to form in electronic transmission. And I often heard the answer: as there is no pluralism, there is e.g. Television Trwam. It's just that it reminds me a little bit. In keeping with all the proportions, the statement that as there is no pluralism, after all there is a Common Tygodnik, a statement that I heard in the 1970s or 1980s. I may surprise you, but still Television Trwam is not the format that is closest to me. And of the 3 TVs that decide the market all 3 or I would say that 2,5 In my opinion, they were exactly the same, not only in party or political sympathies, because this does not necessarily mean the same thing, but also as if it were worldview. I had such an impression when discussing in vitro, that I no longer fit into what is presented on public and non-public television. And here's my problem: I think we're all gonna agree that in society we're sure Gaussian distribution of views on public affairs and that there are some extreme situations that we refer to as being already outside democracy, I mean some attitudes on the left and on the right. I feel like there were two things on public television. First of all, one-way shift. Guess which one. And secondly, a very strong narrowing of what is defined as acceptable pluralism as an area of democracy. And I think that's the big problem that came along... And with all the criticism TVP I would say this: well, it is biased; we have the second one, which is important in the market, which I also perceive as biased. I believe that for the quality of democracy in Poland this is a more favourable situation. Because what does that mean? That the government side will be there every time... The slightest slippage of the government side will be very strongly articled and reinforced by television, which to the government side has no sympathy. But on the other hand, there is also a situation that sometimes ugly things about those who ruled before come to light. And you shouldn't sweep things under the rug. In this context, the diversity of television, which may not meet the journalistic standards on all these televisions, offers an opportunity to improve the quality of democracy, because it may cause political concerns that if they do something wrong, it will be publicised sooner or later. And one more piece. The Minister said that politicians don't manage, but at best they supervise. I think it should be, but there's a property problem. Berlusconi was still cited, who certainly deviated from a certain standard of European media independence. But what I'm trying to say is that I remember the way that they privatized the Rzeczpospolita. So some manipulation of property is also an important element of whether we are dealing with media freedom or not. Of course, I would prefer only to write well about Poland, but it is so, Mrs. Senator, that in the English press and in the American press German and Swedish media were smeared after New Year's Eve, writing about total embarrassment. So I would say this: bad that they write bad about us, but let's look at it from a slightly bigger perspective. I would like to point out that as a Polish country, we have abandoned a certain reform after 2010. Until a certain point, it was said that we had to create... It was said to be more public media, and at the moment the power was fully taken over, it was withdrawn... This was not done by the Ministry of Culture or by the Council of Ministers, and this effort has not been made, as in the last six months a person who is certainly not the most sympathetic towards the PiS I'm thinking Jack Żakowski. In the end, I'd like to thank you for... Because there were such elements of criticism here. I'm sure all these child protection regulations are very respectful, and thank you for them. I have a different opinion from that of some senators. I am actually deeply convinced that our mothers, our fathers on television, was a good choice. I think the discussion that was later was extremely interesting. And blocking these kinds of movies is more like... It smells like the danger of paternalism. And I want an opinion. There was a discussion here and it was shown what the problem was. Therefore, thank you very much for the courage of this decision. And to sum up, I am not satisfied with the quality of public and commercial media in 2015. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u179	Thank you. I would ask Mr Fedorovich to speak. [[I'm a senator, not an MEP.]] I'm sorry. You were an envoy. [[But he's wrong about me, Mr. Marshal.]] You were an envoy, but luckily you're already a senator. [[Voice from the room: He's very lucky.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode, please, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u180	To correct my words. I could have been wrong... [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Sorry, Senator Zdrojewska wanted to correct it.]] Yes. I'm very sorry, I could, Mr. Senator. I'm addressing Senator Oremski. Make a mistake. Indeed. But we talked in a cab once, and you said you didn't watch TV very often. Oh, yeah. So that I'm sorry, because I may have mistaken you, indeed. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u181	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u182	Then again, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] At first, I'd just like to... Because Senator Czerwinski, as he said, is here for the first time, and I think he's in Parliament... The point is that all of us who are here for the first time know that if we speak or report from a representative of a constitutional body, it is not the custom at this point to interrupt and pay attention to it. It's never happened before... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, I'll finish up and you'll tell me. [[Senator, don't lie to me. I asked the question and didn't interrupt.]] Good. I don't want you to... That's what I'm saying to all of us. The point is, we shouldn't do this. Because there's a precedent that has been brought to my attention. I don't do that anyway. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, I have been in charge of television and media since there is a free Poland. I've been watching them all along. Of course, as we remember, our dream ..people.. At my age and a little older, it was so that public television was truly public television or public media was media. And that's why, as you know, the National Radio and Television Council was set up to make sure of that. Of course, we have failed to come to such a situation that we would say that this is an absolutely apolitical organ. I must say that, when we adopted this report at the committee meeting, there were voices about the political nature of this advice. And I, who entered Parliament in 2005, witnessed a complete change in the previous council at night. And I just want to remind my colleagues in Law and Justice: if you talk about politicality or lack of politicalism, remember that the current politicians worked at the National Radio and Television Council Ms Raven, Senator Boron, Mrs Bubula. And this last piece of advice, as you can see, is made up of professionals. They, of course, entered it by bodies which have the right to do so, i.e. by the President of the Republic, by the Sejm and by the Senate. And among the people who are sitting here Except for one, because there's one minister missing. There is no politician on a daily basis. So this is a signal that there is a possibility that we will finally have apolitical advice. Well, that signal exists because the road has been started. Let's see how this goes on. I don't think we're gonna go public with the media right now. Well, there wasn't something like that that, so that the media would be headed by a former Member, who would change organisations depending on where he liked it. Well, that's hard enough. Gentlemen of the PIS group, you will take this responsibility because it is you who make this decision. I just heard from Senator Obremski. I respect him very much. Professor, the whole point is, if there's anything public... [[With this professor, it's just like with the TV.]] Oh, that's Doctor. If something's public, it's just to look at the power of the hands. That's what this is all about. What's the point of public television or public radio glorifying power? Especially in a situation where you have 2 private stations, i.e. Television Trwam and Television Republic. And no one forbids you to attack the opposition all the time. Besides, in the history of parliamentarianism or democracy, it has not yet happened that a public broadcaster is a flatterer of power, because it is a complete, absolute nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, for years I have accepted reports in the Sejm. They were usually very professional, of course they were criticized on every side, as it is customary. However, I would like to thank you very warmly for this last report, which is at the highest level. I have already talked about how this National Council, which I also said at the committee meeting, was doing very well in very difficult times when it was attacked by representatives of one station because it behaved against the rules, even though... And these attacks were very harsh, I witnessed them in the Sejm. However, as it turned out, the truth was on the side of the council, because all the courts granted it and its law prevailed. I would just like to thank all the staff of the National Council once again very much, hoping that the next National Council will be the body that will represent all the political options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear colleagues from the constitutional body, which is the National Radio and Television Council! My title of the speech can be surprising, because I do not work in the Committee on Culture and Media, nor was I a television journalist. Sometimes they invite me, and they don't always show what's right, sometimes there's incidents. The title of this speech is different. Namely, from some summing up, integrating my life observations resulting, first, from an age that is already too long, especially when it comes to staying here, in the Senate, and secondly, from too long observations. Well, Senator Oremski said there were three TVs. He told the truth. There are 3 centers to promote political groups, and maybe even more. Civilization groups. But he didn't tell the whole truth. There's five audiences. In addition to the three he mentioned, there's two more. The fourth is the part of Poland that looks at the TV as it looks at the monitor, which is to turn it off or use it for other messages, and also escapes to the Internet, let's say honestly. The fifth audience, which is almost not mentioned here, is not only Poles abroad, because it seems that this problem is solved, but also our neighbours and the world. I've been talking about observations from my whole life. It's happened. It's hard for me to admit, but I have to. During his stay in the former years in the Soviet Union, it turned out that Polish television is culturally active. People living there, not only Poles, were subjected to cultural and civilizational influence of what was happening in Poland, including what was relevant to history. I also noticed this in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and even further. People learned about Poland from television, less often from radio. It's gone. It may have disappeared due to the reconstruction of the world, which has become a cultural world through the extension of technology, but we have definitely deserted from this field. There are many reasons for this, but one of them is certainly about money, resources. And that's my second title to perform. At a time when my colleagues refused to speak to me about it, I developed a program, and actually, as it turns out, we worked in parallel... We talked with the Finns not only about how to financially strengthen television, but about how to maintain communication between the Pole and the institution that is his informant, the second Pole who speaks from the TV or radio screen. This link is a subscription, not a fee. This fee is at the market. This fee is for the use of the toilet. The media, no matter what we say about them, is not only, as the National Council writes, one of the important centres of democracy. They are also an important element of communication, bonding, learning how to be a Pole, how to be a Pole these days. This cannot be avoided by the problems of a deficit, a bad organisation, subjecting it to one of the ministers, and even more so by fleeing the subscription. This is what no civilized country, at least west of the Oder, does. This common self, this identity between media and audiences, citizens, residents, visitors to Western countries is enormous From 96 percent acceptance in England, similar in Finland to 90% German or even the one in the Czech Republic, which is at 60%. This identity is built, among others. by wishing to participate in the subscription. It is worth noting what a subscription is. It is the right to continue to use from the beginning, from conception to the end of life And even further, even longer, with information about what is happening around me, around our country and around the world. I'm sorry to say, Minister Czabański's trivializing it. Indeed, this problem has not been solved. Worse still, after 5, 6 years of dryness, or actually after a longer period of time, when the subscription function was, as I said, demoted to something forced by acts of fines or even enforcement proceedings, the good will shows only less than 1 million subscriptions, even rich companies escape from the subscription, we have just come to the fact that our television broadcast does not reach the Poles in Lithuania, Ukraine, because it competes with the Soviet... Soviet, I am not wrong, well, sometimes Russian. The same is true in Slovakia. And Poland has all the conditions Its strength, the events that took place here, its number, to become a real leader not only of change, of reform, but of some kind of civilization. What happened in Poland after 1980 is a real contribution to the development of the world. And a lot of people still don't know, so to speak, the foundation of what happened. And when we talk about the promotion of Poland, when we impose an IPN the need for defence, at the same time we admit that we could not positively promote the changes that took place in Poland. That's why Governor Saakashvili of Ukraine challenges Balcerowicz almost from thieves It is precisely because he did not get a message about what Balcerowicz and others did in Poland. That is why I have presented a program that really aims at the fact that... Since the state is constitutionally obliged to provide information to every Pole, on the other hand, it gives rise to a subscription fee. Of course, there is no coercion in a democratic state. And then there's a statement: I don't use public media. I don't pay. Of course, under the threat of responsibility for passing on the untruth. Therefore, this program, instead of resorting to companies, to private companies, instead of forcing them to download subscriptions, is another example of trivializing this case... I am opting for the solution that Finland has successfully put in place, assuming that smart Fin is Fin informed. You can't say there's wisdom without information. So, of course, the duty to maintain media is on society, not on the state. The media must therefore be public, not private, to represent the public of the state. Centers... Especially since not always the dispatchers are in Poland, they often have no interest in Poland. In conclusion, I am appealing here to the PiS... Indeed, you can say that the team that ruled for so many years has made mistakes. I'd point out those mistakes myself. It is among them, among others. lack of sufficient effort in terms of fee... subscription, excuse me. I've already been persuaded to sin in this room. But one thing you can't deny is that the media has been modernised into the most modern fashion in the world. They're all digital. The programme was launched by the National Council and implemented. And most importantly, no one's gonna do it. Theoretically. He didn't pay. So today Poles have a choice to do what public television doesn't show... Because she goes to Radzymin or Minsk. And you can use digital television to reach out to what's going on in New Zealand, the United States or Greenland. And for that, the National Radio and Television Council thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u185	And I thank you for your speech. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u186	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you a little bit. I'm afraid that part of the room was amnesiac. I listened very carefully to Mr. Dworak's speech. As if you hadn't seen what was happening on TV, what was broadcast on TV shows. I will remind you only one key moment: as in Program 2 of Polish Television on 19 May last year This was a very special period, between the first and second round of the presidential election, two gentlemen, deeply complex, began to abuse the daughter of a presidential candidate. As it turned out a moment later But the election's over. Their trial with the candidate, through their daughter, was based on false data, on slander. It was just a lie. But it was decorated at the best air time on the waves of Polish Television. How does it feel to be so objective that in the program I'm talking about, propaganda has gone crazy for the next few months? It's obvious, but you didn't see it. About what you were talking about. You were accused that a member of one of the niche groups was on the air more often than the President-in-Office. These were not unfounded allegations. It's been measured. You said it was some kind of... It wasn't irrelevant. It's about the specific hours and minutes that decided on popularity. You've been filming all this, acting as a public television to broadcast a message to the whole of society. You are accusing a lack of quality to the fantastic program, in my opinion, so much of the vision that has recently appeared in... If you want to see it, please note that it is not, as was the case in the program, Thomas Lis live, a one-sided trial with the opposition. Many different content is allowed, and presented in a very interesting form. Even the opposition has... No, not even. It's just that there's an opposition in each of these programs. I think if anyone wants to accuse your editor of being a member of the PiS, it's a mistake. Thank you very much. [[Senator Grzegorz Pekkis knocked down a glass of water]] [[Voice from the hall: It's for good luck!]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, what a mess!]] [[We'll help! We'll help!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u187	There's been a fuss at the moment. We're asking the proper staff to clean this up. Now, please speak to Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. In the discussion we are discussing here, I really miss what should be most important in the debate on the report, i.e. reflection on the essence of the activities of the National Radio and Television Council. In the discussion that is currently underway, we focus only on public television, we argue whether it is really public, and we talk too little about the mission, what is really said about it in the Constitution or in the rules on the functioning of the National Radio and Television Council. After all, we should really talk today about how to build a media market in Poland, how to make it fair for everyone, and how to promote certain activities of various media companies, television and radio stations But only those that are good, who have interesting ideas and which enrich our lives. At the same time, we should eliminate from our lives everything that is wrong, which is actually threatening our existence, our children and everyone who lives in our country. And that's what I miss. Let me put it this way: discussions about public media have always been very exciting. The laws have also been amended a number of times. We now appoint members of the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council. Today they are called by some, but, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, someday the power will change and the next ones will come. Just so we're clear, the same laws will be used by them to choose their own people. Today they are representatives of the Law and Justice, and in a few moments after the next elections, they will be representatives of the opposition. I am absolutely convinced that those politicians who take over for you will not be saints and will simply choose their own. Because you've shown that you can choose all members from your own parliamentary club. I'm not accusing you of anything because you absolutely have the right. Whoever has a parliamentary majority chooses. And you always have to have half the votes plus one. There is one important thing missing from this debate today. Did the National Radio and Television Council actually perform its function? Is what's been going on in the media market in recent years... And there was a lot going on because the introduction of digital television was quite an event. When I look at the map of the European countries that carried out this process and what was happening in Poland How we introduced multiplexes I think we did it really well. Despite very big political disputes about Television I Trwam actually this process took place without any delays and without any problems. We did it exemplaryly. We did it. After releasing the bands today we have extra money because we actually sold these bands to mobile phones. I miss the debate on whether the National Radio and Television Council has checked how public media are financed, whether there have been legal acts, whether there have been suggestions, even for Parliament, to follow a concrete path. I miss this debate. Now that you're all focused on TV and radio, How to make Polish public media... no, not even independent, but autonomous. Because if they're autonomous and not dependent on others, then they're really independent. If anyone wants to have... You say that one television supports one political force, the other supports another. When it's private television, let them really support who they want, that's their private business. I've been attacked by the media a lot myself, believe me. But my dream is that the public media in Poland should really be a direction indicator, a signpost for everyone, so that there would be excellent education, great entertainment, so that, as on other televisions, we could watch even wonderful natural programs, because this is what we really lack and lack. And today, in this debate in the Senate, I miss it. In a summary of the activities of the National Radio and Television Council, I missed these threads. The fact that, in fact, in this report on over 158 pages, if I remember correctly, is written about the legal acts that appeared, whether they were right, whether they were going in the right direction, what needs to be improved in the next term of the National Radio and Television Council... Because the world around us is changing. And we have to respond to the demands of the modern world. Because the country itself in this speaker said that this market is changing. This discussion by Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Obremski, who has a TV and who doesn't... But today this discussion is really going on in public space. Where are the media supposed to be, what are they supposed to look like when the world is changing and we're using completely different media? That's what I'm missing today. I thank you for having actually done a very good process to make our media modern and digital. It was really the biggest challenge of those years, because it was a very short term, we faced a big challenge. And it worked, it worked together. Just so we're clear. Because in Parliament this discussion was so conducted that everything In addition to one point of dispute, which has been decided positively In fact, the opposition, and the ruling coalition at that time, were able to talk to each other and conduct a dialogue. And that was actually the reason that everything went really well that we managed to do this, a very difficult thing, a really very, very difficult thing in detail. I would like to say that we have the most important task in front of politicians. And I hope that we will grow up to... Perhaps not today, shortly after the election, it is the right time, but perhaps in a moment there will be such reflection and we will stand on this speaker, and not only on this, but also on the second parliamentary Parliamentary. And we're gonna start talking about what we're gonna do to make public media autonomous. And how to make the National Radio and Television Council change not under the influence of political forces, but because the world requires that new tasks must be placed on its shoulders, and as a result the National Radio and Television Council will have a completely different position, but also completely different tools, other tasks. 'Cause it's really, ladies and gentlemen, we're waiting. And that's exactly what I missed in this discussion. I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation, because as head of the Committee on Innovation and Modern Technology, I was able to cooperate with the National Council. Those were difficult times and we often had different opinions, but those were good times. And I hope that today this discussion, although often exciting, will end really substantively and will be far from politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! And those who know what I'm going to say before I say anything! Ladies and gentlemen! The National Radio and Television Council is finishing its term of office. And the National Council basically presented its will, i.e. not only a summary of what she did in 2015, but also her assessment of this situation, which started with the cancellation of Janusz Daszczyński from the head of public television. And it's a good thing that she did it without amputation of what was going on this year, because without that it would be an incomplete report, and it would avoid the issue of neither a difficult nor a non-conversatory subject, it would avoid the important subject, which is happening right now, what has been happening since the beginning of this year on electronic media, especially on television. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the President, his alternates and the entire National Council, including its staff, in the hope that what has affected public television and radio workers will not affect the staff of the National Council. Three weeks ago, I mentioned the names of 172 journalists who had been expelled or forced to leave, and at the moment I would have to name 185 names, and unfortunately this list would be extending. I would like to thank the National Council again and for the fact that as a result of your actions it was possible 500+, because thanks to the switch to digital television and the release of bands last year, mobile telephones could be sold for 9 billion PLN. This enabled the current government to implement the 500+ programme. I emphasize that because it's an important program. A Situation On TV I mean the removal, the exodus of key journalists, the best journalists It affects the level of audience of public television. It's clear to me that the drop in ratings didn't come from anything. The decline in ratings came from the fact that the publicist's downgraded. And the information... Well, it's just a tragedy. I once, even recently, a year ago, had to watch, by obligation, at least three programs, public television, Television Trwam and Television Republic. Right now, I don't have to watch Trwam Television or the Republic Television, all I have to do is watch public television. It can be seen that in these two non-public ways of showing, the way of editing information And that also applies to the people who went through these two TVs. He's just so... And I don't have to watch Trwam Television or the Republic Television anymore. Of course, it saves me some time... But this did not even the level that public television had before these redundancies, motivated by political reasons, that is clear. Whoever is not with us is against us That's the password. Or much wider: whoever may not be with us is against us. Ladies and gentlemen, the argument that if we have public television and broadcast propaganda programs or programs where we will only boast of the current power, the PiS, those who are watching, will take over these values and these content, the viewers will take over this content... The viewers vote with their legs. That would be possible and possible in Russia. It is there that all electronic media, television, have the same message. And this propaganda is affecting, the propaganda that says that in eastern Ukraine there has been an aggression of the bandrans who carry out genocide, or genocide, on the Russians in Donbass and in Lugansk. That's where it works. And unfortunately, this kind of... And you can see it's working. You can see it's working because most Russians out there aren't just saying that right now, they're still thinking that. And they're also people with census, with education, not just those with primary education. Unfortunately, this is the message that poisoned the Russians' minds right now. But this was only possible because all televisions, including those with private contributions, had a uniform, uniform message. In Poland, this is impossible. But besides, even if there are further steps and private televisions will be subjected, they will create propaganda tubes of the government, the Poles will not take over. We are a society other than Russian society. We were a different society and we're a different society. It is important that this independence, including private media, was protected by the present National Radio and Television Council. Unfortunately, you're leaving. I am concerned that further steps, further action, will affect private television. I already know that companies, large companies with the participation of the State Treasury, are prohibited from advertising on TVN24. In Polsata, yes, but in TVN24 they can't. These are the methods... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...financial strangulation. I thought there was a new advice that we'd come up with here and in the Seym. At the moment, this procedure is in progress. At least in one case she will have someone other than that indicated by the Law and Justice. Unfortunately, it's not. [[Mr. Marshal...]] That's a bad forecast. [[It's been 12 minutes. If you were on your way to the end...]] That's where I'm gonna end up because I told you everything I wanted to. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Oremski signed up for the last vote. [[Voice from the room: 5 minutes, because this is the second speech.]] Yeah, that's your second speech, so you've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u192	I'll only be a minute... I don't think you can leave it like that without comment. I exceptionally disagree with the chairman of the cultural committee that public television is from control of power. It's just a little... In my opinion, it's the NIK who's handling it. If you'd accept such... [[Thinking shortcut, Mr. Senator.]] If I were to assume that, I'd have sad news for you. You would have to vote against the report. I think this whole debate is about something completely different. I firmly believe that Senator Pekkis, and Senator Borusewicz, and Minister Czabański, and Minister Dworak understand the matter differently, but in fact everyone thinks that public television or television should be characterized at all. Values such as truth and honesty. That's what this argument is about, even though we understand it a little differently. And to your marshal... I am aware that, when criticizing the 2015 public television, we are taking on a commitment to the quality of public television in 2016 and later. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Fedorovich. The discussion is closed. As a legislative proposal has been tabled... I also have a question as to whether Mr President would like to take the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, no, I don't want to speak, just please...]] But the chairman of the National Council. [[Oh, I'm sorry.]] Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! I'm gonna cut it short. It's my last speech, so I'd just like to say that it's a courtesy... I would like to thank you very much for working with the higher chamber of the Polish Parliament for all the substantive elements of our discussion. I understand these political accents, we accept it with the benefit of inventory. It was very nice to hear a few of you thank you for our work. I'd just like to say that... my name has been mentioned, but, I understand, it's addressed to the entire five-person council and the office staff. Thank you for your cooperation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. As a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposal and to prepare a report. I propose that the Senate set a deadline for the committee to submit an additional report so that it is possible to proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution at this meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Retail Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 231 and the committee's report in print No 231 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission, at its thirty-nineth meeting on 19 July, examined the Retail Tax Act No 231. This law was passed at the twenty-second session of the Sejm on 6 July on the basis of a government project and was then addressed to our committee. The Act introduces a new income tax, a retail tax on retailers. The tax base will amount to a surplus of retail revenues of more than PLN 17 million in a given month. It is proposed to vary the rates of tax depending on the amount of income achieved, i.e. 0.8% of revenue surplus between PLN 17 million and PLN 170 million per month and 1.4% of sales surplus income exceeding PLN 170 million per month. The Polish Trade and Distribution Organization, the Confederation of Leviatan, Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry, also attended our meeting, sent comments to the committee. He also attended a meeting of one of the lobbyists who represented the Chamber of Electronic Economy. During the committee meeting there were important questions, mainly related to the compatibility of this law with European Union law, compliance with the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal and on the impact on entrepreneurs, including aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as compliance with European Union law is concerned, we have been made clear that this tax does not fall within the scope of the tax harmonisation of the European Union, such as VAT or excise duty, and therefore does not fall within the scope of European law. As far as the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, it was mainly a question of the entry of this tax during the financial year. We have been made clear that, as this tax is charged in monthly cycles, the date of its entry into force during the financial year is in line with the case law of the Constitutional Court. Here was an analogy to the copper tax that was known to the Senators of the State, which functions similarly and also entered into force during the financial year. Following the discussion, the Commission adopted a resolution after hearing the opinion, including the views of the representatives of the organisation, and adopted a vote in which 5 senators voted in favour and 2 abstentions. The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[He's still got a question.]] I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. If I may, I would ask you to indicate in which countries of the European Union, where such a tax applies. Is it even charged? If so, in which countries and on what scale. That's the first question. Second question. Where did 17 million come from? Why 17, not 7, 10, 20, 100? Where did this come from? And a third. Why were online shops taxed, which also deal with retail sales and are becoming more and more popular? These are my three questions. And save me for the next series.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. These questions were raised during the committee's deliberations. I thank the senator very much for his task, because this will allow me to better pass on the information we received during the sitting. With regard to this type of tax, the information we have obtained shows that it operates in several countries of the European Union. There were examples of Hungary, France and Spain, if memory serves me right. Yeah, I remember it well, Spain. The information we have also received from EuroCommerce shows that this tax is currently being introduced in Romania. There are different ways of operating this tax, it is calculated differently, not always from revenue, as we decided to do in Poland. In France, for example. is calculated from the commercial area, there is an appropriate indicator. As far as the value of taxation is concerned, I would allow myself to pass on... We had no such information at the committee meeting, but the Minister will certainly be able to answer. As far as online shops are concerned, this question appeared at a committee meeting. Here, first of all, attention was paid to the differences in online trade and retail trade taking place in a trading establishment and other obligations, to the greater extent of the seller's obligations in an online shop, in particular the need to accept returns of goods, as well as to the other functioning of such trade. In the case of online shops there is also cross-border trade. So the government, the Sejm, as well as we propose that online trade should not fall within the scope of the contested law. Where did the amount of PLN 17 million come from? That's a very good question. This is about EUR 5 million. The turnover of up to EUR 5 million defines small and medium-sized... [[More like four.]] [[Three.]] Depends on the course. In accordance with European law, about EUR 5 million defines small and medium-sized enterprises. And small and medium-sized enterprises are empowered to receive various types of support, they are priority actors when it comes to support from the Member States of the European Union. It's a correctly calculated height. This tax is not intended to cover small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the intention. That's 17 million zlotys. It's 204 million a year. When all this is done, it will turn out to be about EUR 5 million. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: 50 million.]] [[50 million.]] Sorry, 50 million. Minister, thank you very much. It's good to have a finance minister who'll make it better, he'll notice a mistake. I'm sorry, I'm responsible too quickly. I guess that's it for the questions you're asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u200	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask Senator Rulewski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Quietly tell me where you exchange the euro at this rate. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Rooster responded positively with regard to the doubt that was sent by e-mail and, as I have heard, was discussed. It's a matter of industry networks like Traffic. The Movement says she's gonna be kicked really hard. I believe that because the Ajents and those who serve it all on different terms are in a very poor material situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u202	Indeed, Traffic sent its position to the committee. Unfortunately, this position was received after the meeting and it was not possible to address the issues raised by the Movement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u203	Thank you very much. Now you're gonna ask Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u204	Mr. Senator, in addition to Senator Jan Rulewski's question on the Movement, I will make a motion for amendment. I also have a question. Perhaps the senator was talking about it. If that's the case, you did it so fast, I couldn't catch it. What are the expected revenues from the introduction of both rates of taxation, and has there been a simulation of where these measures will come from? What I'm talking about is how much revenue there will be from hypermarkets, from big networks, and how much from smaller networks like Movement or Leviathan. Did any of the retailers who would be subject to tax outside the Movement indicate that the tax could jeopardise the existence of the establishments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u205	In addition to the position of the Movement, which, as I said, has been affected after the commission's work, we have not received any signals from other entrepreneurs that this tax could threaten their existence or lead them to bankruptcy. In addition to the position of the Movement, we have not received any other such posts. But I think I'm going to allow myself to be digressed in a situation where even the slightest infection can knock him down, it doesn't necessarily have to be something like a tax. But it's just that in general... Recently I had the opportunity to read the financial information of the company Traffic and I think the problem lies elsewhere. When I read this talk of the Movement, I felt that it was a search for justification for internal circumstances in the outside world. But please take this as my personal comment, not as a committee report, of course, because I have gone a little beyond the framework of the report. As regards the profitability indicator of commercial activities, during the meeting we received information from the Ministry of Finance that this indicator averages 1.8%. Depending on the number of employees, it ranges from 1.5%. up to 3.7% And that's the profitability they make... that's the highest profitability of the largest networks that employ the most employees. And mostly they will be the payer of this tax. In addition, during the meeting, I informed the senators about the publicly available position of the EuroCommerce association, which referred to the level of the tax charged depending on the country of origin of the traders or network owners in the part of the retail trade involving food trade. There are various types of trade: household appliances... However, this publicly available EuroCommerce position refers to the food trade section and indicates that the 10 largest foreign food retail chains will pay 95.3% of the total tax to be levied on this activity. This applies only to the retail trade in food; this is the information we have received. As far as the retail trade in other products is concerned, the situation is different, it can even be said that it is a bit the other way around, but it must already be the Minister who has the details. After the meeting of the committee, the Ministry of Finance sent us a detailed table showing how, depending on turnover, the tax will be charged to individual traders. This table, which shows in detail how it looks, is available on the committee's website. Unfortunately, I didn't take it with me, so I can't quote it right now, but it's available to the public.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u206	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u207	I have a question. Did PGNiG because you mentioned in the report that PGNiG was involved in the work Will he also be the payer of this tax? PGNiG sells gas to both retail and wholesale customers. And when it comes to retail sales, why don't you explain to me how you're gonna draw the line? Because big shops, where goods are, for example. much cheaper, they sell retail, but they also buy entrepreneurs for further resale or other activities... How do you want to tell the difference? And my third question. If a given network reaches a ceiling of PLN 17 million and the consumer returns the goods, corrections, how do I settle this tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u208	Thank you very much. As regards the marketing of natural gas supplied to consumers, I would like to point out that Article. The 7th Act excludes this sale. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 The point is that retail sales of electricity and natural gas supplied to consumers via distribution networks, heat supplied to consumers, water supplied to consumers, solid fuels are not subject to tax... So that art. The 7th Act contains such exclusion. It also refers to gas hydrocarbons used for heating purposes, gas oils intended for heating purposes, medicines, foods for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. So that the shut-downs are very wide. And I don't think there's anything to worry about here. PGNiG's position was about how to interpret this exclusion. I think that after discussions and explanations received from the Ministry of Finance, PGNiG will no longer have such doubts. [[Thank you...]] [[Yet...]] [[Senator Dowhan again, right?]] [[Distinction...]] Oh, and a refund, I forgot. [[And an adjustment if someone returns the goods and the store reaches the retail ceiling...]] Yeah, yeah, I just noticed. I've written down a question about this return of goods. This issue was discussed. The tax shall be charged and paid in monthly cycles and the return of the goods effected in the following month shall therefore reduce the taxable amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u209	Thank you. [[In monthly cycles...]] Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u210	This may be more of a question for the Minister, but I'll try to ask them... [[I think the microphone...]] [[Voice from the room: The card is gone.]] [[Without the card, it doesn't work.]] Okay, that's good. I have three questions. Isn't the legislator afraid... and can ensure that the new law doesn't cause such a situation that the fiscal burdens of large commercial networks will be passed on to suppliers? Suppliers are, as we know, most often Polish companies, small and medium-sized, which, let's agree, do not have large capital and do not have as good economic facilities as large-area shops. And what about these suppliers? That's the first question. Second: isn't the legislator so afraid that in order to offset fiscal costs, large commercial networks will save themselves, for example, by firing workers? And has any research been made on how this law will simply affect the Polish labour market? And the third question. The bill will certainly reduce the revenue of local government units. How does the legislator want to make it even? Because we all know here that the financial situation of many local authorities is not the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u211	Thank you very much. I answer the first question: yes, we discussed at the committee meeting the possibility of transferring this tax cost to suppliers. The explanations we have received have settled our doubts. We believe that where large commercial networks are involved, it is possible to move and cooperate with other smaller entities that do not pay the tax. However, leaving on the market a huge number of traders, traders, who will not pay the tax mentioned here, means, in short, that there is someone to sell, there is an alternative, there may simply be a shift in distribution channels. And I already personally believe that I am saying this outside of the report. It's too good a move. I repeat: I consider this to be a very good action. Because, ladies and gentlemen, since 2007 around 50,000 shops have been closed in Poland, which in some sense indirectly answers the question about the impact of this law on the labour market. If we want small shops to grow, these smaller, mostly Polish companies, and there you need employees... These stores will somehow gain a certain handicap, so to speak, in a competitive fight. The labour market too, I think, will be given a positive boost due to the expected increase in turnover in these smaller shops. After all, this year's trade received a huge gift from the government, the 500+ programme, which brought a significant increase in turnover in trade; billions of zlotys from taxes go to fiscal cash registers mainly traders in shops in Poland. And this is a very important injection. I would even see it in terms of some equivalence: yes, there is a tax burden on these traders, but on the other hand, they receive huge support because the 500+ programme is support. not only for Polish families, but also for Polish entrepreneurs, mainly in the commercial sector. [[Voice from the hall: Still about the local government...]] Local government, yes, still local government. We didn't discuss that. I saw in the transcripts of the parliamentary debate that the tax loss was estimated at tens of millions of zlotys, but I would pass on this question to the Minister asking for clarification. In any case, I would like to say that I have had the impression after reading the Seym transcripts that this defect is completely negligible. [[Thank you very much. That's why I warned you at first that perhaps this question is for the Minister...]] Yes, the Minister will have... [[I'm after talking to the local government, and they asked me to explain it.]] Of course. [[Thank you very much.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u212	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the president? Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u213	In the context of the last question related to the supply of media such as gas, heat, energy, there is indeed an exclusion. Maybe that's a good thing, 'cause it's hard for state companies to pay tax. This was the idea to support Polish companies, which is obviously not equal. But for example. The supplier of heat in Zielona Góra is 100% company or 99% French, which is a foreign company, which is what you want to tax. And why won't she pay and the French market will pay? How are they different? Are you afraid it'll be passed on to the ultimate consumer? If the price of heat is to rise, then the prices of goods offered on Western commercial networks are likely to increase.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u214	This was not discussed at the committee meeting, but I will allow myself to express my opinion on this issue on the example of Gdansk, where the German owner, in fact the city of Leipzig, is the owner of a municipal company providing heat to the inhabitants of Gdansk. If you go to the website of this company and read the information from the Leipzig City Council, it will turn out that they express their joy that the revenue generated in the city of Gdansk allows you to reduce the energy costs paid by the people of Leipzig and offer the people of Leipzig much better services on better terms. Of course, this is what the sales policy of such companies has led to. • enterprises that are natural local monopolists by previous governments that did not care to protect monopolies. Monopoly doesn't sell unless you want to finance someone's better life in another city, in short. Yes? Better living in another city. We see the mistakes of this policy. So if the senator cares about the fate of this French supplier in Green Mountain, if I remember correctly... Well, you can say that these are the consequences of mistakes that have been made in the past. But this law does not distinguish taxpayers according to the country of origin of capital. After all, this law, in accordance with the rules in force in the European Union, introduces a tax which is equal to that for all those operating in the Republic of Poland. That's what happens. I've quoted the data here. In terms of food trade in Poland, it is dominated by foreign networks. It's true. And this was the reason of many speeches and big debates also during the election campaign, when Polish entrepreneurs, Polish shopkeepers said that the Polish state allowed more than 50,000 Polish shops to close as a result of competition from these large networks, which, having easier access to capital and having foreign sales techniques, had a great competitive advantage. Let me stress once again: this law does not differentiate taxation depending on the country of origin of capital.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u215	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u216	We're already in the middle of a discussion here, Senator. That's not what I meant. You gave an example of a company in Leipzig. The company from Gdansk can also carry out the same activities in Leipzig. It's not forbidden... [[I didn't hear the Germans swap property. I'm sorry I took your word for it, but I didn't say that. I have not heard of someone in the European Union converting national municipal property into foreign communal property.]] Maybe you haven't heard, I haven't heard either, but that's not a good example for this bill. It's like today we're comparing the Lotus company that sells its fuel abroad or buys it. Now the first deliveries from Iran have arrived. She bought it cheaper, sold it more expensive and in Poland something, something there is better to live. That's not exactly a good example. And it is not true that this tax is equal for all, because it is not equal. For example, the thresholds that you propose limit the possibilities of one and the other give handicap. But that's what I'm gonna ask the Minister. I don't want to go into polemics. Senator Rooster asked me to speed things up because he has important family matters at home, so I'm going to try briefly... Thank you. [[Thank you very much. I don't think the questions are...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u217	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. There is a Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk. Would the Minister like to take the floor and present the position of the government? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the government's position on the Retail Act. Senator rapporteur Grzegorz Bierecki has answered many questions. I thank him for the work he has done in drawing up this law, because it was sent from the Sejm to the committee that you are directing. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the Budget Act has designed revenue from retail tax at the level of PLN 2 billion. Already during the campaign preceding the last parliamentary elections, declarations were made on the introduction of such a tax as a response to demand directly from the retail sector. Let me put it this way: the expectation of introducing this tax was so strongly emphasized that in the suggestions that we received after we declared the introduction of this tribute, there were much higher amounts. At the Congress of Law and Justice in Katowice, entrepreneurs demanded that this amount be up to PLN 6.8 billion. Finally, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło decided to introduce this tribute, but, as I said, the projection of revenue was limited to PLN 2 billion. It took us months to discuss how to meet the demands of the environment, which expected us to level the playing field in this market. We wanted to do it in such a way that we could stop the process that my previous speaker was talking about. The process of eliminating small shops from this industry, most often family shops. This was not an easy task. Time has shown how difficult it was to define in this law a good definition of an entity subject to the obligation to pay this tax. Why was that difficult? It seemed simple to all of us that corporations, large companies and commercial networks have a certain ownership structure, but in fact it turned out that it was not so easy to describe all these links, because in this area, in the commercial sector, they are implemented at the level of trademarks, franchises and all these proprietary configurations resulting from the Commercial Companies Code. Believe me, we've been trying to create this definition for months. This was worked not only in government environments, the Ministry of Finance, but also in the parliamentary team or committee. It turned out that the wording of this definition is very difficult, and even impossible, because we did not want to lead to such a situation that entities that use branding or have very small shares could not benefit from the amount of free money determined each time, in one or another approach to this law. And that made a very large group of people unhappy about it. Anyway, dissatisfaction was manifested by society, which I'm sure you'll remember. The document that we have ahead of us now contains a high amount of exemption, which has already been discussed by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, the exemption of PLN 17 million per month and PLN 204 million per year. This seems to be a consensus, as the amount for defining small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union is set here. It's about the 50 million euros. The definition contained in the Act led to a catalogue of entities subject to the obligation to pay this tribute according to our calculations being reduced to less than 200 entities. I'm careful with these estimates, but I think it's under 200 entities. Why did we have a problem before, when we started with this law, that so many entities did not accept the conditions set out in it? Well, it turns out... This helped us learn more about Polish trade. We have learned how the entities we thought had their own local base, often cooperatives employing employees themselves, have only become the exhibit of large wholesale traders with whom they have contracts that are difficult and even impossible to terminate, because they provide for powerful contractual penalties, a ban on trading for a certain period, for example. for six months, and they're working on a one-and-a-half-percent margin, about which their shelves supplier knows everything, i.e. he knows the fixed costs, the labour costs, energy costs, rent costs, rental of premises, etc. It was therefore understood that reaching to these entities and extending this scale above the number I was talking about was quite unjustified. And in this way, ladies and gentlemen, trying to meet these demands, which also concerned, I will remind you, in the original phase, for example. differences in rates, the reduction of this rate to one But there were ideas going the other way, e.g. differentiation of these rates for trade on Saturdays and Sundays, weekends We've come a really long way, and we've found ourselves in this place, which seems to be the least controversial. This does not mean that there is no controversy, because there is probably no tax and no tax which would not cause any controversy, but we have tried to keep it to a minimum and it seems that this minimum has been achieved here. As for the data that have not yet been mentioned here, let me say something else, Ladies and Gentlemen, High Izbo. Namely, if the Act enters into force from 1 September, we estimate that this year the gross revenue from retail tax will amount to PLN 473 million and the net revenue will amount to PLN 383 million, because payment of this tax will reduce the tax base and lower the CIT tax revenue. That's why we're counting it this way, and we're giving this amount, like, two times... In answer to these questions, which are still here, I can say that we estimate, in the assessment of the impact of the regulation, that the loss of income from CIT tax to the cash register of local governments, units of local government, will amount to PLN 82.1 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in the form that this law is now in, it was sent to the Senate after the third reading in the Sejm. I ask the High House to accept it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u220	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions, but they're related. The work on this type of law was already in force in the term of 2001 and 2005 and I also participated in it only that at that time we were talking about taxation of trade on account of the area of the facility in which the trade was carried out, i.e. the scope of the subject matter was determined by the area of the facility. The state went towards income, the size of income. Why am I talking about this? Because I have a question: why did you change it? And a second question about it. Income can easily be changed in the sense that it can be divided by e.g. division of the company, and with the surface of the object it is no longer so easy, i.e. the subject range is once established stable. Of course, you can divide the object with partition walls, no problem, but the initial size of the building is fixed, that's in the building permit. Are we okay with this or not? So the question is: why didn't you choose this way of determining the subject matter range, which is more stable, harder to circumvent? For all we know, some entities have already chosen this method and are simply divided into smaller entities, so as not to pay this tax. And I have an additional question about that: isn't this 17 million limit too low? Because that's all... I'm sorry. Too tall. Isn't she too tall? 'Cause that's what an average big store does. With the division of the company into... such a store as a stand-alone unit is within this limit and will not pay such a tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u222	I will say this: profitability, even within the industry itself, definitely depends on the assortment that is offered. It's different anyway. in the food industry, another in the furniture industry, another in the clothing industry. When they tried to carefully analyse the effects of such a tax, because from that we started, it turned out that there was no simple correlation between profitability, the scale of revenue and the surface. If someone taxed the landlords or the landlords who built them in order to run a certain business, this would create more property tax. I don't want to use that word. It's not from sales. This was by no means possible to reach consensus because the profitability of the industry, different stock rotations, etc. was significantly different. That's why we left this revenue parameter. The question is, wasn't it set too high? This is indeed a high threshold, but... of course you can try to avoid this threshold by dividing the entity. However, I will remind you that this month it entered into force so-called. A tax evasion clause. In a situation where entities will use a division only and exclusively to circumvent the tax system... Such measures may be considered inappropriate and it will not be possible to circumvent this tax. So that we have security here. It seems to us that it will be used effectively for those entities which will use the division to optimise tax and circumvent the provisions of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u223	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, it's a brief additional question. Well, maybe we didn't understand each other. The subject range is determined on the basis of the size of the store, but the tax is paid not on the area of the store, but on the income obtained in this store. Then there wouldn't be the problem you were talking about at the beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u224	But I'm gonna stick to my sentence. In each of the sectors where the activity is appropriate to the area is carried out, there is definitely a different profitability. Putting the surface parameter itself was definitely disrupting the whole picture...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u225	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u226	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like you to be more specific... At the end of your speech, not when you answered the questions, you spoke about the tax affecting local governments. I didn't really get it. I don't know if you were talking about CIT or... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Mr. Senator, I told you that this would be less impact on local government banks, to local government units for CIT tax.]] That's how much smaller it's gonna be? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes, 81.2... Excuse me, 82.1 million.]] Well, then I've written it down well. I have a question. Once again, the general revenue of local governments will in some way be reduced by resources, which maybe, or rather, certainly, because we are in the budget period, have saved in the draft budgets. Will it be somehow returned to the local authorities, and if so, in what form? Are local governments supposed to call for that? And second question. You said in your speech that at the Congress of Law and Justice businessmen had repeatedly addressed I understand that to you It's about... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes.]] ...to introduce such a tax. It's a big surprise to me, because it's rare for someone to ask for a tax. I understand the introduction of the tax itself, but I don't think it's for me... What kind of business group was that? It's hard to define. I guess it must have been the charity ones, or how else... how do you mean? [[Oh, Robert...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u227	Sir, Mr. Senator, let me understand... I'll tell you what I think. This tax, according to many people, was supposed to be a tool to balance the conditions of competitiveness. Large operators benefit from economies of scale; by performing e.g. advertising, promoting their networks, their products throughout the country. A small entity that operates e.g. in one facility or in two places, having other costs related to logistics, with goods, does not benefit from this scale effect. Therefore, this tax also considered elements of the level playing field in this sector, in the retail sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u228	Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u229	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question related to Senator Czerwinski's question. Well, there is a danger due to a clause that entered into force on 15 July 2016... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes.]] ...about tax evasion. In turn, the articles of the tax ordainment from Article. 119a to Art. 119l and related Article. The 119c are talking about the artificiality of actions and the circumstances to be adopted in terms of achieving the tax advantage. However, companies often declare that these are different reasons than tax avoidance, e.g. one of the major players in the RTV market has separated several hundred companies in June and July. The Ministry of Finance probably already knows that. It's about a company called Media Expert that's set up these companies, supposedly 287. These are companies that have one partner. It is a company called Terg from Złotowa, i.e. the operator of the Media Expert network. And they explain it, so to speak, motivating employees, improving working conditions and activities. So I don't know if it'll be enforceable. Why don't you take a stand on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u230	Mr. Senator, without administrative proceedings investigating such a case individually, we may not be fully aware of this at the end of the trial, and we will not have such a settlement. Of course, there is no perfect regulation that will be free from such doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[Jackie, don't break your leg.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay, he'll make it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u232	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I have a question for the Minister... [[Turn on the mike, please.]] I have a question and kind of a request. The question is whether it is necessary to introduce this tax in the case of kiosks I'm basically talking about trade. The area of which, which is included in the construction law, is defined as a maximum of 15 m; well, that depends on the place. In these networks I do not share Senator Bierecki's view here, the margins are very low, and therefore they fall, especially in the suburbs, and the population is needed. Another question. Don't you think it would be possible at least temporarily, before they adapt to this, to put them off? I would like to remind you, Minister, that when we introduced fiscal cash registers, we also introduced a cash machine in the case of 25,000 fiscal cash registers, and then we put it into installments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u233	Mr. Senator, thank you for this question, extremely difficult. As I said, the definition contained in the Act was developed after many months of agreement and after taking into account all or almost all of the demands. As it turns out, it was not possible to include them all. Indeed, this definition is universal in nature and may also cause such situations, I would say, clearly illustrating this tax situation as well. We weren't able to. Nobody was able to. To write a definition that would only be rational, that is, it did not contain elements of accidents that you just called, which were somewhere... [[These are exceptions.]] We can't, we can't write down any exceptions, because then, it seems, the defence of this regulation in correspondence with the European Commission would be difficult or even impossible. [[We've excluded money from the obligation to enter immediately, which is unevenly...]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth saying that when this tax starts to work, we will have more knowledge, more experience. In his case, there is no such simple reference to taxes applied in other countries. He is not the currency of any such regulation in the country of the European Union, it is not a simple transfer of such a model. I think that after months of such a tax, we will see even more arguments for better writing this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u235	However, Minister, there are exceptions that make not everyone a payer of this tax. Please tell us what the estimates are, what percentage of total retail sales, as expected, will be subject to this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u236	May I present some statistics that have not yet been mentioned here, and allow me to interest you in this view of statistics. Well, if we look at the origin of capital, in the foreign sense of national capital, we will see that the structure of Polish retail trade in basic industries, according to the criterion of origin of capital, indicates a very large diversity. For example, according to data for 2014 this is the case: in the food industry the largest shareholders have 63% shares, of which 52% Foreign entities and 11% Polish entities; in the clothing and footwear industry the biggest players have 41% market, including foreign ownership is 22% and Polish ownership 19% ; in the RTV and household appliances and IT industry, the market share of the largest companies was 64% , of which 14% constituted foreign ownership and 50% Polish property. We have one more study on the structure of taxpayers of the proposed retail tax at the level of estimated annual revenue. And we have the following structure of taxpayers according to this estimated annual income: taxpayers over 2 billion 244 million ; between 1 billion and 2 billion 244 million and 12% ; in the range of 0.5 billion to 1 billion 25%; in the range of 220 million to 500 million 45%; in the range of 204 million to 220 million inclusive - Sixty-six That's the kind of data you might be interested in, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u237	Can't you show what it looks like globally without breaking into categories? E.g. so that if retail trade generates 300 billion PLN, 250 billion PLN from this trade will be subject to tax? Can you give me that information? What percentage of retail sales will be subject to tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u238	Well, I don't want to distort this information right now, because I don't have it in front of me, and I don't want to give you the wrong information about it. [[Then send it in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u239	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u240	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you didn't answer me about these local governments. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Yes, local governments.]] Self-government. Because we're in the middle of a financial year, local governments have budgets, and suddenly the receipts that were estimated aren't going to get them. Second question. Will the Sports Totalizator pay that tax as well? And the third question. Can you name known or reputable or large Polish commercial networks? Do you know any of these?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u241	I'm sorry about the big commercial networks, but in what context are you... [[Polish, typically Polish.]] Sir, I'm not going to list entities here because we didn't make a distinction because of the origin of capital. A very clean income criterion is applied here. It is universal, objective and, as such, is to be an argument to the European Commission that no special burden has been applied here for such or other entities. That's why this question seems illegal to me. Of course, you can ask for anything, but I am avoiding the answer, from mentioning any entities here, even to promote them from here. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a matter of concern for local government revenue. If we divided this amount of PLN 82.1 million into local government funds in Poland, it would come out really very modest, small amount, certainly possible to offset in the budgets of local government units. At the same time, I would like to assure you that, with regard to the current implementation of the budget and the revenue generated from the various titles to the state budget, on the basis of the data we have for the first half of the year, we can say that these revenues are significantly higher than last year. As far as VAT is concerned, more than PLN 4.5 billion in terms of CIT, just PLN 0.3 billion in terms of PIT, PLN 1.7 billion in terms of excise duty, PLN 1.5 billion in terms of excise duty. Therefore, I believe that local authorities will not feel at all the minimum amount that would result from such a simple, non-dynamic view of the effects of this law. [[Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski...]] [[And a totalizator.]] It won't be covered. Sorry, I finished. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u242	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u243	Minister, I'll admit that with every answer, my anxiety is growing. Well, if we build a shop with an initial surface, it's a constant value. If there is an income that can be divided into different companies in different ways and then fight against this entity that has carried out such an operation In general, this ends on a judicial basis, the first effective, large revenues from this tax will actually be in a few years. I don't know if you've chosen the best path, the best path in terms of the issue. - Okay. - Okay, okay, okay, okay, To determine the scope of the entity, i.e. the person who pays. I don't know what the profitability is, because it's not income tax, it's income tax. In short, if you are engaged in a commercial activity in the food industry, let's assume, in a facility with an area of more than 2 000 m2, then you must pay a tax, if in a smaller facility, you do not pay. In this way we protect those who conduct food activities in smaller facilities. The same thing we do with RTV: if you drive in a larger object, you pay, if in a smaller one, you don't pay. As I remember, that was the logic of the tax when they were talking about it when they started talking about it. At the moment, it's become some kind of income tax with a weird subject range. I would also like, in addition to pointing out this point, to make the Minister aware of a certain article, namely the article. 6 of this bill. Well, it appears in this article in the mouth. 2 such an emboss: referred to in paragraph 2. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is the reference, the reference to the earlier paragraph, to the paragraph. 1. This reference appeared in print no. 691 at the seymical stage, and it was not in print no. 615, i.e. in the input printing, in the project that entered the Seym. Most interestingly, this reference was not considered at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee. There's one print, there's another print, and there's no change, there's no difference between both prints. I'm talking about a committee that could only make such a change between first and second readings. I'd like to draw your attention to that. Why? That's kind of the second question clou. Well, here we have a situation, that mouth. 2 refers to the paragraph. 1, and in the mouth. 1 actually defines the term that's in the mouth. 2. As a result, we have a cyclical appeal, actually a cyclical definition. One term is defined first, refers to the other, the other refers to the first. I'm sorry, but this recipe with this nuisance that has now been added may just be illegible and maybe read the entire bill. I would ask that the legislative services you must have dealt with this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u244	Thank you so much for the suggestion. We will analyze this issue and check, exhaustively, whether it is indeed as you have observed, that there has been a sequence of events in relation to this record, and that there is a continuance there. And as for the first question, I have no new arguments. All I can regret is that the work you were doing got stuck at some point. Apparently, they have also encountered very serious restrictions and obstacles, problems that have become like a Gordian node, unsolvable. We cut it all the way we presented it. [[Voice from the hall: The term of office is over. And here's a good...]] [[Bravo Minister.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u245	You're welcome, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u246	Minister, I asked... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] I think you can hear it now. I already asked you that. Suppose on the Polish station Orlenu or Lotus... They will be the payer of the tax discussed here, because they sell fuel both in detail and for commercial activities. If sales are made to commercial activities, such sales by law shall not be taxed. [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: It is not taxed.]] Tell me how retail sales will be distinguished from non-detail sales. Because not everyone has an NIP today, not everyone records an invoice. Anyone can take an invoice, and you don't have to put it in the cost. How will all this be recorded and accounted for? Wouldn't there be such a trap that the bill would be underprecise and could be interpreted differently during the audit? That's my first question. The second question: are the tax offices prepared for checks and have they therefore received any guidelines, they have tools in the form of, I don't know, software for checking and verifying the data mentioned here? And my third question: isn't the deadline proposed by you for the entry into force of this law too short? Because it's not that easy to re-examine the program today. The work continues, your ideas have changed. We need to verify a program that will have to verify sales in different positions, fiscal programs, computer programs, accounting programs. And you want to bring it all in right away. Do you realize that this also takes time for commercial facilities to adapt to this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u247	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u248	I would like to say this: with regard to the date of entry into force of the Act, it has been postponed in the course of the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. In the final phase she was shifted another month. We think that this time is sufficient for, as I said, less than 200 entities to be able to implement the calculation programmes. As far as the IRS is concerned, we're prepared to be properly informed here, actually control everything. And when it comes to the first question, the definition is simple in our sense. If the buyer is a retail entity, the taxable base will be calculated on that amount of revenue. [[Senator Robert Dowhan: But how do we verify that? And who...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u249	Thank you, Minister. [[No, Mr. Marshal, that's a fundamental question, that's a fundamental issue with regard to this bill.]] One more question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u250	How to verify, Minister... How to distinguish retail sales from non-detail sales? Well, because the bill in question is only taxing... [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] Well, it can't be in writing, because today we want to vote. Unless we don't vote and the bill we're discussing here falls off the Senate agenda today. Tell me how, suppose, a gas station... How is an employee supposed to verify how a computer is supposed to verify sales? 'Cause taking invoices... Anyone can take an invoice today, even if they're out of business. How do you verify that? Well, there's no way that's gonna happen today. I say that on the example of the station, it's the same in the shops. After all, the Minister also has an NIP, you can take the invoice today. Will someone be checking you out? Will you have to bring the registration from the court, the business certificate? It's not like that. Everyone goes and buys today. Anyone can ask for an invoice, you, me, and nothing about business... [[There's a dog buried here.]] [[Question...]] How do I verify that? After all, this is really a clou of this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u251	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I don't have an answer for you. I believe that a person who is not engaged in an economic activity will not accept an invoice which could distort the whole picture of this situation as regards sales and sales volume which will be subject to taxation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u253	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Dowhan. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u254	One last question, because you just confirmed to me that this bill is another bullshit. I'm honest about it, and I admit it, even though I had nothing to do with selling it, and that tax doesn't apply to me. I am speaking purely honestly because there must always be transparent rules in the economy. In this case, those rules don't exist because you believe someone won't take them. And if someone takes such an invoice, who's going to be punished for not paying that tax? Today we talk about penalties, tax evasion, it comes from the state. I have a question that you don't have to answer: have you or the well-known people in the ministry who prepared this bill ever worked in commerce?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u255	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u256	I'm gonna leave this question as rhetorical, it doesn't have much to do with the bill and its records.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u257	Thank you, Minister. Senator Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u258	A brief remark referring to what Senator Dowhan was asking. Just because someone's taking the invoice doesn't mean they're going to sell back... We know that companies take invoices by purchasing many goods, but not for resale of this purchase. So that the collection of invoices is, however, a weak criterion for defining retail and non-retail trade.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u259	Thank you, Senator, Are there other questions? No. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Janczyk: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Wcisła. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As you can see, Minister, this bill raises many questions that remain unanswered and is controversial. But it is also controversial because you have been working on this bill for a very long time. I know that the budget needs money, in short, and looking for different forms of finding this money today is of course useful, but we just need to find forms that will be fair. This bill is not fair because you can't punish the big ones for not being small. You can't do that. Minister, we went abroad, and everyone saw what the market looks like in the West. And if someone didn't drive, he'd watch TV, and the movies would show what brands looked like. Was it such a great art to build a market? Today we resent that foreign companies have brands. Did they have to go to Poland Portuguese and build brands so that today we suddenly know what they look like? It's not a play. Market is not a complex building, as it turns out, it is not an industrial plant. Of course, it has to meet certain requirements, but in fact, brands are made in different places today. Mostly they don't have windows, they don't have different things and they work. This isn't some big play. But the market... And that's where I won't say yes and we talked about it... I'd like you to... 'Cause it might come in handy. I think so. Because that's why we're here together, to work out a strategy to make this tax that's going to be charged fair and equal, and So is the election. It's common. That's what I'd like, 'cause that's what's missing... I'm out of rhythm because of these conversations. Oh, yeah, the Portuguese had to come in so we could see what brands look like. In fact, these brands were here. Of course, there were no goods, but there were PSS, GS, and there were large-area facilities. I'd also like to talk about costs. Because you said these little stores are demanding that we tax the big ones. Except I used to run a small shop and a small store is small costs, too. They're mostly family businesses, sometimes they're passionate, and to pass the time. It doesn't count for hours, it doesn't count for overtime, it doesn't count for other things. And in order for a big store to be built, Minister, you really have to go after it. First of all, you have to get into plans that haven't been in cities so far, because it cost a lot to change plans. Surfaces like this cost a lot of money. It is about the rates that are hard to imagine for us in this House. Large brands are also a large cluster of people who work not only at the cash register. There's talk of cashiers, but there's people working on the whole distribution of that stuff, marketing. So it's hard to say today that big stores only have a big profit and they don't have a cost. A big store, a big company has a lot of costs. And I find it hard to agree that this tax, as you said, was suggested at your congress by businessmen. Maybe so, but maybe this small group didn't do it for themselves. I can't believe anyone who has any business and came to the congress said, "Tax us." That's kind of a saying for me... I don't really understand that there was such a thing. I didn't see it on TV. That's why I don't understand why such a massive attack on Western capital. You can't buy in these stores. Then these turnovers will be smaller...you can buy in smaller facilities. And I can't believe that you or I... Of course, I buy small, large, gas stations and more. I think we're all taking advantage of these large surfaces, because they give us different opportunities. Other options for choosing the product. You can even touch that stuff, look at the labels. And that's not what you buy from behind the counter sometimes. In large markets we have various kinds of promotions, we have a wide range of goods, we have the freedom to buy. Today Poles are happy to use it. They seem to have accepted it. If they didn't accept it, there wouldn't be people there, there wouldn't be shopping. Anyway, that reminds me. I don't want to make a mistake. One propaganda video on which the President of Law and Justice shopped and made it in the Western disclaimer. Right? He didn't make them in a Polish shop. Let's say in Polish. Because it's hard today... what do you mean by "Polish"? What does "Western" mean? How good is Polish and how bad is Western? Well, that capital must have come to us too, Minister. We were a poor country, we're still a poor country. Someone had to teach us that trade, we didn't really know anything. The commune killed everything in us, we had boundaries closed. And the Western capital came, the future brands that we don't like so much today and taught us this trade, taught us order, taught us things. The things we have today. That's a plus, too, and you don't see it. I want to use the opinion of the Confederation of Leviathan on the Retail Tax Act. I want to read a few things that are important from the point of view of this bill. According to the assessment of the effects of the regulation, as a result of the introduction of a tax-free amount of PLN 17 million per month, the tax will pay no more than 200 companies. However, the impact of its introduction will also be felt by their employees, shareholders, suppliers and, above all, consumers. And that's the truth, Minister. At the very beginning of this term, as you well remember, we introduced a bank tax, which was also praised that nothing would change, that there would be no increase in loan instalments, fees, fees for cards, account keeping, electronic transfers, deposits to institutions... And in a few days' time, the largest bank, the Polish bank was the first to raise its fees, which of course met with protest, but these fees were also raised by other banks. Do you believe that the Western networks will allow themselves to reduce their revenues? Do you believe that this will not be covered once again by consumers? It's gonna be a transfer of money, they're gonna come in on the one hand, and they're gonna come out of people's pockets on the other. Well, the entrepreneur can count, especially the western one, once he's invested, how he's got a program, how he pays his lease payments, how he pays for the things he's invested in, you don't think he's gonna spend 1.4% all of a sudden. tax. He's about to call all the suppliers, correct the fee for the shelf, correct the delivery fee, extend the payment deadline soon, and if he doesn't like the Polish farmer or producer, he'll thank him. Today, the line of those willing to sell is very long. Today's art is just to find someone who buys, because... now we can buy anything, today you can buy anything, luxury goods, unluxury, we can download anything from all over the world... right? But who should I sell it to? And here it is, as the senator said, a dog buried. Because it's not art today to charge taxes and pretend he'll be paid. I'll read it further. The authors of the Act pass the truth, indicating that taxes on retail sales in a similar form also apply in other countries. As they admit, there are taxes depending on the size of shops in France and Spain, and there is a uniform linear tax in Hungary. 0,1% Okay, And he was taller, as I recall. Today's 0.1%. You could say he's unnoticeable to no one, for a little, for a big... At 0.1% Nobody would even I've got an amendment like that. He didn't protest. 0,1%, 0,2% or 0.3%. But 1.4% is already a serious margin. A serious margin, because for some products, Minister, the margin is about 1% today. For certain products... I was giving an example of a gas station. Do you know what the fuel margin is today between wholesale purchases and retail sales? Minister, this margin is sometimes not more than 1%. This is 0.8%, 0.7%, 0.5%. ... And if there are exchange rates differences when it comes to shopping and selling, sometimes one day you'll sell cheaper than the next day you'll have to buy back. This is the case for many products if they are converted into currencies. E.g. when it comes to fuel or other goods... [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...counting with currencies. How does that apply to business today? I'll ask for another five minutes. I don't want to extend, I'd like to write it down for another five minutes. I'm gonna finish 'cause I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u261	Good. Thank you, Senator. And you're Senator George Wright. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Retail tax is a classic example of fulfillment of the maxim that Margaret Thatcher told us: if the government claims to be giving something to someone, it means it's taking away from you because the government doesn't have its own money. And so, in the spotlights, an additional 500+ was introduced, but in the background, and much quieter, many laws are introduced, which dig up the budgets of local governments and citizens' pockets. Retail tax is precisely such a mechanism. After it's introduced to almost every penny we spend, we'll pay a penny or two to save the government budget. A penny or two isn't much, but it's paid every day, almost by everyone and almost every store, and it's going to be a huge sum sucked out of taxpayers' pockets so that later, with the sounds of a fanfare, you can give some of the money to the citizens, telling them what kind of human panic this government is. In total, out of these pennies they are to smack into the state budget 2 billion PLN, and from local governments they are to smash over 80 million PLN. Your Senate, I am aware that, as a senator of the opposition, I will not stop this mechanism. However, I ask the senators of all options to reflect on this matter and to understand that some retailers will not be able to bear this burden. This applies, for example, to retailers at small retail outlets operating in networks, often located in small towns and settlements. Many of them will cease to function because the host will stop paying off. They're gonna choose a benefit and a 500+ instead of a job that's gonna stop bringing them income. This also applies to the sale of articles, which for social reasons are covered by a small margin, such as: public or local transport tickets. It is obvious that no one is worried about this and no one will fill this gap, so the problem with buying a ticket or a newspaper will become our daily bread. In order to prevent such a reality to a small extent, I am asking for the exemption from retail taxation of commercial objects with an area of not more than 40 m2, including kiosks operating within the network, often the only trading points in small towns and the only places where the press can be bought. I would also like to ask for the exemption from this tax for the sale of transport tickets, mostly urban ones, often sold in agreement with local authorities with a minimum margin comparable to the proposed tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u263	Thank you, Senator. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just couldn't take it. There's a lot of speeches that don't serve anything. I consider prolonging the sitting, especially on Friday, and talking about nothing from such an important stand to be harmful. What Senator Dowhan said shows some absurd ignorance. You said you ran a store. I wonder why you locked him up. I think you're aware that one job in a big store is four jobs in a small shop. We'd have to start at the beginning, at the beginning, at history and at the wrong privatisation. I won't reach for Mr. Balcerowicz. I will mention his associate Jeffrey Sachs, who came to Poland and said: "I'm sorry, we didn't have everything worked out, now we would have done it differently." That's what you have to remember. Do you travel abroad? Tell me, what countries in the city centers are large-area shops? Which countries? In Italy, you will not find any city in which a large store would be in the centre. Can you find it in France? You won't. [[I'm afraid to go to France.]] [[Voice from the hall: In the United States.]] Now there's a different situation. Okay, we're not driving. Let us focus on what is in Poland. Construction of large-area centers in cities. Look at what these buildings look like. What's this? Are these buildings at all? These are, sir, modern barns, windows-free objects. If it even looked like it was architecture, I'd still hurt it. But there's no architecture there. And what kind of goods are there in these stores? What are you in pain for? Don't you understand that we have to get out of the middle-growth zone now? Look at the products there. These are products as cheap as possible. Have you seen the composition of these products? There's nothing to eat in there. And if you go to small shops... [[It's not for me. It's for the health department.]] I'm sorry, it's not for you. I'm talking to the whole room. Now let's talk small shops, family stores. Unfortunately, the product will be more expensive in them, but it will be a healthier product. And if we looked at finance, we'd see that a healthier product in the store is less money for health care. Mr Radziwiłł is not with us, but he would certainly say yes to me And a healthier society. We have to stop with the junk food from large-area shops. That's all that's on the shelves there isn't enough to consume. When I take the stuff and I see more than 3 E, I know it's poison. [[Bravo!]] What I was gonna say... At the moment, we have no other option to change the level of consumption and change the relationship between large-scale shops and Polish trade. Yeah, that's the problem, I totally agree, but this is some kind of attempt to make things right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u265	Thank you very much, Professor. Senator Robert Dowhan, five minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, Professor. In fact, it's short, concise and concise. I want to point out right away because I'm talking about the bill... First of all, I don't have a relationship with any company, I don't trade, and I don't have a store anymore. As you pointed out, I don't have it just because I took him out myself, not because I went bankrupt. I just started doing something else that was more fun and more revenue than working at the store. Because the shop job, Mr. Senator, it's really hard. I woke up at 4:00 a.m. to get supplies and stuff, but it was over 20 years ago, so these are old times. I didn't go bankrupt because there were big brands nearby... They didn't bother me at all, and they were an opportunity to compete, to compete healthyly. When it comes to the composition of products on shelves, the health care provider is a good recipient. If the products are inedible, you simply do not buy them, or they must disappear from the shelves. Most stores may be, but I always know what I'm buying, and I know what I'm eating. As far as I'm concerned, despite my age, I don't complain about products. But I don't hide that I like to buy at a trade fair where there's food straight from a farmer or straight from a chicken. Sometimes it may not be straight from the chicken, but we don't know that either... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is not a fight against shops, Senator. It's just tax honesty, and it's about all of us today... Whether you or I, if we're starting out, we want to be treated equally. You can't just make a scale for the big ones because they're big, and because they're somewhere in the city centers. In fact, these plans in the beginning as if they had let big brands into our centers, but today most of the trade is already taking place outside the cities. Today, the great trading hubs are out of town, out of big cities, and that no longer complicates trade. I wasn't in France, I admit it, well, last week I had a stopover, but I didn't even shop at the airport, although there aren't any big-store shops... But I remember they're in big cities in Italy... Well, I don't want to argue here. To conclude, I'd like to... I also have the results of various checks here. I'm not going to discuss this because my time is running out. This includes health, labour inspections, etc., which show that compliance with the law in large commercial networks is better than in small units. And most importantly, consumers make a large part of their purchases on large networks, because prices are usually lower and the range of products is larger. At a large scale of sales, production and distribution costs are decreasing and prices can therefore be reduced while maintaining an acceptable return on capital invested. The introduction of a progressive tax will therefore clearly be detrimental to consumers, as prices in large commercial companies will increase and in smaller ones will not decrease at all. Because I don't think you can imagine that if the market raises prices today, this smaller store will lower. There's no such thing. Finishing... I spoke to Senator Bierecki, told him I would be making amendments. I'd like this bill to come into force someday, but it's improved, so that it's honest, in terms of fairness to everyone, whether it's big or small. I have one motion to reject this bill in its entirety, and the other... As I said today, I think the time for this bill to enter is short because... It's almost August, before the president signs, it's August, and you want it to come in from September 1st... I don't know, maybe times have changed so much that this system will work tomorrow. But to verify it, calculate it, install it in stores and adjust it, it seems to me, a long time. There is still a trial period to verify this, so I would like to extend... I would like the Act to enter into force on 1 January 2017. It would also be in line with the financial year, Minister, which I didn't have time to tell myself because I wrote myself... Mostly... [[Time.]] Yeah, I'm almost done, last statement. In most companies, the financial period closes year-to-year. Of course, these may be different periods, as we know from economic law, but 99% companies operate on an accounting basis between January and December. And to start by making this tax even and unnoticeable, you can change it and verify it very often... But my amendment is that the tax charge should cover all retail outlets and that the rate should be as much as it is now in Hungary, because the Hungarians have come this way... [[Time, Mr. Senator, it's been seven minutes.]] ...that's 0.1%. tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u267	Thank you very much. [[Rejection of the bill is not an amendment, buddy. That's not an amendment.]] [[Voice from the room: No. Correction...]] Thank you. And there you go, Senator Krzysztof Frost speaking. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to say... To be honest, this is where my colleagues have asked me not to speak, but the many things you said to Senator Dowhan and Senator Wcislo made me wonder if you ever read this bill. [[It's tight.]] It's tight. Excuse me. I have a question: have you ever read this bill? Because the amount of things you've just said that aren't true, or that you haven't read the bill, or that you don't understand basic terms at all. I'm sorry I said that. I always try to be gentle. Sorry, you can't say things like that. I would like to comment on this, because the amendments Well, maybe the senator will come back, which Senator Wcissly has made, these are the amendments that just compromise him, they can't be considered at all. Ladies and gentlemen, before I comment on this, a few more general comments. First general remark. This tax is not a tax on foreign companies, as Mr Bierecki and Mr Minister mentioned. This is a tax that will pay all companies with a certain turnover threshold, whether it's foreign companies, whether it's domestic companies. It so happens that in the food industry there is a strong dominance of foreign capital, and of various capitals, but already in the clothing industry, I think that if it is necessary, the Minister can present these data. More than 50% of companies are companies with domestic capital and they will also pay, depending on the industries. We here do not in any way engage or look at the form of ownership... maybe not as much as the form of ownership as the form of origin of capital, whether it is national capital or foreign capital. So the introduction of this element at all is ridiculous. This is generally contrary to European Union law. If we had done something like this, we would have lost in a European court. Nobody does that. That's the first line. Second line. I'm sorry to have to answer both of your senators on the Platform. Mr. Senator said we should put this in the annual accounts. Well, we can't bring it in. We must introduce this in the monthly accounts because this would be undermined by the Constitutional Court. We can't introduce tax during a given period, we can do it in monthly cycles, because that's gonna apply to future... If we had introduced in the annual accounts, this year this tax could not have been introduced. Yes? That's another line. Senator Wcisla said we're moving money from one to the other... You compared it to the 500+ program. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how can you compare this? For this tax That's what the Minister said today. For September, October, November, December will be around 400 million, i.e. it will be 1.2 billion a year, and for the 500+ programme we give around 24 billion a year. These are completely different amounts and different sizes. Yes? It's gonna be some kind of dadascale in influence. The Minister said that the influence is growing... What are the most powerful influences? Well, we're growing VAT revenue because we're still trying to seal tax revenue. And yet to see a senator who doesn't have... The senator has tabled amendments that are simply embarrassing. Firstly, this tax applies to goods, so it does not generally apply to tickets, so that its amendment is without object in this respect. Secondly, Senator Wcissly proposes that... the senator says it includes franchise. That doesn't include franchise. That was the version that's been a long time... that's never been... No franchise is in. In the case of franchise, each entity has a different owner, and here it is mentioned that the owner must be the same. So this is also an unobtrusive amendment. Next case. I think she showed up here. I don't remember any of the senators talking about it anymore. The question of kiosks. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the kiosks, both the Movement and the Colporter, operate in the security system, each entity has a NIP. And here, you could say, tax-free is 17 million. So no kiosk will pay this tax because no kiosk will earn a revenue of PLN 17 million in a month, so that it doesn't concern the kiosk people at all, that's what I'm going to say. [[There's going to be inflation.]] Well, for now, we have deflation, Mr. Senator, so I'd like us to have 17 million... What inflation? Another issue that has been raised is the surface issue, 40 m2. We're not talking about the surface here at all, we're talking about turnover. And that's why we introduced this amount of PLN 17 million so that a bunch of these small businesses wouldn't have to pay that tax. Who's gonna pay that tax? Big nets, because they're the only ones that, to say the least, exceed their turnover at 17 million. No Polish store, not even a large supermarket, if it is not networked, will reach a monthly income of 17 million. In addition, it would still have to be capitalised, because if it is networked in a franchise, it also does not apply. I would ask you very much to withdraw these amendments, because they are all pointless and testify that the senator has not read this bill or something has not played here. These amendments, Mr. Senator, cannot be made at all. The same goes for Mr. Dowhan, who talked about the gasoline trade, I thought we said the fuel was exempt from this tax. Mr Bierecki quoted a specific provision for you here. I would very much ask my colleagues on the Platform to read this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u269	Thank you. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, please speak. Please, Mr. Senator. [[Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I speak...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, if you would like to discuss this, please do so outside the room, because such conversations are very disturbing and very disturbing to the senator who is taking the floor and to those who listen to his speech. Quiet, please. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My statement in the discussion is, as a matter of fact, an extension of what I asked the Minister during the questions asked by the senators by the Minister. It is about the essence of the matter, such a law is absolutely necessary, necessary and deliberate, except that this law is imprecise, to put it mildly. It's about art. 3 point 4 of the project, where the retail seller is referred to as a natural, legal person, a civil company and an organizational unit which does not have a legal personality selling retail. This definition does not take into account the risk of taxation by dividing legal persons into smaller entities so that their income does not exceed the amount of taxable income, i.e. at the level of PLN 17 million. Eventually, it may be that it doesn't cross... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, gentlemen senators, do you want me to call a break so you can talk? Because if you don't, I'm asking you to leave the room and discuss outside of her. Thank you very much.]] ...probes resulting in a higher tax rate. It also does not include economic operators who act as capital groups composed of many companies. That's what the leaking of this bill is. The question arises as to whether, in the event of such measures, the anti-tax avoidance clause contained in the Article will prove to be sufficient to combat them. The tax ruling was adopted on 15 July 2016 by the Court of Justice of the European Union on the basis of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). According to the wording of the article. 119c of the tax administration, the mode of action shall be considered to be artificial if, on the basis of the existing circumstances, it should be assumed that it would not have been applied by a reasonable and legitimate entity other than to achieve a tax advantage contrary to the entity and the purpose of the tax law. But you can easily imagine actions... And these actions are already under way. I have given you an example of one of the current capital groups. Well, it was one of the companies before. This company has been divided. Actions to avoid or reduce taxation are carried out under the pretence of other objectives, i.e. they fall within the scope of Article. 119c. Right? The operators who conduct such activities justify them by increasing sales efficiency, improving management, transferring part of the shares to employees and improving the motivation of employees. These activities are often spread over time and are legally complex. The Minister has confirmed that there will be litigation on a judicial basis. It seems to me that... my suggestion for the future, in the event of some future amendment of this bill, is that this system, so to speak, seal. I brought up one of the famous brands in the household appliances and RTV industry. In June and July 287 companies were established, which are very similar and have one owner. This is, you can say, a form of a group that will effectively circumvent the provisions of this law. And now we need to consider whether a possible future amendment should not treat groups of capital within the meaning of the Accounting Act as well as retailers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u271	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, there's a lot of words here. I could say that I am signing the appeal of my colleague on the committee, Senator Mroz, that it is worth reading the bill before the debate. This really helps and contributes to the clarity of the debate. Indeed, we would have avoided many unnecessary speeches here if this appeal had been followed. So I join him and hope that the next discussions, at least those about taxes, will be preceded by the reading of the laws. I'd like to remind you of the origins of this bill. Why is this tax being introduced? What did that come from? It came from a huge public discussion about the position of foreign trading networks in Poland. That's where it came from. Well, it's mostly about the food business. It can be said that the result of this discussion, all these discussions and publications is this law. After all, it must apply to all traders, regardless of the country of origin of the capital. The requests for this tax were due to the observations made by the competitors of these foreign networks, that at the huge turnover which they have here, they pay very low taxes, that they trade in Poland, use our roads, from the care of the Polish state, our police watch over them, the fire department extinguishes their fires, but they do not pay for the services that the state provides to them. They don't pay as much as they should pay in proportion to their turnover. In various ways they avoided taxation, either erosion of the tax base, or shifting part of their income to other jurisdictions where there is less money to pay. Not long ago, I attended a meeting of the presidents of the Committee on Budget and Finance organised in the European Parliament when there was a discussion about the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, the ATAD Directive. I said there that in Poland there was a big debate in the last election campaign, because it was observed that one of the networks, which is very expanding in the food market, pays taxes That's what I said. It's in Portugal. That's what the Portuguese said to me: no, no, sir, they pay in the Netherlands. And the Dutchman who sat at the same table at lunch said, well, no, they pay in Luxembourg. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And that was the order. So because of the sense that these big multinational corporations are actually playing the noses of all countries, avoiding taxation... it's like tax avoidance is attributed to these big corporations, so I'd say, and in the end, that money always lands under some kind of palm tree, where the lowest tax is paid. Hence, the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, in line with OECD recommendations, in line with the previous G20 recommendations, which aims to ensure that CIT and PIT taxes are paid where revenues are generated. That is the point of this directive. So you could say that the problem that this bill was supposed to solve could also be solved with other tools. I'm not saying these tools will replace this bill. But what I'm trying to say is that the risk of tax avoidance is getting worse. So I cannot agree with my colleague, the previous speaker, that this bill will be easily disregarded. No, it's not. The Polish State is equipped and will be equipped with effective tools that will counter this avoidance of taxation. But where did the problem really come from? Who introduced these foreign trading networks to the Polish market? Who brought this on? Those who have not read economic history, even though they are historians by education, do not understand what tools are used to benefit from the entire countries, how neocolonialism works. Well, these classic tools are banks and trade. The British Empire used these 2 tools consistently and thus benefited from the nations that had mastered them. Now you don't have to send soldiers, this expansion takes place under the slogans of globalisation, these markets are being conquered. But someone is supporting this expansion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you You've probably read about it, but human memory is short. That for success e.g. Lidla and Kaufland in Poland and Central Europe stand the money of the World Bank, stand the money of the EBRD. They have received over $1 billion of cheap loans for expansion in Central and Eastern Europe to take over this market. Well, in the case of the World Bank, this is a very strange action. It was the International Finance Corporation that granted these loans. One dollar from the World Bank or from the EBRD attracts $4.5 from other private institutions, because it gives great credibility to such a project. In the case of the EBRD, it is absolutely unbelievable. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the EBRD, it is so that such a loan is granted to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Yes? It's up to you, the governments decide... In order for such a loan to be granted from the EBRD, the Polish representative in this bank had to agree to this. Let me remind you who were Polish representatives in this bank. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, Jan Krzysztof Bielecki and Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz I think that's the order they were sitting there. So they had to agree to it. I will tell you more, the Polish Minister of Finance had to agree to this because the opposition of the country in which these funds are to be used is blocking this loan. If there was an objection, there would be no credit. So it can be said that the previous authorities of the Republic of Poland agreed, supported, facilitated the financing of the expansion of foreign trade networks in Poland, contributing to the rapid reduction of the number of Polish shops and the increase of unemployment among people who were involved in this activity. Ladies and gentlemen, what we're doing now is fixing the Republic. I am convinced that the Minister of Finance of this government would never agree to such a development project, such as aid for Poland as its predecessors agreed to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Mr Czesław Ryszka and Mr Robert Mamytkow made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Robert Dowhan. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address a few points very briefly. Senator Grabowski's question was why this definition was not extended to capital groups. Well, as I said in my first speech, it would be really very difficult to use in practice to divide the amount of free money. This would mean that many businesses would have to pay this tax without any exemption. It was an argument for this definition, which was difficult to formulate, to be omitted and to remain at this level, which was written in our law. There was also a question which I would like to answer now about what volume of retail sales in Poland will be subject to this tax. In total, it amounts to about PLN 600 billion and the tax under this law will be covered by 25% of this volume. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to questions concerning the functioning of the exemption, the distinction between the person who buys for the purposes of his business or the consumer, we have a record: - excluded from the catalogue of entities considered to be consumers, under the proposed law, will be persons (entrepreneurs) for whom the sale will be documented with a VAT invoice containing the tax identification number (NIP). According to Art. 106e paragraph. 1 point 5 of the Act on VAT on goods and services one of the elements of a correctly issued VAT invoice is, in principle, the number by which the purchaser of goods or services is identified for the purposes of tax or value added tax under which he received the goods or services. This means that, depending on the status of the purchaser and his tax residence, it will be either the NIP (the tax number under which the buyer is identified for tax purposes) or the tax number of another Member State. It follows from the above that the purchaser's NIP contains only a VAT invoice issued to the identified VAT taxable person. The trader has a tax portal and can verify whether the purchaser of the product is present as a person who is a VAT payer as a person who can use the tax identification number in an authorised manner to collect an invoice documenting the sale as a person conducting an economic activity. Thank you very much again and I ask the High House to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u275	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 238 and the report of the Commission In print No 238 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report of two joint committees, namely the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 7 July 2016. The aim of the regulation is to introduce solutions for simplifying and speeding up the work of preparing and implementing rail infrastructure investments. The Act provides that in the event of the disposal of ownership or right of use of perpetual immovable property covered by the application for a decision to determine the location of the railway line, the purchaser and the seller shall notify the competent voivode of the data of the new owner or perpetual user within 7 days of the date of disposal. The absence of this notification and the conduct of proceedings without the participation of the new owner or perpetual user shall not constitute grounds for reopening proceedings pursuant to Article. 145 §1 (4) of the Code of Administrative Procedure. In addition, pending the final conclusion of the procedure for the decision to determine the location of the railway line, no decisions will be issued on the construction permit for other investments and the proceedings in these cases will be suspended until the final conclusion of the procedure for determining the location of the railway line. According to the amendment, the entities managing the arms networks agree to remove the collision of the network with the investment concerning the railway line within 14 days from the date of receipt of the request of the PKP of the Polish Railway Lines of the Company, hereinafter referred to as PLK SA, or the relevant unit of local government. The lack of agreement within that time limit implies the agreement to remove the collision in the manner and under the conditions proposed by PLK SA or the relevant local government units. The Act allows the State Treasury or local government units to waive the right to compensation for property owned by them if there is a social or economic interest to do so. A declaration of invalidity in writing may be made only until a final decision has been taken to determine the compensation. The Act extends the deadline for preparing a report on the implementation of the multiannual programme from the end of March at the end of May each year and introduces an obligation for it to be published in the Public Information Bulletin of the Authority providing services to the Minister responsible for Transport. The adoption by the Council of Ministers of this report will at the same time constitute its authorisation. The Act also introduces amendments to the limitation of the ban on treeling and bushing up to 15 m from the extreme axis of the railway track. The old age after agreement with the competent railway infrastructure manager will be able to limit this prohibition provided that this does not endanger the safety of rail traffic... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, everyone.]] ...and does not interfere with the operation of traffic devices. At the meeting of the 2 Joint Committees on 19 July 2016, there were representatives of the government in the persons of the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Tomasz Żuchowski and the Director of the Department in the Ministry of Development of Tomasz Pisula, and they were both with colleagues. The President of the Technical Supervision Office Andrzej Ziółkowski was also present with co-workers and representative of the Management Board of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA Arnold Bresch with co-workers. Mrs Marshal, High Senate, the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendment. Nine senators voted in favour of the bill without amendments, five senators were against, and no one abstained. As I said, on behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u277	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Tomasz Żuchowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, is in the room. Are you the Minister of... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Tomasz Żuchowski: Mr. Senator has already said everything.]] The senator has already said everything. Good. [[Bravo, Minister.]] [[Applause]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of you... [[There isn't.]] Please don't help me with the proceedings. [[It wasn't me this time.]] Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Has anyone signed up? No. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 235 and the committee's report in print No 235 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u278	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport concerning the parliamentary draft law amending the Sports Act Print No 235. This law, adopted unanimously, by 443 votes of Members at the twenty-second session of the Sejm on 6 July this year, aims to increase the prizes for outstanding sporting achievements awarded by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. The Act amending the Sports Act concerns Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Sports Act of 25 June 2010, on the basis of which the Minister for Physical Culture may grant from the State budget, part 25 of the physical culture, of which he is the principal, the cash prizes and distinctions for individuals for outstanding sporting achievements. The amount of the monetary prize is based on the amount of PLN 2 000 300, the amount of which cannot now exceed 14 times the amount, or PLN 32 000 200. This amount is too low to properly honour the outstanding sporting achievements of undoubtedly winning a medal in the Olympic Games, the Special Olympic Games or the deaf Games. It is therefore proposed to set a maximum prize amount of 35 times the unchanged base amount, or PLN 2 000 300, which gives a maximum amount of PLN 80 000 500. The amount of prizes awarded to athletes for winning medals at the most important sporting events will allow for a much better honoring of players. The proposed amendment is a compromise between the conditions justifying change and budgetary realities. The existing implementing rules, contained in the regulation of the Minister of Sport and Tourism, specifying the type of prizes and the amount of prizes depending on the achievement of the sport and the detailed procedure for awarding prizes and prizes, taking into account the manner and date of their payment, including the international or national dimension of the achievement of the sport, as amended, shall remain valid until the date of entry into force of the new rules, but not for more than 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, asks the Senate to adopt this law without amendment. The outcome of the vote was clear: 8 votes in favour, i.e. unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u279	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u280	Thank you, Senator. Of course, we will vote in favour because this is an important, prestigious bill. I have a question. Are these awards only for those who practice Olympic disciplines, or can this way be distinguished by a person or team who represent a discipline that does not belong to the catalogue of Olympic disciplines?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u281	If I understand correctly, according to the regulation... Sorry, not with a rush. According to the Sports Act 2010, other players, not only those practicing Olympic disciplines, can be distinguished in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u282	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? We have Minister Jarosław Stawiarski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna cut it short. The draft law was introduced by a group of Members and the Ministry of Sport very much welcomes this amendment. For now, we can afford it. We plan to spend less than PLN 2 million on this under our budget. Hopefully, we'll have a hail of medals and, in case we don't have enough money, we'll run out of budget reserves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u284	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u285	Of course, I'd like to make sure there's no money, because we're happy with medals. Let's hope there's as many as possible. I would like to clarify the question a bit, because the senator, in answer, hesitated a bit. If, for example, In the world team cup, the dross team will win a gold medal and the minister will want to, because it is the minister's will to give a prize, and this is not an Olympic sport, this award can be awarded? I'm saying maybe because he doesn't have to. I'd like to ask you to answer that question I've been trying to ask. Does this apply only to the catalogue of Olympic and Paralympic disciplines?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u286	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This applies to Olympic disciplines, but the minister can always give a reward, in theory it's possible. And this novel is about Olympic disciplines.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u288	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there anyone else? Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u289	Yeah, that changes things, that's what I asked. [[It's okay.]] Yes, Senator Rooster, this is important. [[I know you're the chairman of the slag club.]] [[Is the senator asking a question? You're welcome.]] Yeah, I want to ask you a question, but when the other senators come into the word... Don't you think it is appropriate for the Minister to take advantage of the opportunity that we are in the process of dealing with this law, to make an amendment so that there is no doubt about the content of the article later? I'm asking because it's just from the bill, from this article. 34 doesn't show. You say the minister can always, and this rule is based on an Olympic discipline catalogue. Do you not consider it appropriate for the Minister, on the occasion that we are in the process of dealing with this law, to make such an amendment, I have it prepared Do you want to add some other disciplines? For example, because of their popularity... So it's not that in the event of some exotic discipline, they're gonna be pouring applications for a reward, and the minister's gonna either admit it or not admit it. Don't you think it's appropriate for us, on the occasion, to make an amendment quickly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u290	Thank you, Senator. [[...and add other disciplines as well?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u291	I will answer very quickly right now: I do not consider it appropriate. For one reason, Mrs. Marshal, the High Senate: we want to make it to the 4th of August so that this regulation, which increases the prize rates for medals, is in force at this point in time in the Olympic Games. We just wouldn't make it in time. And in the near future, you can think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u292	Thank you, Minister. Professor Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u293	Minister, I have a question. Senator Dowhan wants to make an amendment, but we don't know what to do, because from the wording of the bill, from the article. 34 - I have here comparative material, 4 paragraphs in full. It does not appear that this is limited to Olympic sports. What is the reason for this restriction to Olympic sports, which the Minister spoke about? Doesn't it come from the Regulation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u294	High Senate! Mrs. Marshal! It's all regulated right now. Just like the senator said. The relevant regulation of the Minister for Sport and Tourism.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u295	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister, on behalf of the sports community, thank you very much for this amendment of the law. I'm not going to make an amendment because it's going to be rejected, I think. Even if it had been accepted, the Sejm would have gathered after the date on which it would have had to enter into force. I think I'll hold you to that. It will be possible to clarify this. This is also important in the case of sport, which is close to me, sport, which recently gathered 50,000 people at the National Stadium, and in the media such competitions are now being watched by several hundred thousand audiences. The Poles are about to take part in the World Team Cup. President Lech Kaczyński has visited the palace of dross riders many times, but he has also rewarded them many times, for example by awarding them a decoration. I had the opportunity to talk during one of my visits to Zielona Góra from the sacred memory of the President, and I must tell you that I was very impressed with his knowledge of this sport. I didn't know that Mr. President was a fan of this sport, and he really knew a lot about it. I only regret that we failed to meet at the slag stadium because I invited the president to visit us, using, of course, the time possibilities which the head of state always has very little. I would like, Minister, if I may, to return to this subject after the holiday break. I wish, as I said, that you would miss this money because we support Poles and we want Mazurek to always sound at every opportunity, including sports. Because of the lack of time, I did not ask why such indicators were adopted by the State. I believe that players who achieve good results should also be well rewarded. You can't translate this, a medal, into finance, because the player who's training doesn't really have the ability to do anything else. To have good results in sports today, you have to devote yourself to it, you have to think about it from morning to evening, watch out for healthy lifestyles, trainings, the whole body of sport. It's really worth rewarding people who give us a lot of satisfaction, because when Poles play with an eagle on their chest or win prizes in individual disciplines And now, before the games, we're all rooting for them... So thank you so much for being honored. I'm sure it'll be some motivation, although I think motivation is always a good sports result. I was an active athlete, and I know how much effort and sacrifice it all costs. And practicing sports sometimes leads to various complications and even disability. It doesn't always end in success. Later, as we know, athletes are in a very difficult financial situation. Maybe by the way, I see that the Minister is involved in all this. It would be worth thinking about those who have suffered injuries and accidents, looking at their situation, maybe setting up a special fund or fund some special scholarships. I know it's working, but not to the extent we thought it would. Thank you very much. Of course, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u297	Thank you. You're welcome. Professor Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Very briefly, because it's late. All sports are important, not just slag. I must say that at the committee meeting we discussed the thread of easy and difficult disciplines. I mean, there are disciplines where it's easier to get gold medals, and disciplines where it's harder to get gold medals. There was a voice that it changed, because if most of the stakeholders are going towards easy disciplines, then in difficult disciplines it is easier to win medals because there is less competition. These are very interesting, broad issues. I have to say this: competitive sport is very important. As chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, as well as as as a youth educator... I've always been close to a sport that improves my health and affects my upbringing. We talked a lot about nicotine prevention yesterday, and sport is one of the important elements here. There is a direct translation of competitive sport into general sport, because after great success Okay, we'll keep that in mind. Szurkowski or Małysz, young people throw themselves in sports. I am very glad that there is such a law, because it is an important element of influence, motivation or honoring, it is also important, the fact that we appreciate all of this. It is also a promotion of Poland, increasing the prestige of Poland in the world. There are many important aspects here, which is why we are very happy with this law and thank you for it. As chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I strongly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u299	Thank you very much, Professor. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 241 and the report of the Commission In print No 241 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Andrzej Wojtyla, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! The amendment of the Sports Act aims to introduce national arrangements for the establishment and implementation of disciplinary rules on doping in sport in a manner consistent with the principles of the World Anti-Doping Code, to which we are bound by the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 the International Convention against Doping in Sport. What does the project involve? Well, the project involves extending the concept of doping, according to the code, for cooperation with people who had previously had contact... who were suspended for doping. The discussion concerned the vagueness of the statements contained in the amendment. For example, the effectiveness of enforcement has been questioned... the record of the attempt by a player to use a prohibited substance or a prohibited method has been criticised. The explanations of the Minister and the representatives of the Polish Olympic Committee went in the direction that such statements appear in the World Code and in the Polish Criminal Code. This explanation satisfied the members of the committee. The next amendment is to exclude the formation and implementation of disciplinary rules concerning doping from the exclusive powers of the Polish Sports Association and to transfer these tasks to the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport. To date, Polish sports unions have been responsible for this and had to take over these entries into their legal order, and only 50% of the unions have done so because they have to accept it at general meetings, whereas general meetings are rarely held, and therefore according to the World Anti-Doping Code it is transmitted to the Commission for Combating Doping in Sport. The discussion also concerned the statements contained in the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 that the relationship recognizes and respects the rules imposed from the outside, that is, by the World Anti-Doping Code, namely that it was said to be a kind of limitation of sovereignty. The discussion and responses were in this direction that sports unions are non-governmental organisations, and Poland was one of the signatories of the anti-doping code, which was adopted at the anti-doping convention in Paris, and therefore, in order to participate in the competition, it must comply with this code. And the signing of this code by Poland is voluntary. These explanations were sufficient for committee members and the committee recommends that the amendment be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u301	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome the young people from Ukraine who are listening to our deliberations. We welcome you very warmly. [[Voice from the hall: From Ukraine?]] From Ukraine, yes. Let's give the young people a round of applause. [[Applause]] This is another group who visits the plenary room and listens to our deliberations. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Visitors from Ukraine There's another lady who's been... Senator Wojtyla has basically said everything. I'd just like to make a quick comment. What is happening in the world sport now shows that these solutions are appropriate solutions, that each country should limit its sovereignty, as it were, when it comes to punishing players, for organisations that will experience independence. 'Cause I'll remind you, Mr. Senator didn't say anything about this organization that's based in Montreal. That's WADA, the World Anti-Doping Agency. This is a country in a country once established by the ICU, and at the moment it is a private foundation in which the ICU and other entities have their shares. She's like the main regulator. Mr McLaren's report to the World Anti-Doping Agency, which found that in Sochi almost 90% of Russian athletes were subjected to unfair practices 'Cause that's what McLaren's report said, 'and what's happening now in the arbitrage court in Lausanne, 'cause that's a sign that unfortunately, we have to step up...' And the novel of our Sports Act causes that the Anti-Doping Commission will soon really be replaced with the Polish Anti-Doping Agency. Double arbitration in this committee, and then possible recourse to international arbitration in Lausanne will be the only objective institution that will be able to punish athletes involved in unfair practices. Until now, the sports unions that have punished, Dear Senators, have often been very lenient. And now relationships will have nothing to punish or to make disciplinary rules. And I ask the High House to accept this novel, even though, as the Senator rapporteur said, it is as if it limits our sovereignty a little bit. But this is not about sovereignty as regards the right to punish Polish athletes. Sportsmen are one great international family and specialized institutions, which is undoubtedly WADA, fighting for purity in sports, fair play, and Coubertinian ideas. Thank you, and please accept this novel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u303	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and those oppressed for political reasons. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print 59 and the committee's report In print No 59 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I see the presence of opposition representatives, prominent warriors for freedom and democracy in our country. We are in the Senate, in a place of reflection, and we will discuss a great subject, we will talk about a great issue, about the struggle for independence and about the great people who contributed and contributed effectively. It is impossible to reflect that instead of this law, instead of this report, we should move back 30 years to adopt a resolution, not to adopt a law, to adopt a resolution on how this fight... how these people achieved success in the form of the Third Polish Republic or free and independent Poland. That's not what happened. Many regret that. It hurts, among other things. human .. also absent here. Who walked heavily on the ground, which probably most of us visited the communist case, Karol Modzelewski. In his last memory, in a will called the book "The Bible. " Let's get to the story. The confessions of the beaten rider are also regrettable: Our democracy is still mined by social tearing. Its inhabitants answer: it is your good that is our injury. He continues to say that this freedom is not for this, but nevertheless... But he says it's a false thesis. And he continues to say that without freedom and without brotherhood it is an uncertain gift. Yes. If you consider the regrets and expectations of different people And those who have benefited from the fruits of liberty, and those who have not lived, and those who are passive participants, and those who do not expect direct recognition. It can be said that democracy can actually mean that brotherhood has been guarded... Because my bill... our bill should end with a resolution, and after that it should only be followed by foundations, human patience... There should be a human recognition that would better satisfy the harvest of this struggle. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. That's why I'm acting on behalf of three committees now. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy As a notary of regrets and requests for help, help for those for whom we have not found an effective formula of recognition and satisfaction and even aid for 60 years. These three committees leaned on the draft law amending the law which entered into the Senate's deliberations in the previous term. And despite the pressure that has been exerted, including financial and even, I would say, malice, resentment, the Senate has passed a law on anti-communist opposition activists and politically repressed persons. Today, after almost a year of operation of this law, 3 committees decided that it needed to be corrected. It requires an adjustment due to the modesty of the State budget allocated to these objectives. It also requires a correction of what the opposition environments were about, i.e. that it should not be merely material in nature, but that it should have accentuated dignity. Of course, committees as legal institutions had to act on a number of conditions. We are still in the state's position of achievements. Still not only those whose representatives are here, but also combatants of the period of World War II and later, because the law on these people speaks, have not received proper recognition and satisfaction. Although various attempts were made, these tests, let's admit, were occasional and therefore did not create a system, and the veteran law itself, as you know, is from the peerel sign and has to be corrected many times. But in the end, almost according to the committees, the reports have been worked out, which I have the honour of presenting. The committees considered that the law which was passed in the previous term of the Sejm was a good material for change. As I say, the changes concern both material support and matters related to the recognition of the dignity of these people and, which may be less important, bring this specialty closer to the law on combatants. I would add that with regard to procedures, the work of the committee was carried out in a situation where the conditions were fully met, i.e. with the frequent and noticeable presence of opposition groups, with the high activity of the Veterans' Office, the Ministry of Labour, they were accompanied by media interest. In addition, a working group was set up to ensure that these different lessons from different fields, different perceptions of reality That all of this should be included in this Act. The committees propose some amendments. I'm not going to introduce everyone because some of them are procedural or stylistic. As regards material benefits, the committees request that the current benefit, amounting to PLN 400, be raised to half of the lowest pension, with the intention of treating it, in particular valorisation, on the basis of the lowest pension, i.e. in the normal course and in which the allowances are present. Definitely the committees raised the eligibility threshold for this aid: from 120% the lowest pension up to 170% the lowest pension for people living alone, and there is a lot of it, i.e. the amount of about 1 thousand 600 PLN, 1 thousand 700 PLN, note, gross, i.e. the actual amount, and not the amount that occurs in the calculation. As for those still living, praise God, in the family, this threshold will be at 150% the lowest pension, that is approx. PLN 1 thousand 200 in the pocket. In addition, the committees considered that the benefit would be granted to persons who had reached retirement age for an unlimited period of time. Third shift. The committees agreed to coincide with the Veterans Act and the eligible persons will receive additional two forms of assistance. The one that was already in the bill, ad hoc, one-off... that is to say, paid once a year to 150%. the lowest pension, and it will not depend on income. And this new form. This is temporary aid signed... sorry, paid for a maximum period of 6 months to... sorry, in an ad hoc form once every 12 months, and as far as the periodic form is concerned, up to 6 months, in the amount of one lowest pension. The committees, at the request of the Kombatant organisation, considered that a stay in prisons or retreat centres should be classified as a double pension. Another shift, five o'clock. The committees considered that they could happen, and certainly there are situations which, yes, in this assistance, can raise the material situation of these communities, but even half of the minimum pension strengthened by one-off and ad hoc benefits does not bring the income of some of these people who have worked intensively in hiding, and perhaps have not even been persecuted, to the level of at least the lowest pension, because such people would receive a total of just PLN 440. Therefore, the committees considered that they had... committed the Head of the Office to Combatants and Repressed Persons. Although this obligation was not fully formulated, it was for him to apply to the President of the Council of Ministers for the granting of benefits to entitled persons. And this is such a positive solution that the Prime Minister has more opportunities in terms of granting such a benefit, its amount and title. The formula in the previous law is then changed, that the local government can provide further assistance in social, cultural, housing, communication matters, which is about to be added to the formula: "The local government grants." This gives the possibility, first and foremost, to organisations, but also individuals, to ask for such assistance directly from local authorities. Next, on a proposal, I understand the Veterans' Office... in order to bring these people closer to the situation of the veterans, the office proposed, and the committees agreed to accept the amendment, so that communication reliefs would take place in the national means of communication. As I said earlier, when it comes to local communication, it depends on cooperation or cooperation or the will of local government. The committees also request that the position of consultative teams be in the voivodeship, not, as it was in the previous wording, at the marshal, actually at the marshal of the voivodship. The new institution of this law shall be appointed at the head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons of the Council for Anti-Communist Actioners, as a consultative body and as a dialogue body, as an authority which will also be tasked with analysing the material situation of the said communities. However, from the reporting obligation I must mention the amounts, the amounts. The changes in question, according to the assessments, will increase the number of applicants for the status of the person being repressed and, as a result, those applying for financial assistance from the currently planned approximately 9 and 10 000 to 19 000 persons. These are, of course, estimates that cannot be verified. But for budget purposes, they are necessary to secure resources in the event of such a situation. This means an increase in budget expenditure from the budget of PLN 50 million to PLN 100 million today. I would also like to mention that there have been a lot of environments involved in the work on this law. 11 or 12 environments, I think. Various demands were made, and those concerning increasing the scope of aid and these elements, so to speak, dignity, and those whose authors were looking for measures, inter alia, in the deubecisation laws. Well, it's all been taken into account. In view of these votes, there were different opinions. For today, High Senate, I request that this bill be passed for two reasons. Time's up. And for the environments that are covered by this law, going back 60 years, time passes twice or triple. I therefore ask you to think deeply of your senators and to accept what the committees have worked out in agreement with the government. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u305	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Rulewski to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator, no questions asked. [[I'm sorry.]] No, no, Mr. Senator. That's because there's no doubt about this bill. [[I thought at least Senator Rooster... I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] [[But, Jack, what is it? There's no doubt about it.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for the very detailed... Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? Welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u306	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Senator Jan Rulewski has put forward the most important points, which, as you can see, raise no doubt, raise no questions. I am pleased that the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, which I have led, was able to make proposals for amendments to this law from the property framework mentioned by the senator to the dignity framework at committee meetings. And I felt authorized to do so as head of office because it was reported by representatives of opposition groups, those who most need support and assistance. Finally, I would just like to inform you that you are aware of how many people are currently using this law. These are data from today, and I think they are important in the further procedure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, as of 22 July, the number of people who have received the status of anti-communist opposition activist And let's remind you that the bill is almost a year old. That's only $1,000 386. The number of people who received monetary aid, i.e. eligible under the current income rules, one-off aid, because this amendment implies providing interim aid, which is very important... The cash aid received 369 people. A cash benefit This is currently a 400-gold witness for a period of 1 year only 317 people have received it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think these numbers speak for themselves. And I think so, too. That's all at the end. On July 22, it may also be a symbolic date, the right day, that after years, when it was the feast of the Polish Communist Uprising, it would be possible to announce the amendment of this law, which broke Poland from the communist yoke. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u307	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin. [[Oh, he's not getting up...]] The speaker is upside down. [[Already maxed out? Oh, I mean, maximum.]] 10 minutes, take-off time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u308	Good. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! It so happens that before I became a senator of the Republic of Poland, as an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance last term I participated in works which were then undertaken at committee level. I would like to start with that, from that memory of that time, because without a doubt the bill that we are debating today connects us. This was evident in the previous term of office and is evident in this term of office. It may be worth recalling that in the Senate last term, the initiator of these good changes was Senator Wyrowiński. I give this name because it is known that it was not from the Law and Justice, but I remind it precisely because it must also be thanked for what we are doing today. Undoubtedly, in the last term of office, the Senate was, at least from my perspective, when I came here as an employee of the IPN, this House, which definitely wanted to express itself in favour of the fact that anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed in 1956 and 1989 should be honoured. However, it is also necessary to add a little bit of time to this honey barrel, because until the Government of Law and Justice came into existence, the last term failed to achieve both the version which is now being proposed and the version with these amendments, which I am about to tell you about, to introduce into the bloodstream legislation, it was not possible to introduce this law in a form in which it will be accepted unambiguously, in my opinion, by the most important environments, namely the environment of opposition and the people being repressed. I mention this because it is clearly necessary to honor the Senators of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice of the previous term of office, as well as to honor the present Senate and the executive authority, which is the ruling party of Law and Justice. I would like to propose to the High House amendments to the bill we are discussing today, amendments that go even further than what has been developed by these committees. The basic amendment that I would like to make on behalf of Mr Robert Mammothov and mine is our joint amendment. It's about mouths. 1 in point 3 is replaced by the following: a cash benefit is granted at PLN 400 per month. This is one sentence and the other amendments that would have been made mean that the income threshold would be eliminated. The elimination of the income threshold is what you have been fighting for for at least a few years. I am very pleased to be able to make this amendment with Mr Robert Mathematical. I think that's what's supposed to make us today. The good change is that we respect all those who deserve it in dignity. I hope so. I think I can tell you in public. Based on the round talks with the Senators of the Civic Platform, this amendment will be considered right and accepted by them. As I said at the beginning, the Senate was not the party that did not want this amendment. This is the most important amendment. The continuation of which, Mr. Marshal, I will not speak, is a change which is the consequence of the first one. Before I come up with any other substantive amendments, I would like to tell you that the simulations mentioned here were... The Minister, the head of the Veterans' Office, has given us numbers that are now known. I asked for a simulation resulting from the data we had before, i.e. on 10 June this year. Given the rate of granting the status of victims, the rate of granting the right to adopt this revised version, if the law is adopted... According to the simulation, which seems to me the most sensible, I asked for a few simulations, but I will not torment you by talking about them all. It is likely that in 2017 they will receive this status of people who, after adopting these amendments and the entire bill, will apply for it a bit more... There would be up to about 10,000 of these people, which would mean that in 2017 we would fit in a total of PLN 50 million. But undoubtedly in the next year, 2018, if we reached this threshold, about which the Veterans' Office... We conclude, with no hard evidence that it would be 15 000 people, that it would certainly have to be looked at in the budget of the state for millions more, probably seventy with a small hook. I'm talking about that, I'm asking you to let us know what decision we're making. There is, of course, a very short interpretation for anti-communist opposition activists and those who are being repressed. The Polish state's budget really can afford it. This isn't the sum that would knock down the budget of a 30-million-dollar nation. I say this in a clear way so that we do not use this argument anymore, but move on, because this amendment will undoubtedly not destroy the Polish state. I'd like to say now. I'm sorry. That I have other amendments. They are very important from such, I would say, a dignified point of view, as we are increasingly talking about. I'd like to see some amendments made... They are correlated with the wishes of the Office for Combatants, and it will not surprise the office. It's about the amendments that I'm going to say about them in general, because I'm really trying to shorten my speech. That the office will be required to issue appropriate IDs, honorary badges, so that the person with status... As a senator, I can have a badge like that. The point is for the Veterans' Office to be able to wear such a badge of honor. Another amendment is very important, but please consider it to be an amendment of an order nature. Senator Rulewski mentioned here the correlation between the laws on veterans and the ones we're talking about right now. I propose that we introduce a provision on the final date of the law on veterans' affairs, about October 1963, about the death of the Lalusia. This is, of course, a symbolic date and we are aware of it. If anyone wants to ask about the cost, then... According to my knowledge, there are now dozens of people living who could enter this orbit of the National Day of Remembrance of Soldiers. [[Time's up.]] I understand I'm gonna have five more minutes. [[Yes.]] Good. [[Mr. Senator, we have...]] I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator. You're in a hurry, but... [[I'm in a hurry. The Senate's in a hurry.]] I understand, but we're debating a bill that's really important. I may not talk about the amendments, but then you will feel uncomfortable. In view of the fact that you will not know what these amendments relate to. Unless it doesn't cause discomfort... In such a situation, I will deal with this in a friendly circle and tell my friends about these amendments. You want me to do that? [[No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u309	Mr. Senator, you're out of time. He deserves you five minutes in the next round. It's special. It's awkward for me to draw your attention and talk about overcoming time. I'm gonna need you to finish it synthetically.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u310	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, please change the date in the Veteran Affairs Act for 1966 and in the 1955 procedure. I'm not gonna explain why, although as a historian I'd like to. Amendments next, very important And that's what I'm gonna focus on. These are the amending amendments concerning the proposals already made here by the rapporteur, which refer to the Councils to be established by the voivodships. Picking up advice like that... There must also be a recall mechanism and the proposed amendment concerns such a mechanism. Now the most important, I think, is an amendment, which is an obvious novelty and for which I am undoubtedly opting. It is new and you should get to know it. I would like to make an amendment aimed at eliminating the competition procedure, which has so far been in force as regards the appointment of the Head of the Office for Combatants. It is undoubtedly an executive, public authority for which the government is responsible in all its glory and the Office for Combatants in a special way. Therefore, it seems quite understandable that the head of the Veteran Office will be appointed by the Prime Minister of the Government, who is responsible for the functioning of the most important public offices in Poland with the marks of executive authority. This is the last amendment. The rest are secondary amendments, or even merely cosmetic and editorial, so I hope that you will have no grudge against me if you do not recognize them at this stage. Of course, the Legislative Commission will be able to discuss these amendments at its next meeting. Thank you very much. Once again, I am pleased that Robert Mammoth and I could tell you about these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u311	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski. Senator, one correction: we will vote on this bill at the next Senate meeting... [[Yes.]] ...in connection with this July 22nd... [[I wasn't the one who said July 22nd.]] And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so we're not gonna keep that historical hint. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Like I said, moving this bill It is good that it existed also caused, so to speak, the movement of cells and hearts in my person. I propose further amendments which result from these various meetings. And yes, I suggest that it should be a member of the "Solidarity," not only to think of the opposition that is closest to me or which has been under the law for 60 years, but also to think of those 112 thousand veterans who have not changed the veterans' allowance in years. Although it is valuable, please note that this year's valorization amounted to 1 PLN 20 gr. And the situation of those people who are 80 and 90 years old, under the conditions of reform, unfortunately, is not always improving. And that is why I propose a symmetrical and independent increase in the Combatant's allowance to the amount that will be granted to the opposition environment, or whatever the amount of 36 PLN. I further propose that automatic conversion be made of course. Except that, in view of the budget, I suggest that this amendment should come into force on 1 January 2017. I'm galloping. Of course, valorization. However, it happens that this law does not cover the complexity of many cases. I was talking about them. In fact, it started out that printers never belonged to anything, fought, weren't persecuted, and end-of-life landed without retirement, with abandoned qualifications, and sometimes sick because they worked in the basement. I believe that the President of the Social Security Office should, at the request of such a person, grant her a minimum pension. It may happen that the Minister will not speak to the Prime Minister, and then these people would only live on this supplement. Another dignified witness. It can also happen that a person who is not entitled to a pension dies and that happens to all of us. And there's no one to bury her. Of course, the municipality is bound, but it is hard to imagine that at this point it is not accompanied by family or family. And that's why I'm proposing - Whether she's entitled or not. So that such a person would always have a funeral allowance. I think this is a rare situation. This only applies to those whose lives did not go well. Come on. I also think it's a kind of thing. Sorry. Stand by. [[Voice from the room: Time, Mr. Senator.]] Okay, just two more corrections. Well, we are observers of numerous independence ceremonies, independence events. There they gladly invite the combatants, invite opposition activists. Unfortunately, they participate in torches, funerals... And there will also be these consultative teams... I believe that the Minister for Labour and Social Policy should extend the regulation so that it gives the right to leave to all those persons who, upon request... who will reasonably want or should even attend these celebrations. Further amendment. However, I am defending the location of the consultative council in the local government, because it is the local government that is to strongly support these environments. And, of course, I also call for their dismissal, because it may happen that they will not meet different conditions, for life or for other reasons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u313	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Mammothov.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's gonna be short because my friends are asking me not to talk too long. I never talk long anyway. I just want to point out two or three things that need to be said. Well, today we are discussing the issue of aid to activists who have been and are in a difficult situation. In my previous term of office, I asked you from this tribune to support a project that will provide help to these activists. You didn't support him, you just cut off everything you could cut. This must be remembered, because as I hear Senator Ziientarski today, who is acting as a defender of democracy, I recall how, in his previous term as rapporteur on the decoy bill, he selected a senator from the Platform who was actually opposed to this law. Well, you didn't agree to my request at the time. That's what you have to remember. The platform didn't want that good change. The Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons didn't take care of this case. The country that's here today knows how long we've been walking and asked to sort this out somehow. Well, it's been very difficult. I must say that this subject was addressed only by Mr. Vice-Marshal Wyrowiński, who asked me to work in a team that was supposed to prepare this bill. And I worked in it. Of course, then I got kicked out of this band because I was the only one in the PiS. Then the Platform itself did it. Of course, I never meant to share someone and tell them they're like that and they're like that. No, I just wanted a bill that would help those in financial difficulties. I was the one who was following it, and Mr. Marshal Wyrowiński helped me with it, who worked on this whole bill. It came out okay, but you have to remember. My colleague, Senator Rulewski, is saying very nice things today, but he didn't support these amendments at the time, and he was also in favour of cutting it off. And that's what you have to remember. Well, unfortunately, that's the truth. I am very pleased that Senator Rulewski and you want to amend this bill so that it is worthy. I'm very happy about it, but I can't forget what happened last time I asked you for help, and you didn't support me. I'd like to say again that I'm very grateful... We dealt with this topic thanks to you, Vice-Marshal Jan Wyrowiński. And you have to remember that, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u315	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also want to thank the initiators of this amendment. My colleague, Senator Mammothov, has already mentioned here that... I don't want to repeat this anymore, but I am adding to the words about our difficult situation in which we have proposed all this. I appreciate the fact that the Senators of the Platform are so generous today that they report such a wide range of amendments, but I ask where this courage was before. I think, therefore, that this fan will be limited at the committee meeting a little bit. I would like to draw attention to one point that has been raised here. Not everyone's in the file, but they were activists. I would particularly like to mention many of our activists, the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, who were often so conspired that no service could embrace them. And they worked, they were active activists, and they can't always document it. Hence many activists who... many documents destroyed, burned various services, but also the activists themselves burned the documentation, because some were afraid. Therefore, it would be appropriate to take into account and see the activists of the "Solidarity" Individual Farmers here, which was a really big support in the 1980s. They should not be forgotten. Thank you to those who want to improve this bill. I'm gonna get involved in this to help. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u317	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to declare that this bill, my effort, is dedicated to Janusz Krupski, a friend of Marshal Borusewicz, and to all of us... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u319	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct, if I may.]] [[Stop it.]] [[It's time for a break.]] [[It's about Senator Mammoth's statement.]] [[But don't...]] [[The break's here.]] You can sign up, Senator. [[No, just in correction mode...]] He called a name, yes. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u320	Mr. Senator! You called my name in this context: Zientarski, the defender of democracy. Yes, I am always, I have been and will be a defender of democracy, but I have never acted against those who have contributed to the fight for Poland, for freedom. Never, Mr. Senator. Don't give me the impression of something like that. [[You didn't hear what I said.]] No. You said I appointed somebody who was supposed to torpedo this bill. That's a lie! I've always worked very well with Marshal Wyrowinski. Senator Shark is also a witness. We agreed this together and there was no discussion at the meeting of the Legislative Commission about whether this law should be or should not be. And never... And the point of the proposal, as regards the rapporteur, Senator, is that I always ask if there are any other possible... [[Okay.]] And there wasn't a situation where someone made another proposal. Yeah, well, I'm actually asking... I, too, respectfully approach you, and I see that you are consistently presenting some laws. But don't impersonate me of untruthful things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u321	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Corrigendum to the corrigendum, Mr. Senator? [[Two sentences.]] Your name has been called. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u322	Mr. Marshal, Senator Zientarski didn't listen well to what I said. [[I've been listening.]] I was talking about the decoy bill! [[Oh, totally different.]] You don't listen to what you say. I was talking about the decoy bill. You then appointed Senator Jurcewicz, who was against this bill, to be a rapporteur for the bill. And I told the truth. For the second time, think about it before you jump out emotionally and say something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u323	Thank you, Senator. There's been a corrigendum, so I'll inform you... [[This has nothing to do with democracy, on the contrary.]] I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Żaryn and Mątkow and Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed... [[To make the local governments decide...]] What? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can't close the discussion yet? [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u324	I do not want to discuss, but since the government still has the right to speak, I would be grateful if the government would comment on the amendment tabled by Mr Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u325	I get it. [[At the next meeting.]] [[At the committee meeting. Half the people are gone.]] [[There's gonna be a committee meeting.]] The discussion is closed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The discussion is closed! Would a government representative like to comment on the amendments tabled, or will he do so at a committee meeting? [[The committee meeting will be in two weeks.]] I don't want to. [[The minister says he's gonna do it at the committee meeting.]] Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, gentlemen!]] There are conclusions... As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. [[Voices from the room: And that's it. Messages.]] Messages, please. [[The committee meeting...]] Turn it on. Is he here yet? [[Oh, he doesn't have a card.]] Doesn't he have a card? [[I'm the one who's gonna move. There's my card. I'm sorry.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u326	The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media will be held today immediately after the announcement in room 176. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests for retail tax will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the Senate meeting in room 182. Joint meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of proposals submitted to the draft law amending the Act on Anti-Communist Opposition Act, etc. will take place on 2 August at 2.30 p.m. in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u327	I'm calling a half-hour break until 5:22 p.m. [[Voices from the room: until 6:22 p.m.]] I'm sorry. By 6:22 p.m. [[By 6:20.]] 6:22 p.m. Half an hour off. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 52 to 18 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u328	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the law on perpetual books and mortgage. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back... [[Just a moment, Mr. Marshal.]] Okay, we'll wait for the president. Please report the results. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 74]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the law on perpetual books and mortgage. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which they requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 239 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[Voice from the room: Against!]] [[Voice from the courtroom:]] [[Voice from the room: Against!]] Some are for it and others are against it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 22 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Civil Status Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments Senator's printing No 226 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Civil Status Act. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments; a minority of the committees request amendments to the Senate Print No 232 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees on the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 22 against. [[Voting No 77]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. We are back to discussing item 13 of the agenda: the Retail Tax Act. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 231 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, on 22 July, at 6 p.m., a meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance was held, which leaned on the amendments made during the parliamentary debate and unanimously rejected these amendments. Therefore, the committee's recommendation is to adopt a law without amendments, as I present and for which I refer to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u330	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Jerzy Wcisla and Senator Robert Dowhan submitted their conclusions during the discussion. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance was Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Would any of you like to speak again? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If someone votes against kiosks that are included in the amendment, they will be considered a kioskbuster in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u332	Does anyone else want to speak? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan... [[Mr. Marshal, at the request of the venerable Senator Stas Rooster, I will not justify this again.]] [[It's not like anyone told you to.]] We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if it is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Dowhan's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] Senator Dowhan's motion to reject the bill was rejected. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the proposal of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 56 were in favour, 22 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 79]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Retail Tax Act. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 238 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate print No 235 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act. We return to the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Sports Act. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 241 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Sports Act. We are back to discussing item 17 of the agenda: Report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2015 together with Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2015. I would like to remind you that, after the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion and to prepare an additional report on the subject so that it is possible to proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution at this meeting. It is in print No 139 X. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to present an additional report to the committee. [[Can I just go somewhere, or do I have to...]] The usual thing is, it's done out of the platform. You're welcome, Mr. Senator, to the podium. [[I'm sorry, I didn't mean to bother the old man... to let him...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Senator. He did it with pleasure. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 22 July, the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media began at 18.03 a.m., which adopted by 4 votes to 2 the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u334	Thank you very much. Would the senator like to speak again? You have the option. [[I don't want to.]] [[Keep it up.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the vote on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment to the draft resolution, print No 139 X, and then, if this request is rejected, on the draft resolution proposed by the committee, contained in print No 139 S. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Isn't there a proposal to accept without amendments?]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. We don't have a print about the symbol "S" and we don't know what's in it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: But it was delivered.]] Everyone's been served. I'm not responsible for the printing, but... do you not have the printing? [[Voices from the room: We do.]] We can wait a minute and you'll get the print. [[Voice from the room: We do.]] Prints are printed, anyone can get them, get to them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proceeding... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to vote on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Are there any other questions, any doubts? [[There isn't.]] Mr. Senator... [[I would like to ask if this printing is in favour of...]] [[Senator, there you go, print.]] Well, the print only determines the outcome of the vote on the committee. [[I said it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you need... Senator Wind, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u335	I understand that at the moment, we are voting on the amendment to adopt the report. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u336	Ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet entered the vote. That can be asked by the rapporteur, that is what the questions are for the rapporteur. So that's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, a five-minute break by 6:40 p.m. You're welcome. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 35 to 18 minutes 40]] I'm reopening the session. We are voting on the report of the National Radio and Television Council. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment to the draft resolution, print No 139 X, and then, if this request is rejected, on the draft resolution proposed by the committees in print No 139 S. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the senators to the draft resolution - print No 139 X. The amendment aims to adopt the report of the National Radio and Television Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 83]] The amendment was rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in print No 139 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 19 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the report of the National Radio and Television Council and has rejected this report. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21rd Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will be held on 3 and 4 and 5 August 2016. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to take the floor and make a statement? Senator Janina Sagatowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u337	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There will be beautiful days in Podkarpacie from Monday, or actually from Sunday. For the first time in history, the Congress of American Polonia will sit in Podkarpacie and come to Poland. Our great Poles from across the ocean will come to us. I'd like to make a statement on this occasion. These will be the words addressed to Mr Władysław Ortyl, Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, by the Marshal, thank him for this. And because of me. Let me quote these words to the High House. Mr Władysław Ortyl, Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. First of all, we would like to express our great respect and gratitude for the effort of organizing the Congress of American Polonia, which is held in Poland for the first time this year, in Rzeszów, in the capital city of Podkarpackie Voivodeship. The subcarpathia is particularly related to the Polish environment, because it was from these parts that many Poles emigrated for reasons often connected with a complicated life or political situation. Many of these Poles have stayed in the country and are raising generations of our compatriots in the sense of belonging to our nation. It is therefore a sign of the time that in Rzeszów, on Podkarpackie land, for the first time, there is a meeting of delegates from the Congress of American Polonia outside the United States. This will be an opportunity to address the new challenges facing the Congress, enabling even closer cooperation between Poles in Poland and abroad in the cultural, social and economic fields. The Congress of American Polonia is an organization bringing together Americans of Polish origin, which was established in 1944 in order to unite multimillion Polish people and the largest Polish organizations operating in the United States. Since then, Polonia has been able to speak with one voice in matters concerning her homeland and her country of origin. Stressing the special commitment of the Congress to Polish affairs, it is important to recall the help of Polish military and war refugees to reach the United States after World War II, to support the creation of Radio Free Europe and to bring to the approval of the United States Congress an investigation into the Katyn crime. Thanks to the Congress of American Polonia it was also the launch of financial aid for Poland, leading the United States to recognition of the post-war border with Germany and later with a united German state. The Congress also introduced long-term lobbying among the American elites concerning Poland's admission to the North Atlantic Pact, NATO. As Senator of Podkarpackie Land and Chairman of the Committee on Migration and Communication with Poles abroad, I would like to ensure First of all, including Marshal Stanisław Karczewski, who is so concerned about the well-being and well-being of Polonia and our entire homeland. On its participation in the session of the First Forum of American Polonia in Poland. We will serve as counsel and guidance on Polish affairs. May the motto of our common Polish-Polonyans, with the participation of American Polonia, be the words of Father John Paul II: Polonia is important for Poland, as Poland is important for Polonia. Both need each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-22-senat-23-3.u338	Thank you very much, Senator. Would anybody else like to speak? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 23rd session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 47]]
