ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u1	Resume session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. State Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Grocery Products, printing No 320 and considering it as item 7 of the agenda; the Act amending the Law on Feed, printing No 323 If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I would like to remind you that according to the earlier announcement after the preparation by the competent Senate committees of the agenda reports can be supplemented by... At this moment I already know that only one item: the Act amending the Act on income tax on individuals and the Act on corporate income tax and the Act amending the Act on taxation and some other laws, print No 327. In turn, the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax, print No 330, will be considered at the next meeting. I would like to inform you that after considering the third point on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, we will proceed with the examination of the point: the Ombudsman's information for 2015. Then we will listen to the explanations and responses of the candidates to the Monetary Policy Council member. Immediately after the hearing, a vote will take place on this point and then a vow will be taken by a selected member of the Monetary Policy Council. I would like to remind you that at 12.00 a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition on the life and work of Henryk Sienkiewicz. There are young people present from XXIII High School of General Education named Maria Skłodowska-Curie in Warsaw. I very much welcome the young people. Listen up, young people, maybe someday you'll replace us. [[I'm sure you do, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm sure you'll replace us. We are returning to the third item of the agenda... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, the senator has come forward...]] [[The Senator, the rapporteur, wanted to speak.]] But wait a minute, I know that... Ladies and gentlemen, I can see and hear. Is there any doubt that I can hear and see? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We would like to return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I remind you that before the recess, according to the article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2 (6) of the Senate Rules of Procedure has been formally requested by Senator Piotr Ziientarski to refer him to the Legislative Commission. Would any of you like to speak? You're welcome, Senator. This is the moment when you can speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to object to Senator Zientarski's request to refer the case to the Legislative Commission. This issue was discussed yesterday at the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, but did not arouse the interest of the Senators of the Platform. None of them were present at the committee meeting. [[What do you mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u3	Thank you very much. So, ladies and gentlemen... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...we'll proceed to the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] In what mode? [[In corrigendum mode.]] Wait a minute. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode? Please, it's possible. A brief corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u4	Mr Marshal, I would like to say that, in parallel to the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions yesterday, there was a meeting of the Joint Legislative Committee and the Committee on Infrastructure. [[You should've split it: half here, half here.]] This is the first case. And the second point is that from all the attached opinions it appears that this is a system act, and so far all the laws relating to the Court have been examined by the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u5	Good. [[Mr. Marshal...]] And in what mode, Mr. Senator? [[Ad vocem, I'd like to comment on what you're...]] [[You can't ad vocem.]] But who decides that? It's up to me. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, wait a minute. And why should we take the floor of the senators? Well, ladies and gentlemen... There you go, ad vocem. [[No, bravo, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Joint committees, including among others. The Legislative Board is adjourned... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh... Mr. Senator Fedorovich, please be quiet, because you have a very loud voice and you can hear it even when you speak quietly.]] [[Voice from the room: Actor has voice.]] The joint committees were adjourned before the proceedings of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions began.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u7	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Ad vocem.]] And in what mode, Mr. Senator? [[Ad vocem do ad vocem.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[Ad vocem, ad vocem.]] Well, you know, there wasn't... [[It was, Mr. Marshal. And you said he was giving the floor.]] Okay, here you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u8	Mr Ambrozik pointed out that there were not several PO senators Or none of them at all. And they didn't put it on the case. In fact, I admit I wasn't there. I'm justified, but... [[Who's the excuse?]] ...from the statements of the PiS senators that they did not receive this report and only yesterday, at the time of the procession... [[Stop it!]] ...the report was urgently presented here in the benches. Therefore, I ask, Mr. Marshal, that this request be deemed not to be true because it is not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u9	Mr. Senator, as far as I know. I've got some good information. The report was delivered to the senators before 2 p.m. And it's to be checked. Thank you very much. [[Yes, sir.]] We proceed with the vote on the formal motion of Senator Piotr Ziientarski. Who is in favour of this proposal, which is to refer this law to the Legislative Commission? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] The senator's motion was rejected. [[There's not enough of you.]] Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Libicki. [[Mr. Marshal, I'll ask you a question for the Marshal.]] But right now, Mr. Senator... [[With a formal question.]] No formal questions for the marshal. [[Formal conclusion.]] There's no formal proposal like a marshal's question. [[That's me on a formal issue.]] I've already given the floor to Senator Libicki. Then, after the senator's statement, you can come forward, but please specify the procedure. Okay? Because now we're not having a debate, we're not having a discussion. [[I'd like to...]] Mr. Senator, the questions could have been... [[I'd like to ask you about...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Any doubts could and had to be resolved during the specially convened session of the Senior Convention. [[Yeah, about that, I'd like to...]] There was a meeting of the convention and all the information I provided to you, also just now. [[No.]] [[And so I'd like to ask you something.]] Mr. Senator, you have the floor. [[Extra-ordinary!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad to finally be able to speak in the discussion. [[Exactly.]] It'll be brief. In fact, I wanted to ask this question to the authors of this law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, that is, Members, but yesterday, when there was a round of questions, they were not there, so let me ask you this question in the manner of speaking in the discussion. My speech will be brief. First line. I'd like to say that I've been a senator for five years and I've seen things. In such a rapid manner, without the report or with the report delivered shortly before the vote, we have already dealt with various points. [[It was under the Platform's rule.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, as fast as the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, I have not yet seen it. I'm amazed. And that's point one. And now the second line. Here's my question. We have already debated the first point here, the system of common courts, and we have also discussed disciplinary matters and the extension of penalties to judges. And then we wondered which of these elements were right. And then, when we were talking about property claims, we were wondering which of these solutions are right and which, in our opinion, or in my opinion, because I asked, have the mark of a certain harassment of this professional group. Well, I feel like I'm here. We are now discussing the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal with such harassment. There are two possible solutions here. I no longer remember whether we have been discussing the Constitutional Court for the fifth, sixth or seventh time since the beginning of this term, because these laws and projects were already so much that, frankly, I got lost and I don't know which project it is, the one we are talking about. Or it is that those who report these projects simply have no idea. And there are so many projects because the idea of the Constitutional Tribunal is changing all the time, or yet we are dealing with a situation of certain harassment. I'd rather agree that it's the other option. I leave this question sort of suspended in the air, but I would like to know what the reasons are for those who report them for one time. But I understand that since the authors aren't in the room, I probably won't find out, but I'm leaving this question sort of suspended in the air. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u12	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I am in the so-called extraordinary mode. Well, I'm asking the senator who put his laptop in my briefcase, thinking it was his briefcase, to pick up that laptop. There's a special mark on the caricature of one of the ministers. If he tells who, I'll give it to him. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Extraordinary profit.]] [[You're so flashy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Senator Florek speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a parliamentary bill. Yesterday we asked questions about this bill to the rapporteur, who tried to answer as much as possible and his knowledge. Then we wanted to ask questions either to a government representative or to an applicant's representative, but unfortunately there was no one. Neither a representative of the government nor representatives of the applicants. This is an important law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, the question arises as to how the Senate is treated, since in the case of such important laws that are being taken... This is another law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Like Senator Libicki, I'm lost and I don't know if it's already the fifth or sixth this year... Anyway, another one. That's not enough, it's a split bill... It's all made up of basically three laws. Firstly, the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which we are considering today. Second... We know that the Sejm is already working on a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition to all of this there will be a law of introduction, because this is the record Article 2 39 of the bill under consideration today. Ladies and gentlemen, as I recall, according to the legislative technique, the introductory law is being introduced... This is possible when they are e.g. Two laws that need to be synchronized so that they are compatible. The State of Senators remembers the Act of 10 May 1990, which introduced the Local Government Act and the Local Government Act. It was a colossal bill, a large system bill, but it was really right to make such a bill. And what is the reason for this matter to be divided into three laws... Well, we'll watch, watch, consider each bill separately. But there wasn't the slightest need for this sharing, because it could be included in a single bill. But these decisions have been made, and we have today's first law on the status of judges. Well, I can say that this is actually a ghost act, because we don't know when it's gonna come into force. We're just gonna find out, but when, we don't know either, because there's no introduction law at all. It would therefore be appropriate to ask the Minister, the Members, yesterday, when these laws will come in, how they will be synchronised, but unfortunately that was not the case. So we're making a bill that we don't know when it's gonna come into force. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few details about the law itself. Of course, it would be possible to discuss this law for a long time, there are many interesting punks, for example, the age of 70 years for Members, medical certificates to be presented, which you do not know when, from whom, you do not know what it is to look like... I have noted only a few important points and therefore I propose the following amendments to the Act on the Status of Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted by the Sejm... 5 amendments, yesterday I had 10 prepared, but I came to the conclusion that I wouldn't bother, because anyway, in my experience, I know that it doesn't give much, so I'm going to signal only 5 amendments. Amendment 1 - delete article. 5. Ladies and gentlemen, Art. 5 reads: The service of the judge of the Court shall be established after the oath has been taken. The judge shall immediately take the oath at the Court for the purpose of taking the oath, etc. You know, you know this... Of course, when a business relationship is established, we have completely separate sentences. If a member of the Court, a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, is elected by the Sejm, that is to say, he is elected, the oath is only an additional act to take action. I therefore request the deletion of the article. 5. Next amendment, delete Article. 7. I quote: The judge of the Court follows the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, adopted on the basis of separate provisions. And I ask: what separate regulations? It would also be questions to the minister: when they are passed, who is to approve... We're talking about an important case, a code of ethics for judges. We remember the articles of the Constitution in which, with regard to the judge of the Court, it is stated that he corresponds only to and only to the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, here's the code of ethics. Of course, judges can introduce a code, but I don't know if a general assembly would have had to... We have absolutely no idea what it's gonna look like, what it's gonna be like... We're gonna read the next bill, and we're gonna find out that it's not consistent with this bill... Well, we don't know... I therefore ask for this deletion. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Excuse me, I'm looking for... Oh, there it is. . Notification by the Judge of the Court of Justice of the offence referred to in Article. Paragraph 24 1, the President of the Court may submit: Judge of the Court; President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the Prosecutor General. I propose deleting point 2, because he is obviously incompatible, like the previous ones, with the constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, now art. Paragraph 24 1. I read: The judge of the Court is liable disciplinaryly to the Court for violation of the rules of law, the failure of the office of the judge of the Court, the violation of the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal... I propose to delete the words "Ethical Code of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal." There's no code, we don't know what it's gonna be like, how it's gonna rise... If we know anything more about this, we can, of course, discuss it. And one last remark, Art. 33. The Judge of the Court of Justice shall not be a member of a political party, a trade union or a public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the Judges and shall be required to maintain the dignity of the status of Judge of the Court at rest. The Judge of the Court of Justice shall, at rest, act in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, a retired judge cannot be part of a political party. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3, is the provision that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may not belong to a political party, a trade union, etc., etc. during the period of office. I'm not gonna read anymore. The constitution is clear. In the period during which the position is held. This applies to judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. If the legislator wanted to record that this applies not only to active judges, he would have done so, but there is no such provision in this article of the Constitution and therefore there is no such delegation. There is a breach of the delegation from the Constitution and, in my opinion, this provision is incompatible with the Constitution. Of course, it can be improved. Please change the constitution and make an appropriate provision in the Constitution At the same time, this will be in line. This is another point, an article that is incompatible with the constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done here. Many other comments on this project could really be made. I'm sure we'll return to this bill when the next two laws are discussed. Let's see if they're consistent, compatible. At the moment, it is difficult to vote on a law that is somehow connected to others, and we have absolutely no knowledge of it. Of course, this is acceptable in the technique of legislation. That's what the lawyers say. However, we should have the other projects submitted so that, when we adopt a resolution, we have knowledge of what is in them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a law that is a consequence of what happened, among others. in this House in its previous term of office, at the beginning of June 2015, when the Civic Platform pushed through the already famous Constitutional Tribunal law. This law later turned out to be an act in the non-constitutional part. If we recall the debate at that time, notabene with the participation of President Rzepliński, who was then present, the argument which was then used, and the issues which were then raised... If the ruling Civic Platform at that time learned from all of this, there would be no whole crisis around the Constitutional Tribunal. The great cause of this crisis In the past, substantively and politically, the Act of June 2015 was adopted. Therefore, when I hear today from the Civic Platform complaining about what is happening in Poland, the words that the rule of law is threatened and that the pillars of the democratic rule of law are being violated, I admit that this argument sounds incredibly simple for a very simple reason. Because it's not enough to apologize. Yes, there was an apology, but the legal consequences and consequences that have been caused are essential to the quality of our public life. And that's what you have to remember perfectly. And that is why what is being done today, plus one more element of this whole case, namely the role of some judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, who add oil to the fire and their attitude, not to be counted with dignity, seriousness and all that is attributed to the judge's office... They take actions that are difficult not to judge in political terms. All this causes us to try to question the constitutional order in the Polish state. In my deepest conviction, this bill Yes, she is a partial act, but even Senator Florek has admitted that we, as a parliament, have the right to adopt such a law. It is a matter of ordering matters in this matter. It is worth noting here that the judge at rest remains a judge. Being at rest is not a separate kind of being. Such a judge does not rule, yes, not attend the general assembly, but still remains a judge and, above all, enjoys great privileges as resting. I will remind you that the retired judges of the Constitutional Tribunal receive at least several thousand pensions for life, no matter how old they were, they receive, among others. It's a privilege. They also have other privileges resulting from the status itself, the fact that they remain retired. Therefore, it is clear that since I am thinking here of the retired prosecutors in relation to other legal professions, Some regulations apply, and similar rules apply also to such specific judges as those of the constitutional court. Unless we consider that the Constitutional Tribunal is not a judicial authority. Then, of course, we can discuss this. But the fact that the Court is a judicial authority is clearly stated in the Constitution and we will not change that fact. Therefore, I believe that the law at issue here is a good law. It's a necessary act. This is due to some practice that has developed and to the conflict over the past few months. And that is why I support this law as much as possible and I hope that this conflict, which is also used for political purposes, which is also used to internationalize Poland's internal problems by the opposition, which calls itself a total opposition and tries to use this conflict for its narrow interests and for its political purposes... I hope that the situation around the Constitutional Court will finally... I will remind you: the first cause of this conflict was the famous June Act of 2015. I hope that this law will help to stabilise this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please speak to Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u18	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Minister, I am addressing the Ombudsman here. It is a happy fact that you are here, among us, when we are talking about fundamental matters for the rule of law in Poland. It's tempting to refer to the words of my predecessor, but I won't. Maybe I can just say that in a situation where a senator, especially an experienced senator, meets a law in which there are repetitions of entire paragraphs of the Constitution, he used to say that it is unacceptable and that it is a legal bubel, not a great bill. If it meets rules that are clearly incompatible with the Constitution, e.g. giving the President de facto the opportunity to decide when the judge will be a judge and take up his duties, or entering into the matter of human rights, civil rights, when these are provisions gagging the possibility for judges to speak at rest, then I am sure that he will say that this is a bad bill, evil from the very beginning, evil in his intention. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we used to write an assessment of the current state at the very beginning in the justifications of the laws. And I would like to ask this question: and what is happening today with regard to the proceedings of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and for so many years of operation has been bad, that it is now necessary to submit such a law? Well, nothing like that happened. The question therefore arises as to the purpose of this submission. Well, this sixth law is aimed, as is the previous one, at destabilizing one of the most important institutions of the democratic state. I ask you, in the political statements relating to the Court, we often hear that the amendments to the various laws are adopted with fear that the Court would oppose the reform plans of Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, the only laws of what you are doing, which the Court has questioned, were those relating to the Court itself. It's been a year, and you have no proof that anyone wanted to hinder your actions in any way in the wrong faith. It must be said today that this is a lying argument. So if that's not the case, if nothing's wrong, then what's the matter? Why are you doing this? I think the answer needs to be placed in the future. And this should be a source of concern. Apparently, it's about having the Court slow or not functioning. Such questions need to be suspended in the air: What else are you preparing for us? Why do you need it? When postwar Europe woke up after the nightmare of World War II, it learned from this hecatomba. In an institutional sense, in individual countries, the expression that we have done the lesson of millions of lives, was the appointment of constitutional courts, it was the appointment of tribunals in a new sense, tribunals which expressed the belief that political power, especially executive power, is not fully empowered, that yes, it can shape politics, it can shape social life, it can shape law, but within the limits of the Constitution. In my opinion, you are destabilizing the Court because you want to cross these boundaries. I can't find any other explanation at the time that's gone, or... Because it's not that you're being disturbed. That's what bothers you. Court. And it bothers you not because of what happened, but because of what is planned. This bill is not only defective in terms of detail. I'm not gonna get into this, but it's working out in this cycle of... I already said today, Mr. Marshal, no one is even trying to prove that this is a repair bill. It's just that a mechanic who's been fixing the same vehicle for the sixth time is embarrassing himself. This is an unnecessary law, which contains non-constitutional rules, which hits civil rights and sets itself in a series of projects that can actually hit the foundations of democratic order in Poland. And that is why we must speak out loud about this process, especially here in the Senate, which, by his own choice, decided to ensure that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which has allied with the Ombudsman, with the Supreme Chamber of Control, with the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, were enforced in order to ensure full compliance with the law in Poland. In this House, such laws should land where they belong in the basket. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski. Oh, before I give the floor to the senator, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that the current Senate meeting has been extended until tomorrow, i.e. by 17 November 2016 You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Mr Ombudsperson! High Izbo! There's so much constitutional iniquities in this statement that I just talked to a fellow senator about it. I don't really know where to start. Ten minutes to say it, it's definitely not enough. And as for Senator Jackowski's speech, completely psychic, about the fact that much has been said about internationalization and so on... After all, none other than Minister Waszczykowski invited the Venice Commission, which is now being ignored completely by the great legal authorities. They exist whether you like it or not, whether you want to gag them or not. They are and they will remain. I hope that in the near future, the law students will learn how not to create the law, how to celebrate... how not to observe the law and the law simply change the constitution. After all, the Constitution guarantees greater freedom for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, who are only judges for 9 years, not for all their professional activities, than for judges of universal courts. Art. 195 expressly states that it may not belong to a party during the term of office. And that's constitutional. And to say that he cannot speak publicly at all is a manifest violation of the Constitution, is just a desire to close his mouth, scare and close his mouth to the authorities, former Presidents and judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's not going to work, because there are other bodies, there's an ombudsman who bravely and uncompromisingly defends civil rights before the Constitutional Tribunal, but the one who supposedly previously ruled on laws created in the days of the Platform. Look... [[Cell phone signal]] [[I'm sorry. I'd like you to keep your phones quiet in the courtroom.]] ...what were the decisions of the Constitutional Court, what were the judgments. It was assessed law created during the period of power by the Civic Platform, during this period. Please assess this, and only then, through the prism of these judgments, can you tell us what position these judges have... And as chairman of the Legislative Commission, I can say something about this because we've looked over, but not only, we've worked over 150 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, including those that were behind, earlier. There were dozens of laws, projects that came out of the Senate, of which we were just proud. These were the fruits of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, the supposedly one-party one who judged the law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the opinion of the National Judicial Council. I'm proud of being a member of this organ for eight years. I recommend to you the reading of this resolution, the position of 15 November 2016, which explicitly states that the content of the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 November 2016 does not meet the requirements of the principles of correct legislation, based on the principles of legislative technique. This normative act undermines the stability of the legal system in the field of the system, contains a number of unclear, inaccurate and inconsistent rules that have not been compatible with the legal regulations that have been in place for many years, thus not only does it comply with the principle of correct legislation, but does not meet the requirements of the principles of legislative technique. Art. 197 of the Constitution states that the law should specify the organisation of the Court and the procedure for proceedings before the Court. These are issues, as the National Judicial Council writes. Which should be regulated by the legislator in such a way as to ensure the reliability and efficiency of the institution. And you're tearing it down, you're putting in completely different solutions. After all, the Seym, by choosing... It's from the Constitution. The election of the Judge by the Sejm shall determine the beginning of his term of office. This is the beginning of your term, not the taking of your vows, the moment of your vows. It's anti-constitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an additional, completely irrational provision that Senator Florek also spoke about. 'Cause on the one hand, art. 24 provides that the judge of the Court shall be liable disciplinaryly for the violation of the law, the failure of the dignity of the judge's office, that is clear and, secondly, for the violation of the code of ethics of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. So the failure of dignity is different, and the code of ethics is an independent condition of dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, to me this is a complete puriazum, this is a complete puriazum. I'm not talking about that code anymore. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] No, there's no ethical. [[It's in his head.]] Yeah, it's in his head. Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of legislation is this? It was already mentioned here that it is not known when life will enter, because there are no transitional provisions. But these arguments are multiple. After all, all these formalities which are imposed on the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal The judges here must examine the calendar carefully, etc., because otherwise... And here the Helsinki Foundation clearly states that these issues can, of course, be judged disciplinaryly as regards the question of the dignity of the office, but they de facto lead to circumvention of the principle of non-removalability of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's unacceptable. The judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is a judge for 9 years, and the end, unless he has just embezzled his dignity, and not yet any other ethical principles. So what? It must be recognised that in the general courts or in the Supreme Court, all judges who rule in disciplinary proceedings understand what the dignity of office is, only the judges of the Tribunal do not know it and must have an additional code. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. Let's respect those who are supposed to be prominent lawyers. Well, unfortunately, practice goes in a different direction. Because, ladies and gentlemen, here is... [[They're not, Counselor. That's what I agree with you on.]] No. Right now, right now... No. I'm talking about the last election. 'Cause it's not gonna be enough. I don't want to give specific names here. I don't want to meet the requirement to be a formal judge of the Supreme Court. There's a conjunction that you have to stand out for your legal knowledge. Distinction of legal knowledge is at least a doctor's title, it's at least some literature, it's at least some environmental distinction. I'm a lawyer myself, and I know that if you stand out, it's first and foremost that you know a lawyer who's somehow measurable. It's about publishing big... [[Master Stupid is there.]] Yes. He is a master, but he is a lecturer, he is a rector and he is an excellent... he was an excellent president, an excellent judge, also nominated, elected by President Lech Kaczyński. I think it wasn't an accident. [[One of two.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if I didn't overreact... I just want to say a few more words about this bill in general. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is not to be corrected. This bill is clearly to be rejected. This Act is in accordance with This has been mentioned a number of times here. The next system of devastation, the complete devastation of the Court and the introduction of people who will obey just one option. This can't be right. That's not what the Court is for. The Court is a safety valve against the parliamentary majority. He's the one who's supposed to be the censor, he's supposed to have the courage to say no to the legislator. That's what the Court is for. He is to defend minorities and citizens' rights effectively challenged by the competent authorities, including the very great role of the ombudsman. And that's why we, as an opposition, attach importance to this organ, to this pupil of freedom and democracy, and you so want to destroy this bastion. You fix it so much this year it's already the fourth... I'm just talking about this year, and we remember we barely made it to Christmas Eve or... [[...for New Year's Eve.]] ...for New Year's Eve. Well, it's New Year's Eve for some of us, e.g. Me, he passed... [[You weren't, Counselor?]] No, I didn't make it home. [[And I was.]] Well, I didn't get a chance to get there just because of the beginning of this repair. And now, in this bill, you're announcing another... Well, how can you make a law like that? Of course, I will be decisively against this law, because I believe that improving certain articles will not eliminate its complete lack of purpose. That's what we've been talking about. The National Judicial Council states that the justification for this proposal does not satisfy the basic requirements for the justification of the legislative initiative. There is no justification, there is no comparison of legal status. It's completely laconic and you don't really know anything. And that's why there's no minister today, there's no representative of the applicants. They're hiding, ladies and gentlemen. They don't know what to say, and they're making it difficult for us to process. [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is actually very difficult for law and justice, and for the legal order Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the sixth law in this term of office notified by the Law and Justice, which is intended to improve the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Is this about making things better? Of course not. Each of these laws is challenged by the Court, and the answer to this is not an improvement of the law, but another law which undermines this question and is intended to limit the Court's work. In principle, PiS is currently primarily concerned with the Court and, unfortunately, the Court has to deal mainly with its defence. This is the actual situation. In principle, this law contains many repetitions of the entire parts of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. Why? Well, it's not just a justification, it's a protection of what the designers are going to do. There are two important issues in this bill. Firstly, it creates certain consequences which will limit the statements on the situation in which the Court was given by former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, including former Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal: Zolla, Safjana, Stepnia. And this is the first fundamental change, which is fundamental from the designer's point of view. The second change, which is also intended to serve this purpose, is the repetition of a passage of a constitutional provision, which changes the constitution and which is also to justify all this. Proceding this law is a process that is hard to accept. Yesterday, we were surprised to learn that the bill passed by the Sejm immediately entered the Senate. Mr. Marshal has graciously agreed to a half-hour break at the request of the Platform Club. We didn't know that bill and we had to prepare. But it's not just us, it's the other senators, it's also the Senators of the PiS. There's no way to proceed on such a bill immediately, from the march. This bill has a systemic significance. That is why the proposal to refer it also to the Legislative Commission was right. Each time, the Human Rights Committee and the Legislative Committee jointly dealt with such laws. It's been five times. Why wouldn't they do that at the Sixth Act? I would also like to say that this sixth law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal is not the end. At the moment, the Seventh Law on the Constitutional Tribunal is being examined in the Seym, which will probably come to us at the next meeting. And I'm worried that we're going to have another bill sent to us by the time Law and Justice subpoenas the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Not yourself, just the constitution.]] This isn't an elite conspiracy. This is not a conspiracy of lawyers who defend the Constitutional Tribunal. The PiS did not think that there would be such resistance to the incapacitation of the Constitutional Tribunal. It was supposed to be a short political stroll. [[Voice from the room: Constitutional Taran.]] It turned out that this is not a short political walk, because the Constitutional Tribunal is the basis of the rule of law in Poland. I remind you that in the previous term, when the opposition was dissatisfied with the laws or thought they were violating the constitution, I heard such voices in this Chamber: there is still a Constitutional Tribunal, we will address the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Cell phone signal]] [[Excuse me, mute your phones.]] That, of course, was the right thing to do. [[Hasn't it been ten minutes?]] Senator Dobrzyński regulates my time, I understand. You should also regulate the time of your speeches. Okay? [[I thought it was ten minutes, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal speaks 7 minutes and 10 seconds.]] [[The watch walks too fast...]] This bill is being processed in a mode that I cannot accept. This law is also being prosecuted without the presence of the Minister of Justice or one of the Vice-Ministers. Isn't there a vice-minister in this ministry? Are they that busy? After all, this law was written in the Ministry, and the Members signed it, like all other parliamentary laws. That's the rule of action right now. The Minister doesn't have time to come and explain his doubts. The rapporteur was unable to do so, and I feel sorry for him. He probably also received this bill at the last minute. But the minister should be here. Every now and then, there is a charge against President Rzepliński that he participated in the proceedings over this law, although the principle is that the representatives of the institutions concerned are invited to the meetings so that they can respond or ask questions and that this right is best. And I would like to say that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has also been invited to this meeting today. And after these allegations, I understand he didn't come. After those allegations which he hears on the part of the Law and Justice and in the Seym, and in the Senate, that he is taking part in the work of the law which concerns the Court, i.e. he carries out his duty and responds to the invitation of the High House. Mr. Marshal Karczewski invited Mr. Rzepliński to this meeting in connection with this bill. But unless President Rzepliński is necessary, the Minister of Justice is necessary. This law is unconstitutional in several provisions, and also in its entirety, because if there are several non-constitutional provisions which are clou of the law, then the law is non-constitutional in its entirety. I therefore request that this law be rejected. I'm handing the motion over to the marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my opinion on the coherence of my opinions and views with those of my colleagues on the Platform. I also express a sense of communion with those silent colleagues from the PiS who, in the face of a bluff, do not take the floor for this bill. Unity in this House, although otherwise shown, is unique. Of course, there can't be consent... [[applause]] Of course, there can be no agreement for the Marshal to give us a ride when he has already put the item on the agenda and when the debate began, the documents that are to be the basis of this debate. The only justification is the fact that both you and Marshal Karczewski lost visual contact with the room, and this requires, unfortunately, a visit to the ophthalmologist... [[Fun in the room]] [[applause]] ...but I don't know anything about these things. There may also be a need to improve the connection between Mr Marshal's office and the sitting room. In extreme cases, I allow the bureau to be located in Mr. Marshal Karczewski's office. But to the point, to the point. Unfortunately, this thing could be And for that, I apologize both to those who are listening to me and to those who are here... My speech can't be substantive, but it can only be grotesque. We are dealing with grotesque, since within a few months, as has already been said, there is a bizarre duel between lawyers of the pamper style and elites or connoisseurs of the law for the lives of citizens. Except there's nothing wrong with saying that someone has knowledge on the pamper level, because each of us used to be a child and learn. Except some people learn in schools, in college, and some people learn in the street. And here is my first reservation: this document was developed by pampers on the street. Not only did she give us PiS and not only Mr Piotrowicz, but the whole of Poland, the Venice Commission. This document I read, and I had time for it, is very polite, gentle, but at the same time explicit. He says we don't know the fundamentals of law in a democratic state. But he's polite because he encourages us to work on this law. However, the most important condition of this document, reinforced by the Council of Europe resolutions, even by the candidates for President of the United States and others, has unfortunately not come to a fair conclusion. I'm surprised you didn't ask for an additional opinion. But I don't make such a formal request, Mr. Marshal. The question is that these documents should be looked at by Prime Minister Orbán, who is somehow silent in this matter. [[Applause]] It can be accepted as an expression of support or an expression of such shameful silence that we have here, here in the hall. It's not like it's... You're laughing, aren't you? But Prime Minister Orbán and his party were involved in a revision of the Constitutional Court Act, so he probably has a lot of experience in this area. I said it can only be done in terms of dialogue, in such a grotesque convention... I have expressed these reservations before, I think even shared. Well, for me, it's grotesque when the Court, the institution that takes constitutional responsibility for exercising rights, imposes obligations under ordinary labour regulations. Well, I'm very sorry, since the bill in the case of a constitutional court judge, but also of any judge, says that he has a business relationship, so long as I know the concepts of establishing a business relationship and working relationship, at least three conditions must be met. Of course, this is an indication of the position and the place of work. Let's stop. In this law, if this grotesque system were to be adopted, there is no indicated place of work. And I think it's Prime Minister Kaczyński... sorry, the country's biggest politician pointed out that the place of work doesn't have to be in Warsaw, that it could be I don't remember anymore. In Kolushki or something, as he said. Well, in this bill, unfortunately, there is no designated place of work. So I'm sorry, after this vow. Professor Seweryński is known as a specialist in these matters. Where's he gonna go to work? [[To Rzeszow.]] The Constitutional Tribunal is a name, it is not a place of work. Therefore, this law should also indicate the street and desk, because the desk is very important, as you know, there is no... [[And a toga.]] Or maybe the cathedral, because I think the judge is behind the cathedral... So at least these elements should be indicated. Of course, the third issue is remuneration and responsibilities. Well, responsibilities are fortunately still in the Constitution. To stay in this... But maybe we should just give up on... No, there's one more grotesque thing... [[And a receipt for the toga.]] ...very serious. Well, someone, someone who served this ball to Mr.Piotrowicz, focused very much on getting the shares covered by the Act. And I know people who make more money at poker or solitaire. Question: why isn't this bill covered by the solitaire and poker game by judges? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I mean, there's a lot of money... Or roulette... Why just these immortal actions? In fact, stock in the days of the PiS flies down and actually you need the President of the Court, if he leads such games on the market, to pay... [[Fun in the room]] ...in the name of fulfilling his patriotic duties. This is another grotesque. And another grotesque. Well, if he gives it to his wife or doesn't say that his wife has any income, business, any puzzles, maybe lose her job or even lose her job. However, life shows that the President of the Court or the Judge of the Court Whether I say so, alive or at rest; he is not to be alive, I think he may have grown children, a son and a daughter. Question is, if he transfers these shares to his son, daughter or hides these enormous profits from our stock exchange, will he lose his position or lose his position? Like I said, there's a lot of grotesque. They are reinforced by the street lectures of Mr. Zaradkiewicz and the hysterical sounding of the current judge of the Court of Przyłębska. I would like to refer to what the Supreme Court has said. The Supreme Court clearly, Mr. Silent, indicates that it is not possible to create the seventh and eighth laws within six months. I predict that if these laws act restrictively, I will run again in the election only for one purpose. To write a bill on persecuted judges at the Court so that they can be compensated. Here we can deal with persecution, freezing the entire system of legislation. As I say, the decision takes place in instant mode, so as not to say that in such a zoo... Senator Augustine asked why. Yeah, what's the point of these procedural cases so quickly? But it's obvious. I heard the Deputy Minister of Justice himself say that so that the public didn't know anything and didn't know it. Simple answer. It's just to be quick, so people won't know anything in principle. Right? [[Mr. Senator...]] And they won't know because they don't have anything in their head. [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] And the question of the purpose of this whole project, which I had to present so grotesquely here. What is the purpose of this? Well, that's for the revolution to take place. We've been wrong so far... [[Mr. Senator...]] Already? Thank you. [[This is a well-deserved senator, Mr. Marshal, so that...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I see you have a good connection with me, but the last sentence I have to... [[You've got five more minutes you can use.]] [[Use it for five more minutes.]] Then I'll take the five minutes. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You've outdone yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It will be really hard to speak after Senator Rulewski. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It was worthy of that bill.]] [[Well, maybe I'll leave.]] No, no. I'd appreciate it if the senator stayed. I have decided to speak again to protest against what is happening in the Seym and the Senate. The procedure in two cases describes one word - I don't care. - I don't care. This disregard applies, first of all, to procedures. What we were sentenced to yesterday and today by the Universal Courts Act and this bill... The procedure applied here forced us to work in a hurry, without sufficient preparation. The opposition was not given the opportunity to work as part of a committee meeting. That's not enough, two things were done in parallel... [[Legal...]] Yeah, legislative. But, as I say, it is even done in such a way that in parallel two committees are convened at a time when such an important bill enters the Senate. And the second kind of disregard is disregard by the Minister, who has not found the time to be here today in the Senate when discussing such an important bill. This is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen. And maybe you think that's how you treat the opposition, because we just lost the election, maybe we're less important. But it's disrespectful. And you, gentlemen of the Senators. Two gentlemen sitting so I can only speak to two senators of the Law and Justice... [[Voices from the O.R.: Three!]] Sorry, three. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. [[No, five.]] [[No rapporteur.]] What I'm talking about, ladies and gentlemen, means... [[Five.]] ...disregarding the gentlemen, including our entire House. This is disregard for the Senate by not coming here, and by passing laws here in such mode, at night, in the evening, in the afternoon, the Sejm has more time to work, the Sejm committees have more comfort. We work in a hurry. And once again, it's disrespectful. So is the absence of representatives of the minister who didn't want to come here today. So that it's about ignoring It's a first. Secondly, I'd like to say... I will not repeat all the substantive arguments that Senator Florek and Senator Zientarski have put forward, but I would like to address one point: I cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that society with such little knowledge and legal culture will be deprived of the voice of the most outstanding representatives of the legal community. I can't imagine. The state shuts their mouths. Of course, you also close your mouths to your nominators. Because your judges, with great experience, professorial titles, etc., etc., will not be able, in accordance with this law, to speak after going to rest. This is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, because we are a young democracy and we very much need such a voice. We need the voice of the most experienced, best lawyers in Poland. Thirdly, I would like to say that this dismantle of the judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the courts and the prosecutor's office is really I'm gonna use a big word. The biggest crime in the country that can be done in such a short time. You did this within a year. And not only will the current Minister of Justice be responsible for this, but also any of you who will put your hand to it during the vote will vote in favour of another law disassembling the legal system in Poland. And I'd actually say it's another nail in the coffin of the Constitutional Tribunal. Also this yesterday's bill, which is another nail to the coffin of justice in Poland, separation of judges, prosecutors, etc... I would like to say that it is sad that so few people on the part of the Law and Justice are in the Chamber today that so few are speaking. And I assure you once again... I ask you to think about it and I appeal. Hope you don't have to be ashamed in a year or two when the Civic Platform or any other opposition that takes over will have to throw it all in the trash. 'Cause it's just for basketball. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In my speech yesterday, I justified why the bill discussed here is not worthy of us taking care of it at all, and why it is derogatory for this House to take care of it. Because if we take each other seriously, And the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform take the Senate seriously. We shouldn't be dealing with such legislation at all. For years we have been proud of our democracy. For years, we've treated her as our export goods. For years we have advised in the east of Europe. There was also a time, after the Arab Spring, when in North Africa we advised on how to introduce democratic mechanisms. We shared our democratic experience. It was they who asked us what democracy should look like, how it should work. And we have consistently said that democracy is not just election procedures. We have consistently stressed that democracy is then and only when, in addition to electoral procedures, fundamental rights and civil liberties, human rights and minority rights, including political rights, are respected in the Constitution. We have consistently stressed and continue to stress that the law should be above the current policy. The situation in which current politics dominates the law is the most dangerous situation for democracy. And this law sixth, in turn, by which the Constitutional Tribunal is trying to completely dismantle itself, should be evaluated in that perspective. I called it a gun law yesterday, because it's a law that puts a gun to the head of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Under the threat of disciplinary sanction, he tries to break his back to the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, tries to subdue them to one centre of political power, and gags their mouths, both now that they are in office and in the future when they are at rest. I was using comparisons yesterday to a carpenter who was forbidden to talk about a carpenter after retirement. We senators could also be prevented from speaking in public matters when we stop being senators. The majority of the governing authorities in Poland are trying to gag the mouths of judges who will retire. For these reasons You've had a chance to hear from law and justice. here we all find this law extremely dangerous. I remember and we remember. The evening when the Constitutional Tribunal was tried for the first time in this Chamber. It was December last year. We remember Minister Ziobro speaking to us for three hours, explaining why this should be the case. He was present, answering questions, developing his thoughts. There's no one here today to represent the Minister of Justice. We must not only ask what the Minister of Justice is afraid of, not wanting to attend this meeting, but also demand that a representative of the Ministry of Justice be in this Chamber. We demanded this at the convention meeting. I have requested that the Marshal renew his invitation to the Minister of Justice and that the Minister of Justice attend this meeting, listen to us and give the senators a chance to ask him questions. He didn't take this opportunity. Therefore, on behalf of the Senate Civic Platform Club, pursuant to Art. 48 (1) (a) 2, please pass the formal motion for a recess in our deliberations until the Minister of Justice appears in the Chamber. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u29	I understand that Mr President wants us to vote right away... [[This is a formal conclusion.]] Good. I'm calling a 15-minute recess until 11:40. After the break, there will be a vote. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 25 to 11 minutes 41]] I'm reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. Before the announcement of the break, Senator Klich submitted On behalf of the club, I understand. Formal application. Could you remind the senator what the conclusion was?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u30	Mr. Marshal, this was a motion, in the light of our Rules of Procedure, to postpone... the adjournment until the Minister of Justice or his representative arrives in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u31	Thank you. Is there a vote against it? You're welcome, Mr. Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u32	I object.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u33	We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of Senator Klich's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 69 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 44 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 29]] The motion was rejected. We continue the discussion. Senator Dobrzyński signed up for the next vote. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, then, Mr. Senator, from the thick pipe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, my previous speakers in a significant, clearly overwhelming part acted in a way... that is politically speaking, it was politically speaking. However, Senator Ziientarski's speech is noteworthy, and it is worth noting at least a few things that the Senator raised. Well, the senator referred to the position of the National Judicial Council. Mr. Senator, I happen to have two positions with the same print number. One is from 15 November and the other is from 6 October. And, sir, about this position you seem to have called for. I think this is about November 15th, but we're about to get to that... Well, I have an 880, October 6th, and I quote, Mr. Counselor, Mr. Senator... [[It's up-to-date.]] In reply to the letter of 21 September 2016, I kindly inform you that the project submitted does not concern the project referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 6 of the Act of 12 May 2011 on the National Judicial Council And here is the number of the Official Journal of the Laws, etc. The scope of the cases to be assessed by the National Judicial Council. Therefore, I consider the issue of an opinion in the present case to be pointless. [[No, it's not the same...]] Same print, Mr. Counselor. And second position, also print number 880... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And here, Mr. Counselor, we read in the operative part: "In view of the observations made and observations made, the National Council of Administration critically evaluates the bill put forward for its opinion. I'm not gonna read anymore. So, if we're talking, Mr. Senator, about the judge's dignity, which you mentioned. It is I who understand that the dignity of the judge can somehow be tried in the framework of the law, so to speak, but every judge for this dignity works alone. And from these documents, it's just a mess. I know your speech might be... The concept of dignity is superior, but let us remember that each of us, doing our job, deserves more or less respect for this dignity. And so do the judges, Counselor; you know that very well. The judges themselves must earn this dignity and our trust. You also said something like that: "You're tearing down the state of law, or you're acting anti-constitutionally. I'll remind you, Mr. Counselor, you need to know this. After the second round of presidential elections, President Andrzej Duda, then the electoral council, asked Prime Minister Kopacz and others from the government not to take action on the political affairs of our country. After all, Mr Counselor, if it had not been for June and October 2015, if the Civic Platform had not been manipulated by the Constitutional Tribunal Act, which had caused the attempt to select the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to move forward, no one would have dealt with the Court. So this is the aftermath of the failed rule of the Civic Platform. [[And who verified that?]] Mr. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I ask, where was the Ombudsman at the time? Where were the presidents of the Court who are now speaking? Where were they then that they did not warn that the conduct of the Civic Platform was a violation of the Constitution? You guys started it. I'm telling you again. No one in this term of office and no one in the PiS would be taking care of the Constitutional Tribunal if you didn't break the Constitution then. [[Jumping to the Court.]] [[Whoever fights by the sword dies by the sword.]] High Izbo, we all know Gentlemen, senators of the Platform. They know that, too. The President's conduct is political. President Rzepliński is speaking politically on various issues. After all, he is already giving an opinion on the draft laws that are still at the stage of the discussion and have not been put under the table of our Parliament. [[Fifth power.]] Thus, the Constitutional Tribunal has necessarily become a political body as a result of the actions of the Court, parts of the judges and, above all, as a result of the actions of the President. I repeat, no one at the time when you broke the constitution was speaking. Neither the Ombudsman nor the former Presidents of the Court. If that were the case, it certainly wouldn't have happened today. Well, Mr. Senator, we have to deal with this. We are representatives of the governing party and we need to put these issues in order. Moreover, let us not overestimate the actions of the European Union or the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission's opinion was... Well, I admit it wasn't worth asking for that opinion, because you could expect action from the other side. These various complaints, these trips to Brussels of your representatives, as well as the actions of the Ombudsman, which, in my view, are reprehensible, do nothing good. We have to do our Polish business here, Mr. Senator. Now he's in charge of the PiS, but in time he might be in charge of another party. It's not like it's something once and for all. We have to do our own business, our own Polish business. And some people who perform the honorable, very high functions in our country do not deserve to say that they act in the interests of the rule of law, the democratic state, in the interests of our country. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rulewski is speaking for the second time, so let me remind you that the senator has five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Augustine asked... I think that more people ask themselves: why do such grotesque actions serve, not just in this law? What or who's behind this? Who is the author of this script? There's no denying he's behind this. I'll be honest with you, I'm responsible for this. The country's largest politician. The country's greatest politician doesn't hide that he wants to revolutionize. I think we were wrong about Marshal Borusewicz when we said he wanted to do this, among others. by a crawling change of constitution. Today I am saying that he simply wants to block the constitution and that is what these various types of actions, not only of a grotesque nature, have a serious dimension in the functioning of the law, the rule of law in the country, serve. I'm not denying anyone the right to revolution, I've participated in one of them myself. It's probably even a human right not to accept bad states, however we judge it. The revolutions were carried out by Lenin, Robespierre, Marat and others. The last revolutionary was Chavez, right? All these revolutions I've got to tell you. With some exceptions in terms of impact, disaster has come to an end. In the revolution, Józef Piłsudski also participated in such activities. He fought between Japan and Paris and the United States, but most of all he worked in Poland. He was in exile. He was setting up armed forces, and indeed, this mission was successful. I am saying that Jarosław Kaczyński locked up in M1 on Żoliborz, staring at Misiewicz and others will not carry out any revolution, even because it is wrong... [[Don't insult me.]] Piłsudski brought freedom, and these actions confirm that freedom is being taken away. There's a discussion. There's a discussion about the rule of law. In fact, in public opinion, the one who, through freedom, sees other things on TV... There's such a belief that these are some kind of incomprehensible and unserviceable games upstairs. And I'm gonna bring up one topic that's common. There's no Senator Jackowski here. He was also involved in this scenario of showing that the Constitutional Tribunal is not only an institution of rights, but an institution that serves to improve the lives of Polish citizens, especially taxpayers. As you know from the Ombudsman's request, Mrs Lipowicz, the Court has ruled on the inequities of the current tax thresholds. He even stated that for today they should be revalorized to at least PLN 8 000 60. As you know, Senator Jackowski... PiS supported this, and Senator Jackowski, who has now escaped, particularly attacked the Ombudsman on 15 August last year and asked when this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal will be carried out. So? And what's this Court that's... And what's that? I look at Senator Borowski, who, together with me, knows what social resistance or civil resistance is... Well, I have a question for the High House: since the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has become a ruling in force, should the citizen pay taxes from the threshold of PLN 3 000 60 or at the level of PLN 8 000 60? If the PiS government didn't implement the postulate he was fighting for by such an excuse, then... I say that citizens in tax returns for the past year should not count the amount of income from items, from expenses, from PLN 3 000 60, only from PLN 8 000 60... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. Time's up.]] At least teach the revolutionaries that the children of the revolution want to eat, not just sing and applaud your greatest politician. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Jackie, what happened to you?]] Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. The senator's speaking for the second time, so he's got five minutes. I'll remind you, we'll have a recess at 12:00. [[I don't know if I'll sign up, explain.]] [[Well, explain why you did it.]] [[You're doing the circus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank all my fellow senators very much that they listened so carefully to my speech and wished to refer to this speech. I am able to defend any thesis from my speech on the basis of facts... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[No, no...]] ...not on a political level. So that these allegations, which are formulated, are simply absolutely unfounded. I'm picking them up in political terms, and I get it. I would like to stress: the first cause of all the confusion around the Constitutional Tribunal is the non-constitutional part of the June 2015 Act. In this Chamber, we spoke very clearly about this, respecting what the Platform was planning at the time: she wanted 14 judges in the Constitutional Tribunal. And what happened after that is the derivative of this first cause. [[June, June.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And that's not gonna happen, and no one's gonna change it. And that is the political, substantive and legal assessment. I'm going back to the essence of things. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when our debate is taking place, the CBOS has provided very interesting data that I would like to present to the High House. Well, traditionally according to CBOS, the Sejm's work is misjudged... that is to say, it's a good estimate of 28%. , by 1% more than a month ago, when the Sejm's work was well assessed by 27%. Dissatisfied with the Sejm's activities is 58% surveyed, this is a decrease of 2 percentage points, and the Senate is 49% ,1 point increase. But the central office of the public opinion also asked respondents to assess the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. And what did it turn out to be? In its study, the CBOS points out that the Court's assessments are the worst of those already registered, i.e. since 2002. And that's the measure... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and this is the measure of this confusion which the opposition will share with some of the judges of the Court... [[Well, you did, indeed.]] ...constitution takes over. Moreover, 29% of the Constitutional Tribunal's activities are positive Subjects. Since October, a decrease of 3 percentage points. And negative. - Okay, okay, , increase by 3 points. [[Because Przylebska's there...]] In November, we are seeing a continuation of the October deterioration of the opinion on the Constitutional Court, which has made them currently record-breakingly bad, and has assessed CBOS. And I think the wise man will be fine. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[To the wise, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. [[What taxes are we supposed to pay?]] Dismissed until 12:30. I remind you that during the break there will be an exhibition on the life and work of Henryk Sienkiewicz. I cordially invite all your senators to the opening of this exhibition. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 58 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u40	I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will address Mr Jackowski, but also other Senators of Law and Justice who do not understand, as it seems, the basis of constitutional law. I understand that I speak here because I have, say, such an obligation. I happen to be the only constitutionalist in this House, and I deal with this environment. And I would like to say briefly that, above all, there is no question of political action by the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at least And the president. Why? The Constitution is a specific legal act, not only the highest, in the hierarchy of legal acts. It is not only so-called. It's rigid, it's framed, but it's in a different way than the bill, Mr. Senator. This constitution was also approved in a referendum by the sovereign and therefore has the power to do so. Not a party that wins, one or another, its will, can change itself in a constitution, whatever it wants. And that's what it's all about. There's no... Politics and political arguments cannot be obscured when it comes to the Constitution. Of course, the widely understood constitution is passed by an appropriate constitutional majority, as I said, approved and has, it can be said, also political, but in a simple political way it cannot be changed. Therefore, to say that someone interprets the constitution in a political way in one way or another... It is not true, it is a lie and it is ignoring the authorities of constitutionalists and teaching constitutional law. Because there are rules of interpretation and they are ♪ Some of it ♪ It's unshakable and unmistakable. Therefore, there are clear opinions of external authorities about which to... We didn't just ask for them, but we're in this club. Even without an invitation, it is an obligation for an organisation which is the body of this club, in which we are in, the European Union, to speak about constitutional standards. Therefore, if the Sejm has chosen for a specific term of office of 3 Judges, and then the judges are elected to which seats, because these seats are already occupied, simply the term of the term of office of the Judges is running, and it is not yet determined That's what the Sejm did, so where were the judges elected? [[What's that for?]] No, wait, we're talking about the constitution... [[Yes, sir.]] We're talking about a constitution, not, I'm talking again, politically obscuring... It is a great hypocrisy, Mr. Senator, to say that we have led by means of the June bill to what is happening now, to this whole remedial action implemented in these 5 laws or in the next ones already announced. We are, Mr. Senator, alone... You guys pulled out of this, even though you said she was unconstitutional, you guys pulled out of it. It's us, respecting your argument that there's doubt, we've given up, but the transitional rule is only for those two judges, and that's okay. Therefore, saying that we created a problem that exists and, as you announce, will still exist, is saying completely... I said, what's a gingerbread for a windmill? Because it's this kind of argument, a completely ridiculous argument. In order to give justice to our House of the previous term of office, I would remind you that the matter was not obvious. It was only the Court that set out this standard that the Sejm of a given term of office cannot elect a person whose term of office begins or expires in the next term. But there was this situation, and I would like to remind you that there was a law of choice, where it was said three months to indicate candidates. So I'm talking about these two additional judges, so-called. additional, on which the Court found that this was not the case... Once again, there was such legislation that candidates had to be submitted during that term. That was the legislation. So then there was a dilemma, and we were wondering whether to choose... On the other hand, it's like pointing out candidates and telling them that you're supposed to pick the ones we've introduced? 'Cause she's already in line with that bill... [[You don't believe what you're saying.]] No, no, I do, because I speak on the basis of material, legal material, which I stress once again. Of course, we respected that. [[You should have determined...]] But what I'm trying to say is that we didn't act the way you did, premeditatedly. We didn't have a pattern back then. The Court has created a pattern, it is sacred to us and there is no discussion. Meanwhile, you know what patterns are, you know what directives are. These are directives. Of course we have to... [[Time's up, Senator.]] Last sentence. We have to deal with these matters, no one will do them for us, but we are supposed to do them in accordance with EU standards, because we are a member of the European Union. [[And so it will be, Counselor.]] Oh, my God. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u42	Quiet, please. [[In corrigendum mode.]] Senator Jackowski. Please. [[But there was no such statement, so what correction?]] Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u43	Mr. Marshal, there was a personal statement addressed to me as Jan Maria Jackowski, so I am exercising my right to correction. Well, Senator, Counselor, as regards competence, I remind you that I voted against the Unconstitutional Law of June 2015 and that you, on the basis of your great legal knowledge, voted in favour of the Unconstitutional Law of June 2015. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Of course...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u44	Thank you very much. Please do not bring such discussions to this House. Who's next? Can I see your name, please? Please take the floor of Senator Fedorovich. [[There isn't.]] This is Senator Augustine. Come on in. Please see if the senator wants to speak or resign. [[Mr. Marshal! Minister! Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, ……]] [[One sentence of correction.]] Excuse me. I give the floor to Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Corrigendum. It is not true that the bill was unconstitutional. The law was constitutional, only part of the transitional provision was non-constitutional and it was verified upon request... [[Voice from the courtroom:...Law and Justice.]] Exactly. [[So she's a little pregnant.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[A voice from the hall: But he doesn't understand.]] You don't understand that you actually... You don't understand, you have to learn... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u46	Quiet, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u47	Again. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The first part of my speech ended with a question relating to the future: why are such systematic actions actually carried out paralyzing the possibility of the Constitutional Tribunal? But it seems to me that, regardless of the answer to this question, it is worth considering today what the effects of such actions are. Ladies and gentlemen, there aren't enough backup points in the world today. In the world of business, in the world of finance, in the world of investment, in the world of foreign policy And you could say that a currency that is extremely lacking or a good in which great values are denominated is trust. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the proceedings before the Constitutional Court are destroying trust. It destroys citizens' trust in institutions, trust in parliament, trust in the government, trust in the president, trust on an international scale, trust in Poland. And you could say, "My God, well, what it has to do with... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is really playing with fire. It's not like there aren't so many senators in the courtroom today, because they think: God, the subject played, how much can you talk about the Court... The media's interest is decreasing, because how much can be said about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the loss of confidence due to the attack and destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal has concrete consequences for each of us. And if anyone is surprised that investments are decreasing in Poland, then look at these questions that are addressed to law firms where they are asked about the Court. If in Poland the stock exchange flew around the neck, that Polish companies, including public companies, lost 40 billion PLN of value, then let's ask: why was trust in Poland and Polish companies lost? It seems to me that it is dangerous to tighten trust in our country, which will affect many areas and pockets of each of us. Therefore, I appeal: withdraw from this game, which does not serve the Court in any way, does not serve to build the authority of Poland, does not strengthen confidence in us, towards our partners, towards potential investors. Because the Constitutional Tribunal is ultimately a guarantee of our civil rights, a guarantee of compliance with the law, gives us a framework that certainly cannot be exceeded. I have such a feeling that, when I hear in the crouches the satisfaction that: here we have got them, here we are, but we put our money on ourselves. I don't think you're fully aware of the convection. Broader consequences, which do not concern the Court itself as an institution, only concern Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Did you run out of power?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u48	Senator Florek. Welcome to the discussion. [[Mr. Senator, the stock market has dropped by 2.29% for a year. If you think...]] [[I'm talking about public companies.]] [[If you think it's a fall on your neck, thank you... and congratulations...]] [[I'm talking about public companies, Mr. Senator. 40...]] [[Voice from the room: Stupid things can be said...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, gentlemen senators, I have not given you the floor. But I must admit that finding a correlation between the WIG20 and the Court's case... Really, Mr. Senator, it's threatening the Nobel Prize, really. [[In what field, Mr. Marshal?]] I give the floor to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u49	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal was, is, and will be, an authority wholly independent. [[It won't be known, Mr. Senator.]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, yeah!]] I'm... [[Gentlemen of the Senators, I have not given you the floor. Quiet, please.]] I am urgently this independence guarding. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't think anything can stand in the way of that. Mr. Senator, I've quoted someone's words. Do you know whose it is? [[I'm sure it's mine, Mr. Senator.]] No, Lech Kaczyński. And you just denied what Lech Kaczyński said. Ladies and gentlemen, you repeat like a mantra, over and over, the same thing: it's June... it's the Civic Platform... [[June and October.]] And in June, and October. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will probably have the opportunity to speak again because I will recall him because in his speech With a tablet, of course. He repeated what he had said several times, repeated it on TV, and on the radio, etc. Mr. Senator, I suggest you read it once from the front, once from the back, not the same thing all the time. Because we hear the same thing all the time. You say the same thing over and over again. I understand that it is as it was with the attack in Smolensk 30% people, people in Poland believe that there was an assassination, because you are still... And if you say it's the Civic Platform's fault... Well, ladies and gentlemen, just a simple... [[What does that have to do with the Court?]] A simple thing was enough... I'm just telling you what the message is. And if we repeat something over and over again, infinity... It's just a comparison I made. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter was simple: swearing on three properly elected judges, publish the judgments of the Constitutional Court. And there wouldn't be a discussion at all, a conversation. But you meant something else. The State meant that this Constitutional Tribunal would interfere with the laws which you are adopting and which are non-constitutional. You're looking at me... Well, the land bill. Do you remember when we discussed this? [[Mr. Voivode...]] We're just waiting for a ruling from the Constitutional Court on what you defended. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Jackowski was talking about it, again giving these statistics showing what it is to support law and justice. Come on, Mr. Senator, 500+ works. Promises and handouts always help, but, Senator, until then. There's gonna be a time when I'll remind you of that. I don't know if it's gonna be another year or two, but I'll remind you all about it. Because I'm getting scared! I'm already starting to get scared, because if this continues, if you continue to make such laws... Well, in a moment there will be an important law on the Territorial Defence Forces, another law, ladies and gentlemen... Well, we'll see what happens. I keep saying that these are preparations that are, step by step, certain preparations and at some point... [[There'll be a realization.]] ...you'll have to say either. And I just hope that by then we can all understand that. Senator Augustine was talking about the economy, about this... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's not related? Isn't it that investors are holding back investing in Poland at the moment? You can prove that, you can clearly explain that they're holding back. Of course, they are afraid, afraid of what will be the further development of the situation in Poland. That GDP is 2.5% And not more than that, it's also the result of that. And let's wait a few more months for what's gonna happen. If GDP goes down, it's gonna run out of money in the budget, and you're gonna have a problem. I am merely signaling that you are making a mistake right now by adopting these laws that are unconstitutional, which interfere with development. We are discussing these issues, and we should be discussing much more important issues for the economy, but unfortunately there is no such thing. I will allow myself again after some time to remind you of all that I have said about previous non-constitutional laws. And I'm really glad that this is all being recorded, because that's why we're gonna be able to discuss it very well. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u50	Mr. Senator Jackowski in what mode? [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u51	Senator Florek was willing to invoke my speech at this point and suggest to me that in my speech I spoke about support for Law and Justice. Well, Mr. Senator, I didn't say a word like that, I didn't say anything about support for Law and Justice. However, let me remind you that I quoted the CBOS study from which I quote... [[That the Court has 29%...]] ...that the Constitutional Tribunal's activities are positively expressed 29% surveyed, since October there has been a decrease of 3 percentage points... [[So what?]] ...and the negative is 43%. Subjects were raised by 3 points. And I was quoting the words of the CBOS commentary on these studies: in November we are observing the continuation of the October deterioration of the opinion on the Constitutional Court, which has made them currently record-breaking bad, because since 2002 such bad quotations have not been so bad. And that's all there is to it. I told you. Mr. Senator, if you want to argue with me, please quote me strictly because this is the basis for any substantive discussion at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u53	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm glad our colleague, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, is publishing it... I mean, he's not publishing it, he's just telling us what happened. But it's no surprise, because we all know the confusion around the Constitutional Court. And giving that data is actually... This is not a reason to boast, to be proud of it, but it is a reason to be ponderful about what has just happened and what has led so suddenly to a marked decrease in confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal. And it has been reduced through actions that unfortunately take place today. By debating once again on the so-called law. a revision of which you have taken for granted as a political objective. Despite many negative opinions And the authorities, and the people who are really far from politics, are far from practicing anything but a substantive conversation. And above all, without drawing on the model of the constitution... And she is our national good, and that is what we should hold on to, not political wars today and prove the superiority of our strength. You have this superiority because today you will vote everything out. And you can enter, like this point, out of the blue, without... [[Most of them, not necessarily superior.]] Yeah, most of them, not necessarily superior. And you can introduce any point like yesterday, but we also have examples of what wasn't in the previous term. I may not be in politics for long, I am in the fifth year, but I know that for four years most of you have been here in this Chamber and we have been able to debate somehow, we have been able to reflect on amendments, we have also been able to make good amendments. I don't know what happened in... To be honest, some senators don't even recognize it because they've changed dramatically. I don't think it's a good symptom when it comes to politics, and above all, it's not a good symptom about the Senate, which is really now. If you look at what happened 4 years ago, it's a different place for a substantive debate, different from what should be here. Is that, uh... I don't think there's a senator here talking about the stock market anymore. I know that these matters may not be related, but I will ask: are foreign investors not afraid of what is happening in Poland? The fact that we are fighting the buoys that we invite the Venice Commission, which comes in, checks everything and gives the guidelines, and then we ironically ridicule all of this and we don't take it... and we try to get out, we try to turn the cat's tail, we try to pretend that something that's here is good? Maybe not everything under the Platform, even with regard to the Court, was good. The platform apologized for that. She apologized for calling these judges... But the kind of behavior that's happening right now. At least during the last session of the Court, when two or three judges refused to attend, she ostensibly left the Chamber, thus binding the hands of the President of the Court... [[Strike.]] [[The strike is done.]] Yeah, strike. And this is shown by the media, sometimes in a specific way, which can also be seen from the ranking of trust in public television and news. As I said before, the only reliable information you can hear there today is the results of sports meetings, because in this case, it's hard to break. At the moment, the ranking of popularity is, for example, what ads appear there. • advertising, of which television has always had money for its activities. And you can see that after a year of government. Has the stock market changed? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, she's changed very much, and as far as the 2% is concerned, I do not know what this data is, because I quickly counted that the decline in the value of the Polish stock exchange began not at the time of the takeover of power by Law and Justice, but at the time of the May polls showing the real increase in support of this group. Most investors got scared and WIG, which was over 2,000 points, today is at 1 thousand 800 points. Let me just add that if anyone talks about 2%... I'm sending you back to your sources. See what shares are like, for example, of energy companies, which are mostly companies with the State Treasury. Their real decline over a period of one year is around 60%. Well, that's never happened before. No state will allow itself to have power companies... [[Which company?]] ...especially the strategic ones... [[Which company fell like that?]] Well, energy: Energa, PGE... [[Energa, Tauron.]] Tauron. Check it out. Besides, there was a further confusion, because today most of the company presidents have already been canceled. Take Orlen, take KGHM... But I want to console you that lately KGHM has increased a little bit, but only because copper in the world has travelled very hard and therefore also the shares of this raw material company have increased. [[I'll show you.]] [[But I don't want you.]] But that's not what I want to talk about. I just want to say that I... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I would like to say that, as a representative of the young generation, although I am no longer so young, I have spoken to many people on this subject who do not fully understand the whole dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal and do not want to get into the meritum, but believe that it is really wrong to think that we are still arguing about it. And the fact that there are no representatives of the Ministry here, there are no people here who should be taking part in the debate today, but it shows how you feel about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u54	Please take the floor of Mr. Czarnobaj. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think everything has been said about this bill and about the Constitutional Court. So I will remind you of what Senator Piotr Zientarski, Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Florek were talking about. In conclusion, I believe that it is a law of the rubbish kind, and so it should be approached. Well, that's the legal value, and it's about the most important documents in the country. After all, we make it as senators, and I remember that the Senate was always shown as a body that corrects any mistakes. Yeah, but what's going on with the legislation now can't even be described. And there's gonna be another bill on which I'm gonna take the floor and talk about state finances, taxes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address your marshal. I will not address many other senators because, as Marshal Borusewicz said, ignorance is an indication of conduct. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to say a few words about what one of the senators was talking about. Well, he was talking about the connection between what is happening around the Court and the economy. It is not that we are adopting a resolution on the Polish economy, but one of the most important issues, Mr Marshal, about which we are discussing today with entrepreneurs wishing to make a decision on investment, is the stability of the law. And no matter what you did, you will not convince Polish or foreign investors to invest in Poland if this is the law. Once again, I would like to say that today we will be discussing another law, breaking in a categoric way, so to speak, the things on which decisions were taken in 2004. After 12 years of functioning, one night, which is tonight, we have a bill that we are about to consider. That makes investors, Senator Rooster, because there are no others... Mr. Senator, I'd like you to know that. Because today you are playing with the law, playing with Poland, there is only one problem: if you are playing on your own account and with your own money, do it, but for all that is happening now, future generations will pay for it. Why is this so and what are the results? Ladies and gentlemen, you will not wash the facts. The fact that we have started, and you have finished this work, you can tell each other every day, and I will refer to it in a moment. But the facts are as follows. 60 billion in 2016 were put away by Polish entrepreneurs in their own accounts. Do you know how much they've invested? Less than PLN 2 billion. You're asking me why? Then ask them. After all, you were people who always wanted to talk, so talk to them. Go and meet not the Senators of PiS running business, but ordinary entrepreneurs. Ask why they do not invest in Poland. If we add such facts as a decline in the stock market... Is there a crisis in Europe or is there a crisis in the world? We don't see that in macro indicators. Poland has become one of the worst exchanges in Europe. We're just ahead of the Hungarian Stock Exchange, as I recall. It's the same vibe. But we're gonna be back up even further soon. If we add to it the maximum weakening of the gold, which causes us to pay as Poland Not you as people of Law and Justice, but us as Poles The higher interest on borrowings for your social obligations... I'm not discussing whether they're good or bad, but we'll all pay for higher interest. Why? Because we have one of the worst ratings and on international money exchanges they demand an ever higher percentage of us. And who's gonna pay for that? You will not pay for it, you will make all Poles submit to it. This is the result of your actions, activities around the Court and around legislation in the country, because stability is the most important thing in business. If we add GDP to that... It's been up to 2.5% lately. From the first place you laughed at, from Poland as this green island... Poland is already in seventh place today, and in a moment it will be even worse. And at the last meeting, the professor, who will be running for the Monetary Policy Council, said that a half-percent decline in GDP means that a few billion zlotys will not enter the budget. And you're still playing with the Constitutional Court and the stability of the law, proving that we're the ones who started this game. [[You're the ones who started it.]] Okay, we started it, we started the fun, but we didn't think about the fun you guys were doing. [[Respect the president because he's a statesman.]] You guys use arguments like a kid in kindergarten. Jasio hit me and you're pulling out a baseball bat. Therefore, I suggest that you take some control of this law, take it as senators of the Republic of Poland. Not Senators of the President, Senators of the Republic of Poland... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, exports dropped almost 1% in July, exports which were the foundation of income and development. If we add to this that we have had the lowest rate of private investment, government investment and local investment for the past twenty years... We are on a straight path to a group of great countries such as Greece, Venezuela and a few more I will not mention, because I will leave it for the financial debate. And that's the connection, Mr. Marshal. That's the connection. You don't need a Nobel Prize. Anyone who completes a simple course of study in Poland understands the link between legal stability and finance, economic activity, stability, etc. These are simple mechanisms. And you're not gonna scream reality with indications: you guys started it, we're gonna keep doing it. And now I will refer to what I heard here during the debate. I'm not gonna name names. But you'll know who it refers to. So there's no need to correct it. One of the senators said: the PO has given the sumptuousness to such activities. The other guy said it again. So if not for this sump in 2015, the Court would be at all our foundation for the legal oracle. That is what Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński said in 2006 and 2007 that this group of senior masters will not decide what will happen in Poland. Now it's added that it's a group of guys and stuff. Therefore, President Kaczyński and you are disturbed by something that is part of a democratic state. We do not take examples from Belarus or Russia, we want to act in Poland as in all democratic countries of the world, Dear Gentlemen, and you want to introduce and introduce at night on New Year's Eve, on New Year's Eve, God knows when, Belarusian and Russian standards. If we're talking about public research... One of the senators here quoted public opinion polls and concluded that a wise head is one word enough to read the research and understand what this is all about. Two aspects. If all the time in Poland has been repeated about the Court, about its political connections, about other things... Well, talk to you, people in Poland in the province are sick of all this. They're just naturally reacting. You beat this Court as hard as you can, and you're surprised the Poles are sick of it. Well, anybody would've hated it by now. The Sixth Bill, but now I hear that it's not final, it's just the beginning of some changes that you're preparing... [[Two more.]] Two more. Well, how much can Poland and Poles, Polish entrepreneurs, fight for the Court? I know when this is gonna be over, but for now, I'm gonna leave these distractions... This is therefore a normal, healthy reaction of Poles to what concerns the opinion on the Constitutional Court. Now, for example, about public opinion and data... it's for the senator who gave the data. Because you have to look at the data from the research, associate in your mind with knowledge, compare all these results and make a conclusion. This is a normal process of logic and thinking. If such simple things arise, then you can come to very bad conclusions. Because I asked for that motion and I didn't hear... Let me just quote that in 2011 as part of the public opinion poll Don't mess it up. 51% Poles believed that martial law was a good and balanced solution for Poland. 26% He thought that the creators of martial law should be oppressed, that is, as if punished... I blur the word "punished," but 26% Wanted their glory. What does that mean? That martial law, Senator Rooster, was good for Poland? No. [[No.]] The public was so encrypted by the miners of martial law that they were already waiting for us here to murder us that she reacted on the basis of everything she had heard in the media as well. Because often repeated untruth becomes a certain truth, obvious to many environments and to many people. I would also like to suggest, of course, unofficially, that Senator Rulewski discuss this issue. To amend this law a little bit so that it is no longer a statute on the status of judges, but a law on the status of judges and their families. After all, if President Rzepliński has two daughters and they are about to start preaching the same truths And it's hard to imagine that they're preaching to others. It won't be your idea to silence the President of Rzepliński. Therefore, this needs to be extended to the family. I want to ask myself: why do you ladies and gentlemen introduce in the bill that it is not possible to speak politically, only in the case of judges of the Court? After his term of office, every senator should be forbidden... What do you mean, his term's over and he's criticizing PiS? It's unacceptable, isn't it? You'd have to make a bill like this... [[applause]] ...Dear State, and extend it to the families of all the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, especially the family of the President, and the highest penalty should be, I don't know, the punishment of flogging, the prison, what you'll think of there. I would like to say that often in discussions in public space, here too, there is an opinion that governments are somewhat similar to the Polish People's Republic. I, too, sometimes give in to such mirages... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...but I want to say no, but those governments were more... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Gentlemen, a little culture!]] However, those governments were more predictable than the rule of law and justice, but you certainly have two things in common. In the Polish People's Republic, power was afraid of cabarets and jokes. When you watch TV today, you can see that actually on public television there are only those jokes that praise the Law and Justice. I'm not talking about commercial TVs, which you can have fun in your armpits, showing development and greatness... [[Time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal, last sentence. ...the rule of law and justice. You're afraid of it, too. The second element, which was always feared by power, was the statements of people like Janek Rulewski, like Marshal Borusewicz, because when these people said something, people bought it, took it as their own beliefs. I've heard speeches here. I'm going to use an example. Senator Rooster, who spoke to Janek Rulewski in an impeccable way... [[What?]] [[What are you saying?]] I would like to say this: you will not ban any laws, so that what Professor Rzepliński says is repeated in Poland. It is worthwhile for those who have a different opinion to be respected by you and to think about it at times. We didn't listen to everything in the previous era and that's why we have today, I'm talking about Poland, because of it a lot of trouble. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[We just want you to tell the truth because you lie all the time. Just tell the truth, nothing more...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u56	Quiet, please. Senator Rooster. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! Some of my colleagues' speeches They remind me of the Polish People's Propaganda. I'm not going back to history. There was this one leader who couldn't be remembered, who actually did something to praise certain systems out of propaganda. [[Voice from the hall: Goebbels.]] Yes, Goebbels. Let me put it this way: yesterday one of the reporters asked me whether the Constitutional Tribunal should be dependent on any party. I definitely replied, "no." Ladies and gentlemen, you can attack Senator Jackowski, who appeared and said: "Yes, gentlemen, on June 25, the Civic Platform launched an assassination attempt on democracy in the Republic of Poland. What would happen then, gentlemen, if you only elected three judges? Gentlemen, it's time to move forward, power would be taken over by law and justice, two judges would be co-opted, and there wouldn't be a problem. The polls showed that Law and Justice would take over. Therefore, it was necessary to quickly make amendments, select 5 judges to block all resolutions. The editor also asked me a second question: when will this circus end? And I answered straight:, when President Rzepliński will be a judge, not a politician. Ladies and gentlemen, little... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I'm really asking... Maybe that's the policy that in many cases I'm different from my colleagues, but even with my colleagues on the Platform, I discuss and respect our views. I'll tell you, one night you weren't a senator at the time. I was going with Senator Jackowski. It was then that the Act on the Court was rallyed during the PO-PSL regime. You're flying and you're covering yourself with a briefcase. Mr. Jackowski says to me, "Do you recognize Mr. Rzepliński?" I say, "I don't know this man." But now I've met him. I always respected Senator Jan Rulewski, although I disagree with many of his views, and protest against your statement. Now I will not agree either, because since he attacked Mr.Jarosław Kaczyński, I will say this: Mr. Senator Rulewski, My colleague, I was in Cracow on 11 November, in Sokole, after Mass at Wawel Cathedral, when the President said that he reached out his hand to reconciliation with all the people from all the political options for which the good of the Republic was the first. And he said such words that we must remember... Buddy Janek, he said that the European Union must remember the thousand fiftyth anniversary of Polish Christianity. He spoke about Christian civilization, reminded on the ninety-eightth anniversary of regaining independence that various political options were able to unite at that time for the good of the Republic. Mr. Marshal Piłsudski was a socialist, Mr. Dmowski was a nationalist, and Mr. Witos We all know, don't we? The Prime Minister of the People's Movement. That's what he said. Those were the words of Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński, that was a hand in hand. Gentlemen, does anyone like it or doesn't like it... History will judge that. I think he'll judge him as a statesman. Yes, gentlemen. I remember... You know that we, with Marshal Borusewicz, often exchange sentences, sometimes and harsh sentences. But, gentlemen, let us all remember that the most important thing is the beloved homeland. And for that, history will judge us. I remember it as in the Torwar. I've talked about it here once before. - St. - St. - St. - St. - St. - Mm-hmm. Mr. Lech Kaczyński's memory served... After all, Marshal Borusewicz was appointed by the Law and Justice in his first term of office in 2005. We all criticize, we say that there are no initiatives that do not enter Polish capital... Mr. and Mrs. Dear Mr. and Mr. Morawiecki said that Mercedes had entered, that Toyota had entered, is that a lie? Ladies and gentlemen, you will be criticizing Law and Justice for the fact that there is no scandal at Owl's cafe where these great politicians... On Wawel it was said... Today we are opening a wonderful exhibition about Henryk Sienkiewicz, a great patriot. And one of those people I think he's his grandson or his great-grandson. It says about Poland that Poland does not exist, that Poland does not exist. It's not like any of our law and justice people have ever said... And at Owl's, you tell the Deputy Prime Minister that $7.5,000 is for candy. Well... And now it's loud and clear that there's no Amber Gold scandal, there's no carbon scandal. What, gentlemen, we... I understand the opposition has rights. We as the opposition have been like these lambs during your reign since 2007, for the eight years you have ruled. I remember the years 2005 and 2007 when Mr Niesiołowski and Senator Niesiołowski... And what happened then? And we were at that time, when you were in charge, a really constructive opposition, not a destructive one. And now there's continuous destruction. Prime Minister, President Kaczyński in Kraków said clearly Gentlemen, he's made it clear In the Union, Prime Minister Szydło and the entire government will defend the Republic. And just so we're clear... He mentioned that the Union first grabbed the Hungarians At that time 10,000 Poles went to Budapest to support Hungarians. At the railway station I'm a railroadman, even Senator Florek said Hungarians kissed the Polish flag. And now someone is surprised that there is a very strong coalition between Hungary and Poland? Dear Member States, I am really appealing to everyone, as Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic, called on 11 November, let us leave these feuds as they were left behind in 1918, and let us really go... The idea is to make Poland really significant in the world and in Europe. 'Cause, Dear Lords, history doesn't have to teach anyone. Before independence, there were 123 years of captivity. How much blood did our insurgents give in the November Uprising and later in the January Uprising before it happened in 1918? And then there's the Kościuszko Uprising. I really urge you not to use the name of Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński as a thing. He owes everything! And I say, "I really know this man." And the Republic really comes first with him. And he's really a statesman. And so did Senator Jackowski. For what? For telling the truth? For having knowledge? After all, Mr and Mrs Dear, he is a historian. I don't even dare compare myself with him because he has great historical knowledge. And really, when we leave, let's respect each other. And I protest, Mr. Senator Blackbay... I never wrongly turned... it wasn't like I was insulting Senator Rulewski. For me, as I said, and as I repeat, some of Janek's actions are incomprehensible. Because I remember him as a hero, and I remember the Communists wandering him on the pavement in Bydgoszcz. And that's why I'm saying, Janek, I don't understand this alliance right now, this walking hand in hand with the pezetpeerists who... some actually were in the PZPR, and now they're supposed to be great defenders of democracy. You know who I'm thinking about, Janek. And I protest: I never said... Because he's also a man of solidarity. And I am also a man of Solidarity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u58	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay volunteered? [[But I guess there'll be a corrigendum?]] [[No, no.]] Good. Senator Elephant, please, [[I think he'll correct it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! What message will come out of this room to society when discussing this law? The fact that the Senate is pointing its hand at some kind of assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, some kind of slaughter of innocents, which is intended to close the mouth of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I specifically went to our clipboards to bring myself the text of the bill and see what is on these less than 11 pages and whether it coincides with what the opposition state is talking about, with this plarum that they are raising over this law, with this ripping of the robe that is taking place here. The speakers mentioned that issues relating to the Constitutional Tribunal were incomprehensible to young people as well as to many older people. So what message will come out of this room? What message should come out of this room? Why do we not treat this document, this law as a purely technical attempt to adopt regulations related to the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal? Why are we searching not only for double bottoms, but also for some other bottom under this bottom, and another bottom? Why are we looking for something that doesn't say here that we're just looking for? Why does it bother us that there is a chance that the Senate will also adopt a law setting out the way in which the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, hereinafter referred to as the Court of Justice, is established, the rights and duties of the judge of the Tribunal, the cases of immunity and personal immunity, and the principle of disciplinary liability of the Judge of the Court, the rights and obligations of the Court of Justice at rest. Citizens of the Republic of Poland, I reassure you: this is a purely technical law that talks about how the judges will be appointed, how the mode of their work will look like, how they will be well rewarded, what is their responsibility, what they can take... [[And ethics is a technical issue?]] ...how they're gonna be... I didn't bother the senator. [[But I want to know.]] ...how they're gonna... I don't... [[Mr. Senator, I haven't given you the floor.]] ...what their functioning at rest will be like, what kind of statements are to be made or made during this service relationship of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal and what kind of statement of estate they are to make. What's so perverse about these records that you're making such a fuss? Incomparable to what is written here, quite disproportionate. The Polish state, in order to achieve its goals, feeds on people of various professions. He needs good cops. It sets out the principles of their work, their service. I need good teachers. It also defines the way they work, how they will be rewarded, what curriculum they will have to support in that country in order to carry out their vocation. He needs officials, he needs scientists, he needs judges. He also needs judges from the Constitutional Tribunal. The legislative authority is putting a yoke on it. With full awareness, she yokes herself by regulating the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, so that an entirely impartial body, composed of persons of impeccable opinion, with impeccable character... He expects these people, this body, to assess how the law is being established. Is it something wrong that this is what the state is doing, that is what the Polish state wants to do under the rule of law and justice? That he finally wants to end this show that's been going on for a dozen months? It was mentioned earlier, and I'm not going back to it. What's so wrong with these records? Is there anyone who can be offended about that? Here you go, Art. 6: The judge of the Court shall be independent in the exercise of his office and shall be subject only to the Constitution. Does that offend any of the judges? Or a bunch of vows. Will it be insulting for any of the judges to take the oath of the following words: "I pledge solemnly in the performance of my duties as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal to serve faithfully the National Court, to uphold the Constitution, and to fulfil my duties impartially and with the utmost care? ' Many... I am convinced that many judges will say: 'So help me God.' I'd like to see the judges taking this vow, taking them to the Constitutional Court. I would like the Constitutional Tribunal to have respect for our society, an estimate. I'd like that ethos of the Constitutional Court that everyone's dreaming of coming back. What does it matter? What does this bill bother you about? Why does he miss? The judges don't come from another planet, they're not rented from another country. They are citizens of this country, who, when designating them for this office, want to hope that they are responsible people, filled with love for citizens and their homeland, who want to serve this nation and this country as best as they can. And that's what you hire them to do, based on their experience, their knowledge, for the years they've lived. That's what they're called for. What is wrong if the Sejm or the Senate says: Judge of the Court, take care of the seriousness of your judging, take care of it when you are an active judge, and take care of it when you are a judge at rest; you will not lack the means to live, you will continue to have social respect, but also take care of it yourself. I would like to see such a message from this Chamber that the Constitutional Tribunal Statute Act is a simple, less than eleven-page document with several technical annexes. And that there's nothing wrong here, there's nothing wrong with this bill being passed by the Senate as well. I reassure everyone: it serves only the good, also the good of the Constitutional Tribunal. Everything that my previous speakers from the opposition benches have said could be a bad thing that's happening around the Constitutional Court. I don't know why we want to look at the judges. Court for Egyptian priests. Let's look at them as Poles concerned about Polish matters, let's look at them as those whom the Polish state needs and from whom it requires reliable, honest and impartial work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u60	Thank you. Senator Czarnobaj, I invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude the previous thread, I would like to refer briefly to the need to deal with Polish matters in Poland. Of course, it is the right principle to deal with everything that can be done under the democratic procedures of the state, because you said so yourself, Mr. Senator. He's always ruining it, and he's building it. Polish sayings are wisdom... If not only the opposition, but people with different views are judged, then there is To put it mildly, so as not to go into the details and not to heat the atmosphere, to break their laws... We entered a family that had a course of action. And this big family is either talking about what's going on in the next family or not. I don't think it's anything perverse. Do you remember... Excuse me, I'll use an example. Senator Rogut, as a well-known oppositionist, a colleague of Janek, Senator Borusewicz, surely remember that the court-martial singer always said: America will not solve our problems, we have to solve them ourselves. And what were the Polish opponents doing? They used the help of the United States. So? In a situation where we want to use... to achieve our goals, it's okay how we use them, but like everyone else. - Maybe it's wrong. They want to take advantage of the conversation, to try to make a proposal for you, that's bad. And are these anti-Polish? No. Open yourselves up to those people who have a slightly different view, and it'll be easier for you. You guys are gonna be really relieved. Now I'm going to refer to what Senator Elephant said. Mr Senator, I do not wish to repeat the whole debate, but listen to what we have raised in this debate, which we have reservations about. That's one thing. But in general, I want to say yes. Mr. Senator, if you read... I understand the senator respects the Supreme Court's opinion. I'm not saying you have to agree with her, but at least answer the question of why judges are wrong here, where they're wrong... That's all we expect. If we're making proposals, it can't be that the bill's draft went to the lockers tonight, Mr. Senator, and that today we're proceeding that you came today, took it out of the box, read it, and you're coming to the debate. You know exactly what this should look like. We should sit down and have time to discuss it, to end this devastating conflict in Poland. I don't say who's right. I say that this is a conflict that destroys Poland, and the effects are what I quoted. And go on. About what you said about the senator... Mr Senator, I would like to say that I sign up for the fact that the good of Poland and Poles is the primary good of all of us, all of us living in Poland, but not only those living in Poland, but also those who have Poland in their heart. And if you have it in your heart and mind, show good will today, withdraw this project, Mr. Senator. Let us sit together and make such a bill, which you will of course decide, you will decide what will be the final form, but the point is that we have the opportunity to make amendments, to make all the arguments, to take into account the opinion of the Supreme Court and other factors. And you guys are doing this wrong... We have a project coming to us at night, and we're discussing it this morning, and we're about to adopt it. Mr. Senator, if your words were like this, fellas, reflect... That's what you said, Senator. And for the transmission to be correct... Back it up, set a good example. We'll sit down and try to write a good bill together. And that would be such a good example, Mr. Senator, as far as consent is concerned, showing that we want to solve this problem. And the last question I consulted with my colleague Janek here. Mr. Senator, I'm still against personalizing certain behaviors with an institution. It is not possible to say that the Constitutional Tribunal is evil because you do not like Professor Rzepliński. Well, that's not elegant. It's just not elegant at least. I would like to say what you have said, addressing Senator Rulewski: Janek, I don't think that's why you fought the Communists, so that you would now go hand in hand with them in the fight for the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask, is Senator Rulewski going hand in hand with Mr Piotrowicz? Is Senator Rulewski going hand in hand with former Deputy Minister Kryża? I haven't seen him around. Therefore, please, sir, please don't personalize in such an unelegant way, because we are talking about what concerns the entire bill, and whether anyone has ever had party connections, and today they are not, maybe they have gone astray... I'm far from putting a patch on him. That's why I took the liberty of telling the senator that you wouldn't need a senator's patch on Senator Rulevski that he's marching with the communists under his arm. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Something like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u62	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich. Come on in. [[Voice from the room: Janek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm very happy for you because I feel like I'm in the Roman Senate... Quo usque tandem abutere, Catilina, patientia nostra? That's what the great Romans said. Well, as I listen to Senator Elephant with his vocation... appealing to ethics and all that, I'm very grateful and I think that's what a political debate should be like. But there's something that just drives me mad. Mr. Senator, the Civic Platform I was a member of. And I'm still here, but then I was in the authorities, and she made a mistake in July 2015, indeed. With this error, she went to the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Tribunal, which theoretically in various opinions of colleagues in law and justice I'm not saying, God forbid, about you, Mr. Senator, he was political, he assessed it as unconstitutional, and those judges were dismissed. Then, in a constitutional manner, the next judges who were not sworn in by the President were appointed by the Sejm. And it started our fight for the Constitutional Tribunal. If we are indeed mature and long-standing in politics, then we must remember that it was at night that we met and discussed the Court, which was a very disgusting echo among the public. And now, taking for a good coin, that's all you're talking about, quoting these parts of the bill that we're going to be discussing... I say, wait a minute, but, Senator, ladies and gentlemen... I'm here to welcome the ombudsman who's been waiting since 10:00. He's known for a long time that he's supposed to start the meeting at 10:00. We didn't know he was coming in until yesterday about this third point. We were prepared for a serious debate on the report. And now if we really... I don't want to repeat the words of my colleague Blackobay anymore. What we got today is for people like me who aren't lawyers, actually impossible to do. Because we're running out of time. So if we're gonna respectfully appeal to the public that this is what we want to be together on matters that are so important... If you say judges are trustworthy and should be impeccable What's written in the Constitution? However, I ask that we all remember how their independence is grabbed. I need to remind you that I wouldn't want us to speak that language in the Senate. I can say that, for example, when I held a committee meeting, the deputy ombudsman was accused by a serious policy of the political nature of his opinion on one of the projects. And that's what we're protesting. Because if that is the case, we will start to question all the institutions of the state and the tools that the State is using. I'm just saying this for the good of all of us. I therefore conclude by thanking you for speaking a language that is acceptable to the public debate, and we are not offended. But remember, we're not people who can't judge our different behaviors. Thank you very much. And I hope this is over, and I can listen to the Ombudsman's report. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u64	I see it on the board. Yeah. Thank you very much. [[Me too.]] [[Senator Silence.]] Mr. Senator, are you still up for discussion? [[Yes.]] Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! My performance may not be upper-floor and emphatic. I will act here as a modest device in the field of law, as a practice in the application of this law, for more than 35 years, and as one who, from time to time, is a right, if he is elected to the Senate. Therefore, I will focus only on those regulations which should respect our belief that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is to be a virtuoso in the field of application of the law, and should also be a crystal person in terms of his qualities. Therefore, it is futile that the rules state that legal knowledge and qualifications needed to take up the position of Supreme Court judge should be distinguished in order to take up the position of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the latter, i.e. qualified to serve as Supreme Court Judge, is, I remind you, at least 10 years of practice, whether in the area of judging, whether it's lawyer or counsel. But it is not enough just this practice, but there must still be distinction between legal knowledge and real crystallity as regards the personal characteristics of such a judge. I therefore believe that these requirements, which are set out in the proposed law, are indeed requirements to ensure that, when a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is present, they are met. This also applies to requirements regarding behaviour during the performance of the function as well as post-retirement. Of course, the question remains. And that's what I'm gonna focus on. The concern that this law should not be affected by certain shortcomings that I see and which I now wish to present. Well, with all due respect for these requirements which we formulate here, I believe that the regulation in the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which concerns the fate of the profits for holding shares or shares in a commercial law company, namely that the judge is to transfer those profits to the public objectives of his choice by 31 March of the year following that in which he obtained them, is unfortunately defective. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a kind of expropriation, and in order to expropriate someone, there must be some particular reason for that. I think we'd all rebel if we adopted such a regulation, for example. with regard to senators. I believe that this is a certain disability that we should eliminate, because in my opinion it violates the article. 64 and Article 64 22 Constitutions on Respect for Property Rights. Further issues related to the duty of the judge to make a statement by the Constitutional Tribunal, and in particular the forms which are attached here as model statements, also raise some doubts, and I would like to share these doubts with you. This is the question of identifying the location of the house or the apartment owned by the judge. Ladies and gentlemen, this is kind of putting a judge in public danger. I remember that we, too, struggled to have senators, in general, all who are required to make such a statement, have the right to remain anonymous, to keep records of their place of residence for themselves. It is a matter of safety, our safety, our family safety, etc. I believe that this issue should be considered and amended so that it is possible to remain anonymous on this issue. The next issue is the consequence of failing to comply with the requirements imposed on the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, namely the submission of a declaration of property, also as regards the submission of a statement on the activities of the judge's spouse, also the question of what I mentioned at the beginning of this specific expropriation. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a regulation which states that non-compliance with these obligations is tantamount to resignation by the judge of the office. Question: Isn't this a regulation going too far? Each person is mistaken, sometimes he may forget something when he pursues and loses his daily life. I therefore believe that this should be preceded by an institution reminding the President of the Court of such an obligation. Only if within the prescribed time limit It is possible to introduce e.g. 2 weeks from the date of the President's reminder of the fulfilment of that obligation It will not be met, it may have consequences, even in the form of the loss of the mandate of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Finally, there is a certain inconsistency with the provisions governing the expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Court before the end of his term of office. Because if the result of failure to fulfil these obligations is the loss of the position of the judge of the Court, this is not reflected in the article. 18 which regulates, as it would seem, in an exhaustive manner, the expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Court. And the question is, who's to say? Because in the event of the death of a Judge, the President of the Court shall rule on this in its decision. In other cases, when he is walking, for example. the resignation, conviction or disciplinary action of a judge of his own motion is a reservation that the General Assembly of Judges shall determine this by a resolution. If we were to assume that the expiry would also take place if these statements were not made, the three I mentioned here would have to be regulated, who would have to say, whether the President of the Court or the General Assembly. Because the fact that there is an expiry by law is always a solution that raises doubts, because disputes can arise: well, and who is to say? Because formally, even when something is done by law, there is usually a specific judgment, e.g. in the case of the right of the individual farmers under the Act of 4 November 1971, the decision of a specific body is also necessary. Today it is a court, once it was an office which ruled that by law someone had acquired a certain authority. Other regulations also say that by law someone loses a certain authority, but always following such a decision must follow a declaratory ruling which states the existence of a certain effect by law. It's just so many comments, as I say, of a technical nature. Indeed, the law is very important and it is worth to make sure that it is formulated so that there are no doubts or even contradictions with the constitution at some points, as I pointed out in the case of the expropriation of judges from the right to collect benefits from actions. Especially since, ladies and gentlemen, we have What I would like to draw attention to Similar regulations in the Law on the Supreme Court, also in matters which concern this unfortunate wording of the article in my opinion. 7 that the judge of the Court is acting in accordance with the Code of Ethics of the Constitutional Tribunal adopted on the basis of separate provisions. We do not know by which rules, which means it is a reference to nowhere. And in the article. 34 of the Supreme Court Act is beautifully included: the judge is obliged to act in accordance with his judicial position and exercise judicial authority so as to avoid anything that might result in the dignity of the office or weaken the confidence associated with the performance of the Supreme Court Judge. I believe that we do not need to break open doors, but to draw from certain regulations that are in other laws and which are good. First of all, it's much easier. And, secondly, since it is already practice to apply these provisions from other laws, it is also much more convenient to apply these laws later in practice, without the risk of confusion. Whenever something is done again and for the first time, the risk of error or imperfection is greater than when some legal solutions are duplicated, which in practice functioned well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u66	Thank you very much. [[One word.]] But... [[I have the right.]] But you're welcome, Mr. Senator. [[Oh, no, 'cause I'm doing...]] I'm looking at you because I want to vote for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u67	Yes, yes, you've looked very closely, Mr. Marshal, thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Counselor, you don't have to state in the bill that you have to be honest, behave decently, ethically and morally. I mean, if there wasn't one. Let's call it colloquially. Smoke means we wouldn't be working on a bill like this at all. That's what I'm talking about. [[That was a very good speech.]] [[You have to call...]] I know. I know it's good, but we're talking about something else. [[It's like he touched the essence of all these problems.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Come on.]] Congratulations on... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I was talking about something else, and the performance as usual... [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u68	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for discussion. If you don't mind, I'd like to address Senators Czarnobaj and Augustine in just a minute. Gentlemen, it is not that, regardless of what is happening in Poland, investors do not react to it, markets do not react to it. No one is responsible to say it like that. But I would like to point out that many processes that affect us on a daily basis have a primary impact I repeat: first of all, completely different factors, global, unrelated to the government, whether yours or ours. E.g. War in Crimea, Brexit, Trump's choice. Notice how the markets reacted to this. We have now, for a year, been dealing with deflation in Poland and we can find a correlation in the impact on inflation levels or rather, as at present, deflation has oil prices, which translate into transport costs, and the one in the inflation basket represents 10%. Did the price of oil, which is now at the level of PLN 4,3 and not so long ago below PLN 4, depend on the government? Not from ours, not from yours. Following the lifting of the embargo on Iran and, as I say, Iran's release of oil production, prices fell dramatically. Did we wash the influence? No. [[Mr. Marshal, about the formal...]] How did this affect our economy? It's basic. And here I will remind you of the time when gas prices were well above 5 PLN. So in order to have a substantive, serious discussion here, it should be pointed out that we are primarily subject to factors that are much more serious and independent of us. Maybe some investor takes little account of what's going on here, but some examples of it. Mercedes' investment of 1 billion 200 million shows that it didn't bother Germany to invest with us, it doesn't bother Koreans, Samsung makes refrigerators here that sell even in Korea. So we're gonna end up with these diwags and this point, and we're gonna move on to the next point. For the record, Senator Ryszka and Senator Komarnicki have made their speeches in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Florek, Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Cichoń. Because there have been proposals of a legislative nature... [[Mr. Marshal, I am on a formal issue!]] ...I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. The discussion is closed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u69	Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue. I would like to ask, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, for a break between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. due to the meeting of the parliamentary and senate club which we will have during these hours. [[Okay, but...]] Between 5:00 and 6:00.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u70	Okay, I'm gonna pass this on to Marshal Karczewski and I'm gonna pass it on to the host. [[Thank you kindly.]] We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2015 and on the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. The text of the information is contained in print No 189. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of the information at its meeting on 5 July this year. I would like to welcome the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, present at the Senate meeting. Welcome. [[Applause]] I ask you to take the floor and present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u71	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank you very much for inviting me to the Senate meeting and for the opportunity to present the annual Ombudsman's information with a signal of the most important human rights issues in Poland in 2015. I would like to stress that it is extremely important for the Ombudsman to be accountable to both Chambers of Parliament, which is why I always try to participate in all meetings and meetings in the maximum possible composition. My substitute for equal treatment is with me, Mrs Sylwia Spurek, Director General, Ms Katarzyna Jakamowicz, and the directors of individual teams Dr Marek Łukaszuk, patron Anna Błaszczak-Banasiak, patron Mirosław Wróblewski and Mr Lesław Nawatki. Unfortunately, two deputies cannot be here with me, because one is in Wrocław, where we have the ceremony of giving a prize to a particularly well-deserved person in the field of the rights of people with disabilities, and in Chełma, in the other city, we are holding a meeting with the city president today about support or the creation of a support system for adults with disabilities, which, so to speak, do not have enough support from parents. I mean, my parents would want the city to get more involved in this. I would like to begin by thanking you for the good cooperation we have between the Office of the Ombudsman and the Senate, and in particular the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. This cooperation includes, among others, Joint organisation of conferences or open meetings, such as the so-called the day of the hotline, which took place here in the Senate, or the conference on the right to petition, which will take place in a few days, on 25 November. I think it is very important to stress that, thanks to such good cooperation between the Ombudsman's office and this committee, it is possible to undertake legislative work on the problems that the Ombudsman has indicated. Both by my predecessor and by me. I'd like to mention that one of these issues... Revision of the criminal code provisions concerning the so-called "criminal code" Cleaners of tenement houses were taken up as part of the work of the Senate committees and then became the substance of the applicable law. I would like to stress that several other topics were subsequently addressed, such as the draft law, which extends the scope of the Act on the nullity of judgments handed down against those who were repressed for their activities in favour of the independent existence of the Polish state. The point is to extend the bill on... to cover those persons for whom decisions on internment have been issued, for example, but have never been executed, and these persons, for example. They lost their jobs or they couldn't work at the university. This subject was taken up by the Senate and is already a Senate project, which is the subject of parliamentary work. Another topic concerned too low a guarantee for victims of accidents. This is a question of a dozen people who had traffic accidents in 1991 and 1992, and at that time the insurance sums guaranteed by the insurance guarantee fund were very low. There were also a number of topics that concerned pension rights. The Senate dealt with two petitions in which the Ombudsman presented his position. One concerned a legislative initiative leading to a change in the rules for determining the amount of the universal pension of persons born after 1948 who had previously retired and the other harmonised rules for calculating part of the pension for parental leave for persons born before and after 1 January 1949. Finally, the last topic I would like to talk about when it comes to good cooperation: the question of determining the right to funeral allowance for parents of children who were born dead and whose genders could not be determined. It was a subject that repeatedly appealed to the Ombudsman to do something about it. As a result of our speech to the committee mentioned above, the committee has taken up this subject. I hope that in the long term this will lead to the adoption of the relevant legislation, a law. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to stress that over 57 000 cases have been brought into the Ombudsman's office in 2015, 27 000 of which are new. 38,000 tips were given by telephone. During that period, the Ombudsman addressed 21 applications to the Constitutional Court and joined 12 constitutional complaints, 5 legal questions and 4 requests from other entities. In addition, we dealt with what is, you can say, the traditional action of the Ombudsman, i.e. directing the cassation to the Supreme Court There were 60 of them. With regard to legal questions concerning the codification of case law, we referred four questions to the Supreme Court. There were also six complaints to the provincial administrative court, and we have joined the court proceedings 12 times. Finally, I would like to stress what is, I think, the essence of the day-to-day work of the Ombudsman's office, i.e. directing general speeches to the various central offices. Such general speeches raising various subjects of individual rights and freedoms I'm gonna talk about a lot of them today. It was 286 in 2015. Finally, it is worth remembering that the Ombudsman's office acts as the National Prevention Mechanism and deals with torture and inhuman and degrading treatment. This is the mechanism resulting from Poland's ratification of an optional protocol to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Torture. This mechanism consists of regular visits to various places of imprisonment: prisons, arrests, police detention rooms, children's chambers, shelters for minors, youth care centres, social services houses, sobering rooms. Such preventive visits were 121 in 2015 and at a fairly similar level this activity was maintained in the next year, but I hope to be... Let me rephrase: I'm sure I'll be taking the case next year. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to stress that I took office on 9 September 2015, therefore the annual information which was presented to the Sejm and the Senate covers both my predecessor's period of office as well as the period when I was already an advocate of civil rights. It seems to me that such a key question, which always accompanies the next spokesperson, concerns how much the predecessor or predecessor continues to act. And I took the position that I should continue with what my predecessors had done, the actions they had taken. This applies, in particular, to cases which have taken place before the Constitutional Tribunal. Many of these cases have unfortunately not been identified until today, but some have been identified. A case which, I think, is quite important and which has become the subject of the Court's ruling after I started my term of office. Although it was brought by Professor Lipowicz, it concerned a tax-free amount. The Court found that the principle of protection of human dignity must be linked to the amount necessary to maintain and that a minimum tax threshold should be set accordingly. I would like to stress that, in addition to the function I was talking about, the function of the National Prevention Mechanism, the Ombudsman still has tasks arising from other international agreements, as well as from national law. These are, I would say, additional tasks that have been strictly defined in the laws adopted over the years. The Ombudsman's Office is among others. the equality body under the EU anti-discrimination directives and the relevant provisions of the Law on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union on equal treatment. And in this respect, we have some specific responsibilities in dealing with issues relating to the principle of equality and the principle of non-discrimination. The Ombudsman is also a monitoring body for the application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The Convention provides that each State should designate such a monitoring body. For me, it is fundamental to seek maximum cooperation with other institutions, national authorities, which are responsible for various aspects of infringements of the rights and freedoms of individuals and which can act within their respective competences. For example, I have established quite good cooperation with the spokesperson on the rights of the child. I have prepared several general speeches together with the Ombudsman, but we have also set up a special Expert Group on Children's Rights. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, This team has prepared many different ideas, which, you can say, have been largely accepted by the government for subsequent implementation. The Ombudsman also participates in the work of the System Analysis Team. This is the team that was set up at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, composed of spokesmen Not only the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, but also the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman. In a sense, through the cooperation of these institutions, Mr President wants to identify the problems that are, you can say, to be dealt with in the country, and which sometimes, I say, cannot break through individual resorts or where there is a lack of any particular sensitivity. It seems to me that it is quite important that, even yesterday, the President held a conference on the problem of parental abduction and the proper application of the provisions of the article. 211 criminal code. As regards the work of the Office itself 'Cause I'd like to say a little bit more about that. The Ombudsman's office is located in Warsaw. This is where most of the employees work. In addition, there are 3 field offices: Wroclaw, Katowice and Gdańsk. In addition, there are several points of admission of interested parties, acting in such a way that once a month the Ombudsman's office employees accept complaints and requests which are addressed to the Ombudsman and concern the rights and freedoms of the individual. Let me put it this way: despite some budgetary problems, this network has been developed. These reception points are located in Lublin, Kielce, Czestochowa, Szczecin, Słupsk. That's it for now. [[No, not yet in Bydgoszcz.]] Still in Bydgoszcz, yes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would also like to add that, as part of my function, I am trying to organise the so-called. Regional meetings, which consist in organizing a series of meetings with activists, NGOs, activists and residents in individual voivodships. They are for consultation on the problems that the Ombudsman should address. In 2015, such a first meeting took place in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. The expert committees also provide a great deal of assistance to the Ombudsman's office. 3 expert committees were in place by 2015: older people, people with disabilities, migrants. In 2015, I was able to establish The Expert Group on The letters I was talking about and the Committee of Experts on Against Homelessness. Dear Senators, I would like to stress that the Ombudsman's annual report is an extremely comprehensive document. It's not because we wanted to write everything in this report. But the office's operations are really wide. There are various problems with which people, citizens, turn to the office of spokesperson. And that is why in this information I would like to focus more on pointing out various such key issues, the various key issues that turn into the Ombudsman's activities, which, you can say, are most entertaining or problematic. I would like to start with a broadly understood sphere of civil law, where there are quite a lot of problems. It is about problems related to unclear, sometimes quite non-functional cooperative law. These are problems concerning the consequences of energy investments. Very often, the Ombudsman is approached by people who are injured by the location of the energy line or even by an already built energy line. Many complaints concern the rights of tenants, the lack of guarantee of a constitutional right to housing, long queues in some large cities for social housing and, as a consequence, problems related to the homeless of citizens. Many speeches by the Ombudsman And my predecessors, but also mine, are concerned with the lack of regulation of reprivatisation, because the lack of regulation of this problem can be problematic from the point of view of the right to respect for property, as well as from the point of view of the rights of the victims of reprivatisation, those who are not sufficiently protected in such situations. I would also like to point out that many have complained about the proximity between wind power stations and residential buildings. I am pleased that this issue has been taken up by Parliament and regulated. I would like to point out that one of my main objectives with regard to the entire term of office In the Senate forum, I've already talked about this. It is important to address the various problems of homelessness. I hope that thanks to this comprehensive effort we will be able to reduce the number of homeless people in Poland. We are doing a lot of things about this. It seems to me that what is particularly problematic is the lack of coordination at government level in the fight against homelessness. I believe that this is a subject that goes beyond the sphere of interest only and only the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration should participate here. The lack of this coordination makes it possible that my actions in some sense may suggest in which direction to go. I am pleased that some initiatives gain acceptance by responding to general speeches. An example here is the recent project submitted by the Ministry of Infrastructure concerning eviction to the so-called. the temporary space. This problem was also the subject of one of the petitions examined by the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and the Petitions. As far as the broader sphere of civil law is concerned, there are a lot of problems that arise, I would say, about the conflicts surrounding divorce proceedings. Contacts with children, the question of applying the Hague Convention to child abduction, the functioning of foreign authorities, which sometimes become of greater public interest, child protection bodies in Germany, Norway or Sweden. These things go to the spokesperson's office, too. We are trying to take some action within the limits of my competence. As far as criminal law is concerned, I would like to point out that a large number of complaints, applications, including requests for annulment, are not about the best actions of the courts, not about the best actions of the prosecution, the chronicity of proceedings, the fact that we still do not have a properly regulated issue of the functioning of judicial experts who often contribute to the chronicity of proceedings in Poland. What is particularly evident in many cases which have been the subject of intervention and individual Ombudsman's actions is respect in the course of court proceedings. the rights of persons affected by intellectual and mental disabilities. We try to look at these matters with special attention. We have been able to meet virtually all persons with intellectual and mental disabilities, who are in detentions and prisons individually. We are undertaking systemic actions, as well as individual actions concerning those who we have considered to have been mistaken in the functioning of the justice system, since they are there. As far as the criminal legal sphere is concerned, one of the topics that we have taken up and I would like to say, because it concerns the activities of certain senators, concerns the right to appeal in criminal matters. This may be a specific subject, but I would like to point out what barriers the Ombudsman sometimes encounters. I remember, at the beginning of my term of office, I received a petition signed by several senators indicating that a lawyer could not prepare to appeal if the court appointed him this legal term and the reasons for the judgment were 700 or 1000 pages. Rarely, because rarely, but such things happen in Poland. Sometimes justifications are also deposited in a secret law firm and only there can a lawyer face it. I agree with this argument, I believe that it cannot be so that the violation of the right of defence and the right of appeal is that there is not enough time to prepare such an appeal. I made a proper speech to the Minister of Justice, and then I got the answer that the Ministry of Justice didn't see the problem. I am talking about this here, in this forum, to point out that sometimes my positive response to recommendations or senators' conclusions is not later met with a sufficiently serious, I would say, treated by the Ministry of Justice. But I'm not putting up a gun, and I'm gonna keep going on about it. Furthermore, the Supreme Bar Council is of the opinion that a provision should actually be made which allows for an extension of time limits in certain exceptional, absolutely exceptional situations. Of course, it is not possible to create a standard from this, but it would have to be possible to intervene and appeal properly prepared. I would like to point out that, as far as administrative and economic law is concerned in the Ombudsman's office, many of the topics that are being addressed concern health protection: queues, shortage of medical staff, the issue of mental health protection and, I would say, insufficient support for environmental care. The problem is that we do not have the so-called implemented so-called in Poland. deinstitutionalisation policy, that is, one can say, such broad support for those who should be supported in their place of residence, and not necessarily locked in psychiatric hospitals or social services. A lot of problems concern business rights. What we pay particular attention to is the issue of double criminality, namely the application on the one hand of administrative sanctions, on the other hand criminal sanctions against entrepreneurs, but also tax issues that affect both entrepreneurs and individuals, even if the principle in dubio pro tributario adopted by the previous parliament is of particular interest to us. A lot of the problems that arise in the Ombudsman's office relate to different aspects of the right to privacy, and these are still unsolved, unfortunately. Moreover, I would say that these are problems that have been aggravated in recent months. In Poland, we still have not the best quality of control over special services, especially in the field of billing, IT data, wiretapping and operational control. In principle, we do not have a typical independent control body for special services in such countries as Norway, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. I don't mean the Sejm committee, but I mean independent of parliamentary structures or government structures, the authority to supervise special services. The issue of the use of video surveillance is still not regulated in Poland. And here another, you can say, the Ombudsman's request to do something about it and adopt a comprehensive law, meets with silence and such work is not carried out. Many topics that are being addressed concern, I would say, the sphere of political rights, i.e. rights such as electoral rights, freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of association. It seems to me that it is worth noting that in 2015 a new convention law was adopted and, in principle, I would say that these problems do not occur, i.e. if I were to recall some specific issues from the end of 2015, I do not recall. And I think it's worth remembering. Many complaints concern, for example, the procedures for the functioning of courts, the quality of the functioning of courts in relation to the registration of associations. And this may not be due to the flaws of the association law itself or the foundation law, but to some, I would say, administrative problems or over-intelligence as regards the examination of the statutes presented by the organizations. A lot of people are complaining about it. We have a number of issues to deal with in the broad sense of electoral law. In Poland, at least the issue of national institutions of election observers has not been addressed. There is still no initiative to create an opportunity to take part in voting for people who are incapacitated. I would like to stress that our regulation, that is, art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The 2nd constitution, which deprives all persons of their right to participate in elections, is not in line with human rights standards. Poland has been repeatedly admonished in this area on the international stage. This may be the following: either an institution of incapacity will be abolished, replaced by a system of support for persons with intellectual and mental disabilities in the decision-making process In other words, it will be created, as you can say, a certain corset of regulations adapted to the type of intellectual disability The Constitution will either be amended and the provision of the Article will be amended. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2. This is also one of the topics constantly addressed by the Ombudsman in different contexts; I am referring to the issue of incapacity. A great deal of issues raised by the Bureau are the issue of the treatment of deprived persons It's about all kinds of deprivation of liberty. With the issue of social assistance homes and the inclusion of persons with disabilities, the issue of treatment of inmates, prisoners, persons arrested. I'd say we've been paying a lot of attention to juvenile proceedings lately. I would like to point out some of the most important points. First of all, as a result of the complex... This is related to 2016. In November 2015, I submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court for the inclusion in the homes of social assistance of persons with disabilities. The problem concerns about 15 000 people in the country who are in such a situation. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 28 June 2016 that the inclusion of such persons in the DPS is incompatible with the Constitution that each time a decision of the court should be made. Putting people who can't make decisions about themselves in a place they can't get out of on their own... guaranteeing their safety should be a matter for the court to decide. Work is now being done to amend the relevant laws in this area. We have also carried out research on the "B" was carried out in 2015. On the operation of juvenile correction facilities and shelters. The result of this research is a whole range of cases. I would like to point out one which is still not settled in Poland. In my opinion, the shame for the Polish state is that this problem has not been solved. According to the regulations of a girl who has a baby at a juvenile shelter, you should pick up the baby. In order to keep the child in front of the mother and not pass it somewhere for care or adoption, it requires really equilibrical structures and very good will from the administration and youth shelters. This is a very specific problem which, despite various general speeches, has not been legally fixed until today. Only in some places in Poland, thanks to the fact that the heads of shelters for minors in some sense encourage their employees to take on the responsibility of taking care of newly born children, these children may remain in shelters for minors. As I mentioned earlier, we also have a number of problems concerning health protection, including mental health, in places of imprisonment, but I would also like to point out that, because it has been of particular interest to the public. It is about situations where a person is not convicted because the person concerned is considered insane at the time of the act, and the court terminates its proceedings and makes provision for protective measures. In such a situation, such a person may go to a psychiatric hospital. There were two such cases in the media, Mr. F. and Mr. K. I may no longer give the names of those who have spent 9 or 10 years in psychiatric hospitals, precisely as a result of such unreflective application of the regulations and later insufficient console from the courts over their stay in these psychiatric hospitals, this too, you can say, unreflective extension of this stay. These are very important matters, because they were de facto an example of how the Ombudsman uses his cassation powers. And those cases wouldn't have been so loud if there hadn't been the Supreme Court judgments that were filed by the Ombudsman. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! A lot of the problems that go to the Ombudsman's office concern the pension system, social support, various labour law problems. I was talking about these two petitions that the Senate has made and which we have supported. I won't say it again. But let me say that we see very positive changes in the approach to civil law agreements. This is also a qualitative change at the level, I would say, of correspondence and of legislative changes. We also see that public procurement laws have been amended, which make it possible to apply the so-called rules to a greater extent. social clauses and thus countering certain pathologies related to the fact that in public administration offices someone can win a public contract and then employ subcontractors on the basis of civil law contracts. It may be desirable to increase the powers of the State Labour Inspection. And it can be hoped that in the longer term, this will lead to a more effective state inspection of the enforcement of workers' rights. But there are still a few issues that have not been settled, and several issues are of interest and the Ombudsman's actions. First of all, it is about the lack of regulation of the status of the whistleblower. This is where the Ministry of Justice has recently taken action. This is about a person who reports irregularities in the operation of an institution and acts in the public interest, and then from the circuit of the fact that he has become this signaler, he has different consequences. There is also the question of the threshold of the Alimentation Fund. This threshold is now set at such a low level that many women whose partners... Because it's mostly women's problem. Many such women do not have the opportunity and there is no chance of taking advantage of the support offered by the Alimentation Fund, because their earnings, their income exceed this very low threshold of the Alimentation Fund. There's also a question... And it seems to me that it is particularly important to speak about this, because just a few days ago it has been two years since the Constitutional Tribunal passed a judgment on the guardians of persons with disabilities. It's been two years, and the sentence hasn't been executed. And now, depending on the age of the child's disability, these carers benefit either from full care or from care benefits, and the difference between these amounts is really huge and this represents a significant difference in the daily income and functioning of such families. And I think it's worth remembering. I would like to stress that the Ombudsman generally welcomes the 500+ programme, but we do see some minor elements that we will want to present when reflection or analysis of the functioning of the programme is carried out, i.e. after a year. For example, there is a question of availability of 500+ for children from a child's home. I am aware that children from a child's home are largely maintained by the state, but, I understand that the idea of 500+ is to increase some educational opportunities, educational opportunities, and, at least in this respect, it would be worthwhile to improve the rules on 500+ gently. Dear Senators, I would like to point out that many of the topics that are being addressed by the Ombudsman's office concern national and ethnic minorities, migrants, people with disabilities, women's rights, and the rights of other groups who are vulnerable to unequal treatment. I would like to point out that there are a number of problems concerning national and ethnic minorities, which are pointed out to the Ombudsman. This is, for example, the problem of the Roma population in the Małopolska Voivodeship. Here, the Ombudsman is constantly working with all the authorities responsible for this. These are the problems of Roma migrants from Bulgaria and Romania, who live in Koczowice in Poznań and in Gdańsk. It is also a question of supporting such integration for migrants who already live in Poland. But that's also And that's what I'd like to pay particular attention to. The question of the use, unfortunately, of violence and of a language which does not meet the criteria laid down in criminal law, i.e. the standards of Article. 256 and 257 criminal code. Unfortunately, it appears and even at the level of statistics it can be seen that this problem is increasing. On every such signal I try to respond as a spokesman in accordance with my mandate. When it comes to people with disabilities, we have a whole range of problems. My predecessor presented her report to the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is a thick report on several hundred pages, which presents various problems concerning professional activation, recognition or different types of case law on the degree of disability, that is the question of participation in political and social life, architectural barriers. These are all kinds of things and topics. We try to respond to each of them and take different actions. And we also try to point out that often the problems of people with disabilities are the same as the problems of older people, that these problems often penetrate and that each of us at some point will be an older person, and that we will have to pay more attention, unfortunately, to problems connected with architectural barriers. I would like to point out that in Poland it would be very important to adopt and ratify the Additional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is an international agreement that provides for the possibility of complaining to a special body that deals with such matters. So, for example, if ATMs were not adapted to the needs of people with vision disabilities, these would be situations that could be subject to the jurisdiction of such a committee. Many NGOs support the Ombudsman's request in this regard. There are also many problems with the broad understanding of women's rights. These are domestic violence problems, insufficient rapid response from the police and the prosecution to such situations, no centres. support for victims of violence and in particular insufficient intervention centres and insufficient practices on the isolation of perpetrators from victims of violence. But these are also issues concerning, for example, perinatal anaesthesias. Please, honourable senators, I would like to point out that in Poland, depending on where we live, we may be entitled to perinatal anaesthesia or not. For example, according to statistics in Lubuskie Voivodship, perinatal anaesthesia is used in 1% cases, while in the Mazowieckie voivodship In 25% of cases. And here, depending on the voivodship, these statistics look more or less like this. Women's rights organisations and, you can say, worthy of birth treatment particularly indicate this. I would also like to point out that in Poland we have problems with the application of the Act on the admissibility of abortion conditions. I would like to point out that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 7 October 2015 which concluded that the clause of conscience includes not only the doctor himself, but also the fact that the doctor does not need to indicate another doctor who would be ready to perform the procedure is a judgment which caused certain, I would say, confusion as regards the effectiveness of the law. The Court stated in its statement that, in such a situation, the order should be made by a superior in relation to a physician, but did not specify who that superior should be, which gives rise to certain doubts as to the application of the law. And finally, there are many problems with which they address a non-heteronormative person's spokesperson. These are problems concerning the situation in health care facilities. It is also a question of not being able to obtain a certificate for the purpose of entering into a partnership outside the country. I would like to stress here that not in the territory of the country, but outside the borders of the country, if such a person gets involved with someone who is not a citizen of the Republic of Poland. I would also like to point out that the Ombudsman is preparing various reports, undertaking studies on different issues of equal treatment. It is an obligation arising from the law, according to it the Ombudsman is to deal not only with individual matters, but also to undertake such research. Three reports were prepared in 2015. They concerned, firstly, the availability of lessons of minority religion and ethics; secondly, the availability of academic education for people with disabilities; the third report concerned the question of reconciling family and professional roles, equal treatment of parents in the labour market. Each of these reports is then analysed, discussed, seminars are organised in the Ombudsman's office and sent to the relevant ministries and other institutions. For example, the report on academic education for people with disabilities was very well received by the academic community, by the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, by individual rectors. They were grateful for the fact that such, I would say a comprehensive presentation of the issues indicated how to fix the situation in particular places or at individual universities. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! To conclude, I would like to point out that the constitution contains a rich catalogue of individual rights and freedoms. The role of bodies such as the ombudsman is to draw lessons from this and act for citizens. The Ombudsman should see problems, look for solutions, think about how to help. There are still many unresolved problems in Poland and the ones I signalled are certainly not all, and the length of this report shows how much more to do in Poland. This is the subject of my concern and interest, of contacts with non-governmental organisations, of regional meetings, of contacts with parliamentarians, of all institutions at the heart of the protection of individual rights and freedoms. I would like to stress that the Constitutional Tribunal is a key body for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual on the basis of our constitution. It proves this in its case law, also this year. It is worth mentioning, for example, this judgment, which I mentioned, concerning the placement of persons incapacitated in the DPS, or the judgment concerning the removal of a driving licence for speeding above 50 km/h, in which the Court quite curiously weighed that a driving licence cannot be accepted if the driver submits that he acted in a higher state of necessity, i.e. He was driving his future mom to the hospital, and it was just necessary for him to drive a little faster at the moment. The Ombudsman's annual information shows how important the role of the Court is and why the independence of the Court and its effectiveness are essential for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual. I would also like to stress that I am grateful for the positive cooperation of other spokespersons: the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, the spokesperson of the patient, the financial spokesman, and public administrations, as well as non-governmental organisations. I believe that lasting change in Poland can only be achieved through cooperation, searching for common points, an attitude towards identifying them and solving specific problems for citizens. However, I believe that many problems cannot be solved without the intervention of the legislator. Sometimes good will, good practices and the desire to resolve certain problems stop at some point and the legislative intervention is necessary. And I am pleased that, thanks to the work of the Senate Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions, such intervention can sometimes be counted on. Although I am aware that the role of the Senate Committee is more an intervention role to address specific problems, it is not a role that will seek to solve big, systemic problems. Well, because only the government can be responsible for that. In my opinion, it is also important to actively benefit from the standards resulting from international agreements ratified by Poland. International agreements, such as the International Covenant on Personal and Political Rights, such as the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, are not only one of many international agreements, but these are agreements that were ratified in Poland as early as 1977. These are agreements which were the basis for the opposition's demand for democratic freedom and respect for human rights in the 1980s. And all the more so should we pay attention to what these international legal obligations entail for human rights and for us. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer questions. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, now the senators can ask the Minister questions. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? I know you do. Your first question is Senator Sławomir Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you for your extensive and comprehensive information on the Ombudsman's activities in 2015. In particular, I would like to thank and commend the Ombudsman for his involvement in defending the Constitutional Tribunal. You merely mentioned the role of the Constitutional Tribunal in the democratic system of Poland and any other democratic state. I'd like to ask you, in the context of the right to good legislation... And you could personally see the quality of the legislation by listening to the debate on the statute on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As you see this law and all the previous laws which, in the last period, starting on 25 June 2015, i.e. from the first law to which the Ombudsman has joined, in support of the motion of the Members of the Law and Justice... How do you assess the whole of those provisions that have already entered into force and those that are to enter into force, given today's debate, as regards the protection of individual rights and freedoms, now and for the future? And the second question, if I still have time. I would like to ask you about the impact of the reduction in the Ombudsman's budget. This budget, in view of the growing challenges and tasks, should grow, and unfortunately, The votes of the senators, too. It's been reduced. What effect does this have, and how does this affect the performance of the Ombudsman's tasks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. Wait a minute, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has provided information on the Ombudsman's activities for 2015, so I would ask that the questions also concern this period. I'm gonna ask you some more questions. First, Senator Jan Rulewski... Maybe this is how we do it. Then Senator Dobrzyński, and then there will be answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u75	Okay, thank you. Mr. Ombudsman, the question concerns the assessment of your office as the initiator of the Constitutional Court's meeting on the verification of tax thresholds... I expect your evaluation in connection with yesterday or the day before yesterday's law adopted by the Sejm, which is in fact an escape from this implementation. And yet the Constitution states that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are final. And trying to sell them out for more time is an escape. Second question. Poland was visited by a delegation, probably from the Council of Europe, and also by the Council of Europe. It assessed the independence of the Ombudsman, as Senator Rybicki said, from the point of view of financing his activities. Do you think that the resources that are being spent... Well, they're being taken away from the spokesperson, which limits your power. In terms of such a reduction in resources, do you see the possibility of fulfilling statutory obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has not allowed three judges to rule for 11 months. According to my estimates, one judge costs us about 120 and 150 thousand. Let's count his salary, hotel or apartment, car, office... [[More.]] It's possible more than that. I counted ok. 150,000. [[He doesn't have to take a salary.]] [[Quiet, please.]] It's funded by our taxes, mine too. I have a question for you. Actually, I'm filing a complaint. I believe that Mr Rzepliński, the President of the Court, is exposing himself to the charge of mismanagement, and this is criminal. When you perform... [[That's what the D.A.'s office is for.]] ...in defense of my financial interests? [[It's not a mismanagement.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Because some of my taxes are affecting your office, too. And case number two. Minister, I'm not sure you have the authority to evaluate the 500+ programme. [[Everybody does.]] You have just given your opinion here, and I do not know exactly what your role is in this matter. [[Who's gonna give him an opinion?]] As far as children's homes are concerned, it seems to me that the role of you as well as our country, i.e. a suitable ministry is to lead to a situation in which adoption will be fashionable. This would be a real solution to the problem, and as far as children's homes are concerned, in Bialystok, it costs about 7,000 to keep one child. [[That's not a question for the spokesperson.]] I think it would be wiser to do so in favour of adoption. I don't see the need for 500+ to function in children's homes. I don't know where you got it or what philosophy you have. I'd like to ask you two more questions, but I'll ask them later. [[Yeah, that's in the second...]] Would you like to include me there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u78	Okay, I'll put you on speaker. Now I ask the Minister to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u79	Thank you very much. The first question... Maybe I'll answer it together. As far as the issue of reducing the Ombudsman's budget is concerned, I feel a little embarrassed by the need to speak on the subject, as work is now underway on the budget for next year. If they end positively The work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights 2 weeks ago indicated this. Perhaps some of these problems will be solved. As far as the budget for the year is concerned, which is now over, it is indeed it has been reduced to 2011 levels, which has mainly resulted in the fact that we still have a problem with the effective performance of the functions of the National Mechanism for Prevention and Prevention of Torture and the inhuman and degrading treatment, because the budget I requested included the employment of four additional people in this team. It seems to me that it is also very important to exercise the powers of spokespersons in the area of the lodging of cassation in criminal matters. It is worth remembering that the Ombudsman is, in fact, one of the two bodies capable of bringing an action against cases that have not ended with a sentence of imprisonment. The second body is the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. And these requests for the Ombudsman to file a cassation are about $3,000 a year. It's a lot of things. We need to review these conclusions, download files, make decisions. It's often said no, but often it's also positive. And then prepare these cancellations. I hope that if we receive these funds, it will be possible. I also hope that if we receive additional funds for this National Prevention Mechanism, we will also be able to focus more on, I would say, developing the competences of the National Prevention Mechanism in those areas that have not been of interest so far, because there was doubt whether the Ombudsman could do so at all. What do I mean? I'm talking about the so-called. private nursing homes, private accommodations, private places that are created, you can say, in the free market only and only on the basis of the permit of the voivode and where serious abuses occur. The cases from Trzciana, Zgierza, Wolicy show us what situation we are in if we are not doing this. If there is a budget of what I have requested for next year, I would like most of these observations that we are conducting to be focused on these centres. In principle, this function should be taken on by the state and the voivode through their apparatus, but I am aware that the rules are imperfect and that the voivode often does not have enough apparatus to do so. And I would like not to find myself in the situation that the Ombudsman has not taken any other action in this regard. And I think... Why am I so clear about this? Because it is often overlooked that this preventive work is just so that there will be no such situation later, so that someone can look at their hands. Since we've done surveillance at social services homes in the last year and visited a lot of DPSs, we've found that they're both where good practices are used, and these DPSs work well, as well as those that unfortunately require repair and need better treatment of the people who stay there. I would still like to point out that the Ombudsman was one of the few institutions that did not receive an increase in salaries for office staff. And that has an effect. This may not have direct effect, but there is some frustration and the question of why the staff of the Ombudsman's office, dealing with so many important matters for society, are discriminated against when it comes to the level of remuneration compared to other central administration offices and other constitutional bodies... It seems to me that this is a serious problem, which also affects the leaving of employees from the Ombudsman's office. I would also like to improve the network of admission points for stakeholders. They really work. A dozen, 20, 25 people with specific problems come for each such on-call, which is once a month. People are able to tell what the spokesperson is for, and what they are for. points of free legal assistance, for which there are reception points, which are arranged by parliamentarians. And I would like such points to arise soon in Łódź and in Bialystok, I think they are most needed there now. As regards the Constitutional Tribunal, I would like to emphasise, and I will refer here to the debate that was taking place here, while I was waiting for my speech, that I have the impression that I am one of the few people in the country who paid attention to the problem in June. And I have proof of that in the form of the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, then I was not a spokesperson for civil rights, I worked at the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights That saw a problem with the appointment of 2 additional judges. I'm talking about pointing out that these are not my bare arguments, but that I believe that the appointment of two judges was unnecessary, was against the constitution, and this was the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation. However, the appointment of the three remaining judges was absolutely in line with the Constitution, as the Constitutional Tribunal confirmed at the beginning of December by its judgment of 3 December 2015. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal itself is concerned, I believe that the Court must be an independent body, with independent judges in order to act as guarantor of the rights and freedoms of the individual and constitutional principles. And these guarantees of independence and independence are obtained through a certain institution's sustainability and also by accepting that judges are elected at different moments of history, that these compositions of the Court are different, and that, above all, they care about the high quality of the judges appointed. And I think that... that's why, among other things. I am involved in this dispute concerning the Constitutional Court that I believe that it is an organ necessary for the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms. Anyway, those things I was talking about showed me how important this is. For example, on June 28th, about people who were incapacitated in social services homes. But there are also issues that often concern the issues at hand, the functioning of the apparatus of power and the rights and freedoms of the individual can be said. In such situations, the Court must have these guarantees of independence in order to sometimes oppose legislation, sometimes catch legislative errors, sometimes correct the legal system. And for this system to work, then these judgments must be published and executed. And here was the great role of the Senate in recent years. It seems to me that many of your senators have been involved in this. In order to create such an effective system of enforcement of judgments, i.e. the drafting of laws which carried out judgments which, as a rule, patched holes in this legal wall, slightly damaged by the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. And those holes required filling. If I'm thinking about it, like. The Court will recognise the issue of a surveillance law that deeply interferes with the rights and freedoms of the individual or whether it will be possible to challenge I'm already answering one of the questions here. The Income Tax Act after its amendment, which will in fact extend this tax exemption threshold for the following years... And we will consider that the Court, perhaps, will not be fully independent in ruling... That's where the citizens will end up. It is citizens who will not have an instrument which independently verify the protection of their individual's rights and freedoms, their right to privacy, their right to respect for property or, for example, their right to protect land. One of the cases pending trial before the Court concerns the Law on the Trafficking of the Land. It is extremely controversial and is the subject of a number of complaints addressed to the Ombudsman's office already in 2016. As regards the question about the delegation of the International Ombudsman Institute, it was a delegation of an international organisation which brings together national institutions for human rights, i.e. the institution of the Ombudsman from Poland. The delegation indicated that from the point of view of international standards, so-called. the standards and principles of Paris, the independence of the Ombudsman is very important, which also includes independent financing of activities, because through funding it can, unfortunately, lead to a reduction of this independence. I would like to stress that, throughout the international community, the Ombudsman's office is highly rated. And it's not about me, it's about all the other spokesmen who built this status and prestige of the office, starting with Professor Łętowska, professors of Zieliński, Professor Zoll, Dr Janusz Kochanowski and Professor Irena Lipowicz. This is a certain achievement of almost 30 years in terms of democratic standards. Accomplishment promoted in other countries In the Czech Republic, Georgia, Ukraine. And from this point of view, it is also very important for international organisations to, you can say, see the Ombudsman's office, that it is a truly independent office and an office, which is even model for Central and Eastern Europe. As for Senator Dobrzyński's questions... I would like to point out that, with regard to issues relating to public spending and mismanagement, here, I think it is more appropriate to ask the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, because he can carry out an audit in this respect. But I think President Rzepliński is right not to allow these three people to serve as judges. If I said something else, it would contradict everything I did with regard to the independence and status of the Constitutional Tribunal. I absolutely agree with that. And in a perfect world, it would be like this. That we should bring the children's homes to an end. That should actually be... And I know that the Ombudsman is taking a whole range of actions to eliminate the homes of the child, i.e. those institutionalized forms of care. I know that a family home or adoption is what we should strive for. However, however we look at it, we have a situation that these children's homes are still functioning. And now the question is why these kids can't have any minimum support. I'm not even talking about the whole 500+, I'm talking about support at about 100 or 200 zlotys. The point is that they can take extra English courses, extra gymnastics, judo or any other class. And it's not that I invented this problem, but when I drive around Poland and meet with different people, residents, activists who come to meetings, they point to something to do with it, because they feel that their children are worse, and they ask why they don't have support. This particular problem was reported to me when I was at a meeting in Lubuskie voivodship, in the East, and from this perspective I refer to it. And if I'm competent... Of course, I do not have economic competence to assess the entire 500+ programme, but I would like to point out one thing, perhaps a little short notice. In particular, please note that, for example, the activities of loan companies, momentary lending companies, have been dramatically reduced, precisely because of the 500+, because the typical customers of these companies have started to benefit from the program and therefore can emerge from the wave of debt. We have reports... There's an organization called the European Association Poverty Network, which studies the scale of poverty. It concludes that 500+ has led to an increase in these indicators. And it cannot be pretended that the issue of poverty has no consequences as regards the use of social rights or the various problems that arise in the social sphere. I would also like to point out that in a recent report prepared by the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights This is a report adopted in relation to Poland at the beginning of October this year. This issue has also been noted as a positive step in enhancing the protection of social rights. Oh, I can even read it. The Committee notes with concern that the number of such facilities, especially for children up to the age of 3, remains insufficient. And let me put it this way: in the UN language the use of words is welcomed and something is noted is a good sign. And from this, I think, you should enjoy it. However, the problem that has been highlighted is that there are unfortunately still too few crèches in Poland. [[I didn't get the answer, Minister.]] [[In writing...]] [[Do you have anything else to add about the question of Senator Jan Dobrzyński?]] But questions about Professor Rzepliński or...?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u80	Minister, one thing is unacceptable... But President Rzepliński is also the head of the unit he manages... [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yes.]] ...so he signs payrolls, signs invoices that definitely come in there. And my point is that you, as the spokesperson of my rights, guarantee that they will not be stolen or wasted money. 'Cause if he doesn't, he won't pay. What are you going to do about it? I specifically complain to you about this activity. Because I don't care if you're so judgmental that it's good or not, I'm just interested in why he's paying if he won't allow it. What are they doing with that money? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: I think it would be...]] Minister, it's not like it seems to me. I'd like you to take concrete action... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[It's somewhere else...]] ...and so that I can receive in writing the information that you have taken to defend my money. Well, yes, in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u81	Mr. Senator, I understand... [[That's not a question for the spokesperson.]] [[Who are you talking to?]] Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u82	Okay, I'll answer. In my opinion, taking action on the effectiveness of public spending does not fall within the remit of the Ombudsman. [[Where?]] Other authorities of the state. I can put that in writing. [[Please direct it further, in defence of my rights.]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u83	Quiet, please. I understand that the Minister will answer this question in writing. Good. [[Well, he won't defend my rights. So what's the answer?]] Thank you very much. And you ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, in 2015 more than 57 000 cases were brought into the office. I have a question: how many of the cases that you have decided to take were conducted personally? Did you conduct your own investigation? How many cases? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: It is insanely difficult to answer this question because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u85	Minister... [[The Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Oh, sorry, we have to collect... Okay, I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry.]] I give the floor. The senator has already finished asking questions. Please ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Two questions. First: how do you assess the level of protection of the rights of national and ethnic minorities? I do not mean foreigners, immigrants or the material situation of the Roma minority, some of its representatives. It is generally about the level of protection of minority rights. And the second question about it... two sentences of explanation. In July of this year, the Council of Ministers issued a regulation in which it enlarged the area of the city of Opole with areas of several neighbouring municipalities, several villages. In these villages they lived, there are representatives of the German minority. They turned to the German government for help, they just wanted to reverse the expansion of Opole. And the question is, how do you feel about talking to an outside government... But unfortunately, I say 'unfortunately' from my point of view You are also involved in this procedure, I do not know by whom inspired, probably also by the German minority. In this, as I say, artificially triggered national conflict, because it has no real national basis, these are simply changes in administrative boundaries, you have been introduced. Tell me whose inspiration was your involvement in this conflict. How did it end? I'm talking about your involvement in this conflict. And should you really question the Council of Ministers' regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u87	And Senator Jan Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm just gonna wait a minute, 'cause you're gonna have to write down the previous question. I'm sitting right here. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Excuse me.]] No, no, relax, I've got time. Mr. Spokesman, by the way, But that's an important margin. It is a great request that you do not use the term "surveillance law" because there is no such law. This is the language of propaganda of one of the sides of the political conflict. You not only have no obligation as an Ombudsman, but on the contrary, you have no right to interfere in the same political conflict, and therefore a polite request that you do not reveal your preferences. It makes contact difficult, not easier. But now to the point. The first point, namely again, unlike the senators of the Civic Platform, I was not so pleased with your submission, because I believe that you, among other things. should, in a sense, present the Ombudsman's Office's sensitivity to very specific issues which involve either suspicion or the fact that specific civil rights of very specific people were violated in 2015. And I would like to set an example in asking you to respond to him. The first case of 2014, but completed in 2015, on 30 April the prosecution dismissed the investigation of Prof. Bogdan Chazan. Didn't the Ombudsman realise that it was a good impulse to consider whether in this case the authorities of the city of Warsaw violated the law, violating his rights and civil liberties, including the conscience clause you mentioned, and didn't start a case to protect Professor Bogdan Chazan's welfare? What actions have been taken? I couldn't find it in my speech or in this extensive report, perhaps it is, but I couldn't find it, hence asking you to share this sensitivity with us. The second point, the question concerning the Independence March. Didn't sensitivity make you reflect on how the March of Independence ended in 2014 by 276 detentions, about 54 people being brought in court cases, 23 people were convicted, and in November the same march ended clearly peacefully, no cases were initiated. It is assumed that it was not a party called hooligan, but rather a party of state services that acted as hooligans, as we learned from the so-called. the tapes of truth, from the fact that I would say so, the discussion, although this word is not adequate for the level of conversation between these people drinking in the pub Was the ombudsman's sensitivity serious enough for you to investigate such information? Of course, this also raises a much broader question about the consequences of your hearing the results of the audit by Minister Kaminski, which could also have led you to the conclusion that the Polish state in 2015 acted against the interests of specific people, environments, Poles who have the right to their views, and these views do not have to be the same as yours, which after my first remark... You are still a spokesperson who defends citizens' interests, whether they are close to you or not. And in this context... [[Mr. Senator...]] And the third question... [[Mr. Senator, how about the third question in the next round? I'll write you down...]] Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u89	These questions have become quite a lot, the speeches are quite long. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u90	Thank you so much for the questions. The first question is quite problematic. How many cases do I run personally? Sometimes I meet clients in person. This is particularly the case for regional meetings. Here's what I'm gonna say. The activity of the office is so extensive that it is difficult to be involved in everything, it would just be impossible. I have three deputies who support me when it comes to overseeing individual departments. I have individual heads of teams I consult with. All the general speeches to the ministries, of course, I sign all the more important documents I sign. Sometimes, of course, it also happens to replacements. As far as I can, I'm trying to have, I'd say, substantive control over everything that's going on in the office. Of course, I'm responsible for all of this. So that's all I can say, that's pretty much what it looks like. With regard to the level of protection of the rights of the Roma people, we have two problems here. There is a Roma minority who, as we know, has lived in the territory of the Republic of Poland for centuries and has the status of a Roma minority, but also there are people on the nomad. When it comes to people who live primarily in Małopolska voivodship It's where the most problems occur. We are trying as hard as we can to participate in the resolution of this great conflict in Limanowa and in Czchow. My replacements were there with a visit, there were also representatives of the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities together with my colleague, Mr Marcin Sośniak. We are also taking part in some court proceedings that deal with this so as to try to resolve this problem in some way, although we are aware of the great tension that accompanies it. I think I've managed to get quite a bit about Poznan's nomadic grounds. I can tell you that thanks to the intervention I personally went to the nomadic area and organized 2 meetings on the subject at the City Hall of Poznań, and managed to solve quite a number of local problems when it comes to people who live there. I am very pleased with the case that was decided at the beginning of August this year by the Supreme Court. There was a statement on the Internet about people of the Roma nationality, extremely harmful, which, in my opinion, according to the rules of the Penal Code could be regarded as... The prosecution filed an indictment before the court, and the court dismissed the case, claiming that it generally falls within the limits of freedom of expression. That's what the second instance court said. We filed an appeal to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court, at the beginning of August of this year, stated that the court should clearly deal with this matter properly. And it seems to me that this is a very important signal, also when considering the trauma experienced by the Roma minority in Poland. This year, celebrations related to the anniversary of the Roma Holocaust took place. There was also a large conference in Krakow on this subject, in which I participated. If the senator wishes, I can, of course, submit a list of all the cases and actions that are on the subject. We did. As far as the German minority is concerned, I feel... Because I am actually pretty much committed to expanding Opole's borders. I was approached by local residents who were concerned about the content of the regulation It wasn't even a regulation at the time. It was a project. and some way to carry out this expansion of the borders of Opole. However, I believe that, first of all, I have never challenged the Council of Ministers' regulation. I haven't taken any action yet, and I'm deeply wondering if I should take it. However, it seems to me that what was my role in this conflict, and what I am proud of, is that I have actually led to the first conversations of warring parties with myself. This conversation took place twice a week, and there will be another one in my office next week. On the one hand, there was President Opole and his colleagues, on the other hand there were mayors and mayors of all the local municipalities that are connected. Bishop Andrzej Czaja participated in this, and the Opole Voivodeship, Marshal of Opole Voivodeship and representatives of Opole County participated. And in fact, I feel like if it wasn't for my great effort, these people would never be together. They didn't even talk because there were so many emotional issues. With regard to the rights of the German minority, of course the German minority also referred to me on this issue. But I think it's a problem that... How do I put this... In my opinion, he is not fundamental in this conflict. He's the background. But a background we can't ignore or ignore. I know that various legal opinions have been ordered, on the one hand, the opinion of Professor Bernaczyk, on the other hand, the opinion commissioned by the President of the City of Opole, Professor Izdebski and... Sorry, President Opole ordered the opinion of Professor Bernaczyk and Professor Izdebski, and on the other hand is the opinion of Professor Grzegorz Janusz. They analyse the issue from the point of view of respecting above all the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. This is an international agreement which has been ratified by Poland. And on this subject in my office next Monday, at 1 p.m., if my memory is correct, there will be a seminar, which is purely expert, to think about how to approach this topic and how, in the case of this extension, do not violate international obligations at the same time. So that I am trying really, believe me, to approach this issue constructively, so as to reduce social tension and at the same time seek to resolve a certain conflict. Thank you for your attention to the name of the laws. In fact, I'll try to say that. Thank you for your attention. As far as Professor Chazan is concerned, I do not recall taking action. I need to see if Professor Irena Lipowicz was taking action, because this is the time before... So, if you don't mind, I'll present the information in a letter. [[In writing.]] However, in order to point out the sensitivity to these issues, I will say that we have studied quite thoroughly... and we have taken action regarding the case in the hospital on Madalińskiego Street. I'm talking about the birth of a child who was left to die a natural death. And that's where we were driving. I'm looking at Director Wróblewski, with whom we worked here on the case. All extensive correspondence and with the capital city of Warsaw, and with the spokesperson of patient rights. So maybe we'll send it over while we're at it. As far as the Independence March and detention are concerned, again, I would have to check whether these people were addressing us and to what extent. However, I would like to stress that, for me, the issue of police violence, regardless of the situation, is a very fundamental issue. I've been doing a lot of that. If... every person who follows my work knows that I have repeatedly criticised previous governments for all kinds of abuse by the police and sought to explain such matters. The cases that took place in Lidzbark Warmiński, Siedlce, Olsztyn, the issue of violence after the Concordia Knur game in Knurów, are things that we always try to explain. And please, let me just say, don't deprive me of my goodwill when it comes to explaining these issues. I'd like to point out that as far as the Independence March is concerned, we're trying to pay attention to... the Ombudsman's office doesn't really have the resources and physical capabilities. It can be said that this does not fall within the competence of my employees In order to monitor the course of these events, it is usually done by the Helsinki Foundation, which is easier to involve volunteers; later the Foundation prepares quite comprehensive reports. We focus on monitoring whether the officers who are brought to secure the march are treated appropriately. And here's some interesting information: my representatives were monitoring supplies and support for officers on November 10th and basically didn't notice any problems, while a year ago, these problems, small ones, but they did occur. I think it is worth remembering that the Ombudsman may be present in this regard. Referring to the report by Mariusz Kaminski, the audit by Minister Kaminski, I will say this: after this audit I asked both Minister Kaminski and Minister Macierewicz to provide me with all the information on surveillance. I got word that... I mean, I only got a transcript from the Sejm meeting, a printout of what Minister Kaminski said. The Minister has not provided me with classified information, although he has the possibility. I was also informed that 19 notifications had been made to the D.A.'s office, so in the next letter I asked to present these notifications. I believe that these issues need to be clarified, but in order for me to explain them, I need to have a level of cooperation and a certain level of trust on the part of the officials when it comes to providing information. That's what I've been going through. including a procedure for access to classified information to receive such information under such conditions. I believe that clarification of surveillance issues is very important from the point of view of the quality of functioning of the State and therefore I have said that in Poland it is necessary to create an independent control body for the activities of special services. Such a body would, in the event of doubt, be able to explain such stories in a competent and full manner, because I am aware that my competences largely depend on the willingness of other civil servants to cooperate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u91	This is still about Professor Chazan, isn't it? No. It's already been done, isn't it? [[No, no. Just a big request for written answers in those passages that...]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Okay, of course.]] I already wrote that down. [[This is the first question concerning Professor Chazan, matters relating to the Independence March and the number of possible interventions.]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Of course.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask you to ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u92	Minister, I have noted in the report that the Ombudsman draws attention, and rightly so, to the situation of the elderly, which will soon represent 20% of our society, and I have a question on this matter. Well, you mentioned the unfulfilled judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal as regards the care provision for carers and carers, which were differentiated due to the time of independence. What are the reasons for the failure to comply with this judgment, whether or not the ministry gives a time limit within which this will be done? That's the first question. The second question concerns your attitude towards ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Old People. We still do not have a clear position of the authorities on this issue. I know you've been handling this case, so I'd ask you to share your information. Finally, I would like to ask about your speech concerning people living in the gardens, because, as probably many of you, I get positions from representatives of the gardens expressing concerns that the Ombudsman is acting against them and that your actions may lead to a change in the provisions of the newly adopted statute of the Polish Landowners' Union. That's three questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u93	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Józef Łyczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm not gonna touch the Court's case. I would like to refer to things that are of interest to ordinary Poles. As we know, the Court is absolutely not interested in ordinary Poles, they do not understand these dark rules around it, this subject is addressed by politicians and we see that the more they are more aggressively interested in this subject, the worse the effects of this are getting, parties are falling apart, etc. I would like to return to matters that are of interest to ordinary Poles, namely the subject of the children's homes discussed here by your spokesperson. I didn't like the fact that you raised the issue that it should go in 500+. It was either a thought or a continuation of the opposition's thought. Why? There is a heartfelt request to your spokesperson that you become involved in the action that I am constantly promoting, leading to these disgraceful, disgraceful relics of the past, which are so far children's homes, disappear from the map of Poland. We should all do everything we can to get these kids into foster homes or adopted. Then the problem you raised will be gone. The second case you raised, which also touched... I'm talking about the windmill problem. Yes, the issue of windmills in Poland was dealt with by law, which I was not entirely in favour of, because one helped, and others, especially young people, often caused various kinds of financial difficulties. Besides, we are a country that should use as much clean energy as possible. I am glad that soon this bill will be updated, and I think there will be rational records in it that will satisfy those who are disturbed by windmills and those who want to produce clean energy. [[And the question, Mr. Senator.]] Now, back to the point... Now, now, yes. [[Ask me a question.]] I'd like to say yes. Your role, Mr Ombudsperson, and our role as parliamentarians are consistent in many, many points. Our offices are also affected by various types of complaints against courts, prosecutions, often people who are badly hurt, evicted on the pavement, people who are deceived, robbed by criminals, people who do not know where to turn, because courts and prosecutors do what they do, and these people generally get nothing. My question is very simple. I understand you're involved in this. What is the effectiveness of your help? I'm sure you're conducting that analysis. In specific cases, and above all in the most sensitive ones, about which one can say that they take the heart, that is, eviction on the pavement and the recovery of money, which could not be recovered by honest, hard-working people, producing goods for people, for goods that someone took from them, and since they did not pay, does that mean that he stole? What's your effectiveness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u95	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Jan Żaryn. I'm asking you a question you haven't asked before.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u96	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have one more question about your statement. You mentioned the bill, or rather the absence of a reprivatization bill and the consequences that result from the lack of it. I'd like to know from you. I'd rather ask you to answer me in writing, too. What kind of man are you? Sees the genuinely existing problems arising from the absence of a reprivatisation law, from the point of view of violations of human and citizen rights both in the context, of course, of property rights and in the context of the rights of persons who have been indirectly wronged, even as tenants of immovable property returned in legal modes, of course, despite the absence of a reprivatisation law, or in the privatisation process of more or less wild, which could also produce specific disturbances in the field of civil rights. These categories are, of course, much more. I will not exhaust them in the question, and you, I fear, will not be able to tell about them all from the march either. If you could, please send me information on this range of activities for 2015 from the perspective of the question, what are the consequences of the lack of a reprivatization law in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u97	Thank you, Professor. And there you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u98	Thank you so much for the questions. As far as the issue of non-fulfilment of the judgment is concerned, our interventions, which were addressed to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, were: well, please implement the judgment, please execute it, there is an injury here. But these answers we received were quite general and in a sense did not point to the issue of lack of will. Well, it seems to me that the main and fundamental reason is that there is simply a lack of sufficient financial resources, the costs involved in the full implementation of this judgment. As for the question about the Convention on the Rights of Older People, here is a social initiative Also supported by the Ombudsman Which is generally called your old age and ours! It aims to make Poland de facto the initiator of the Convention on the Rights of Older People. It is such a reference to our tradition of shaping international law. Namely, if we look at the 1980s, then from Polish scientific backgrounds, environments dealing with the protection of the rights of the child, the postulate for the creation of a Convention on the Rights of the Child has emerged. This convention was subsequently adopted in 1989 at the United Nations General Assembly and became an extremely important instrument of international law. And so far we have a convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, we have a convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. And there is the idea that an international convention on the rights of older people should also be established, but that Poland should be the initiator of this convention. And that, I think, is a big demand for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take such action. Because in fact in Poland we have so many experiences, so many problems, so many unsolved things, that so to say, system-based from the issue of DPS, by the issue of the lack of geriatrics, doctors of specialists, the issue of the ageing of the population, by problems related to the transformation and exclusion of certain groups, living in rural areas • that all our problems could actually be quite a reflection on how this international standard of human rights relating to the rights of the elderly should look like. And I hope that by constantly repeating that something like this would be useful, Poland could also very interestingly exist on the international stage not only as, you can say, the beneficiary of various international agreements, but also as a promoter of various kinds of solutions. As for the yard, here's what I'm gonna say. Here it is, you can say, I would say a delicate situation when it comes to the relationship of the spokesperson with the Polish Landowners' Union. And here I would like to address two points. The first point is that some people, who are landowners, claim that the statute of the Polish Landowners' Union does not necessarily comply with constitutional standards, demands that the Ombudsman's office reflect on this issue. All I've done so far is send some questions to the P.D. to get P.D. to answer them. But already sending the questions themselves was interpreted as an attack on the independence of PZD, and so it was announced in the media or using other media. So that for now here, however much to look at, I did not take any action in this regard with regard to this PZD Statute. That's one thing. The second point is much more serious, I think. It is a matter of living in gardens. Whether we like it or not, there's a group of people who live in the gardens. Often, they were victims of reprivatization, those who had to move to the yard because they were unable to find another place to live in the city. And I am of the opinion that the plot gardens absolutely do not serve to live there permanently. Firstly, these are not places that are adapted to this. Secondly, we have a limit on the size of the gazebo. Thirdly, there is often no reception of garbage and water, energy, access to ambulances, etc., etc. This is a place for recreation, rest, not an apartment. However, since there may be people among these people who do not have other places provided, other places of residence, I am not convinced that such, I would say, a hard approach, on the basis of: immediately everyone moves out of the yard, will not lead to these people simply landing in accommodation facilities for homeless people and their housing situation will be much worse. I like the approach to this case, which was applied by the District Court in Poznań. Namely, the district court was investigating the case of one master who lives in gardens, there is no other alternative residence, there are no earnings or income that would allow him to rent an apartment on the free market. The court said, "Please move out, but you have until the end of 2017, so it has created a certain withdrawal period." And it seems to me... I will strive to work with individual cities, such as Poznań, Łódź, those in which these problems occur, to identify on the one hand those who have no alternatives, and on the other hand to create one, I would say, a program to leave or move out of the yard. But ultimately, gazebos should not be permanently inhabited by people. But the point is, without such a... If we approach this only on the basis that we have a law on the protection of the rights of tenants, etc. and that it results from certain powers, we will not solve the problem, because we know that the queue to social housing is so large that for these people there will be no more accessibility. I am counting on the program to perhaps give a solution to this problem and to increase the stock of cheap premises, rental premises, because it does not necessarily have to be social premises. Perhaps this will solve the problem. But here you have to, I think, work very closely with the local authorities. When it comes to the liquidation of children's homes, I would be very happy to join the action, and I would very much like to meet with the senator to talk to you about how I could support you. Absolutely. Fully agreed. The windmill issue. My postulate, but also my predecessor's postulate. And I suspect that many times in this forum she talked about it was to sort of regulate the distance between the windmill and the house. And, how to say it... the spokesperson is in this difficult situation, that later this postulate is realized, only that the legislator, so to speak, is exaggerating a bit, because this distance he has defined is that there is almost no place in Poland where these windmills could stand, and that there is a question of relationship and a charge of violation of the property rights of those who own these windmills, or the allegation that there is no development of pure energy. So that I can only be pleased that an amendment will be made in this regard. But I would like to stress that this is not my role in getting into this and precisely, with a ruler to analyze what distance it should be. Well, the specialists have to decide... I mean. experts must indicate this and Parliament must take a specific decision. What is the effectiveness of assistance on specific issues? Let me put it this way: we try to be as efficient as possible and intervene wherever we can. If we see such a space and possibility, then we proceed to court proceedings, sometimes we initiate individual proceedings, explain cases through interventions, we bring cassations. Unfortunately, what I see sometimes... Sometimes it's treated as an accusation against the Ombudsman that the spokesperson won't do something. But it's often past all deadlines. Well, for example. We have a cassation complaint against the Supreme Court in civil matters, which is limited in time, even if we try to come up with a solution, we can't. But then, on the other hand, there's a charge that the spokesperson didn't do anything. Well, sometimes he just can't do anything. It seems to me that it would be best if I simply answered the senator's question in writing, presenting some very concrete examples of intervention. What I would like to point out is that I was talking about it at the beginning. It is that sometimes, in certain situations, when problems can be solved through certain negotiations or attempts to reach an agreement, I try to do so. Today my deputy is, as I said at the beginning, in Chelm. It is perhaps about creating a support centre for adults with disabilities who are cared for by parents who, due to this care, are unable to take up a normal life, a normal job. I hope that our initiative will lead to the implementation of... And it's not such an initiative that we just got a letter. I was in Chełma earlier, then I sent my associate to investigate the terrain, the moods and the people you can talk to, and today there's a meeting that I hope will lead to something. There is, for example, a matter concerning the rights of tenants, and I think it is very specific. In Poznań there was a big problem concerning so-called regression claims, just à propos reprivatization. The situation is this: we give a private tenement with residents, these residents pay a minimum rent, the same as they always paid, and the city has to compensate the owner for the difference between this rent and the market rent. Only that the city of Poznań had this practice, as one of the cities unfortunately exceptional in that it subsequently returned to these residents with a so-called regression claim. So it demanded from them what it had paid private owners, that is, the difference. So a paradoxical situation arose. Because it is not only that the people mentioned here are usually poor, but they were still in debt in the order of several, several thousand PLN or tens of thousands of PLN. And in the course of such, one can say, negotiations or meetings on the one hand of the Wielkopolska Association of Locators, on the other hand the President of Poznań In cooperation with the NIK and the Regional Audit Chamber, it was possible to achieve such an agreement that the President withdrew from these claims and suspended those proceedings. So that what we're talking about here is not a stranger's practice. A week ago I also had a very interesting meeting with the head of Polish Power Networks on the one hand, and on the other hand With the injured inhabitants of Bakałarzewo, located in the vicinity of Suwałk. There, several people have been victimized in connection with the construction of an energy line. And what was precious to me was that the head of PSE openly admitted that the investments in Poland were done a little bit on the cheapest basis and as soon as possible, and the rights of the residents were, so to speak, somewhere in the back and were not respected enough. No reprivatization bill. I have addressed to the Prime Minister a large general speech, on twenty-several pages, where the actions of previous spokespersons and mine are presented on this subject. This problem can, of course, be seen at 2 levels. On the one hand, from the perspective of ownership... And what is part of my suggestion is that this problem can be solved, but also taking into account human rights standards. However, human rights standards do not foresee, first, that it is always necessary to give in nature, second That you always have to give up the full height. If we look at the ruling in the Broniowski case against Poland, a pilot's sentence spoke to the senator here, who is an excellent expert in Strasbourg. Then we'll see that there's a clear indication that you can adjust the amount of compensation if you return the property. And perhaps, if we thought ahead, we could regulate the matter in this way. On the other hand, there is, of course, the issue of illegal reprivatisation and protection of tenants' rights. And, for example, one of my suggestions is that the prosecution should actively take advantage of the possibility of joining civil proceedings for the return of real estate. That's a possibility. This is also one of the forms of ensuring the rule of law control in these situations. What I think will also be the subject of this House's reflection in the near future is a matter of amendment of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. It's amazing that this bill didn't include tenants as a group that should have such natural access... And we know that people who are affected by various housing problems often simply have problems finding a lawyer to lead the case. There are not many such specialists, and they do not want to deal with such matters. And if the tenants, also affected by the problem of reprivatization, had access to such free legal assistance, this could have helped. Of course, I will send the entire speech in writing, because there are twenty pages of consideration. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] We also point out that if you look at the various entities that have benefited from reprivatisation, then unfortunately there is such a sense of real inequality in relation to the law. Some have, some haven't. And it's all gonna have to be settled in some way, end and close, because it's gonna keep coming back. The use of general instruments of civil law, instruments in the form of annulment of administrative decisions, i.e. general rules of administrative law, will continue to bring about a return to the problem rather than a solution to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Jarosław Oremski and then Senator Jan Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u100	Thank you. Minister, I have listened with great respect to the report. For me, the statements of the Advocates are always a demonstration of the scale of legal paradoxes or the lack of legal sensitivity that we still have, especially with regard to children or people with disabilities. I have two questions. The first concerns a rather delicate case, i.e. Since civil rights are not only some legal issues, but also the climate, the language of debates, I would like to point out that the issue of abortion of children who may be burdened with Down syndrome has often been addressed in the discussion on the Law on the Protection of Life. Children with Down syndrome, and often adults, live among us, are citizens of our country, have often graduated and understand what is happening in society, maybe not less than us. I have the impression that in this debate, as if it were a street, the borders were very often crossed. I don't know how to describe symbolic violence. I mean, somehow I'm not able to imagine street demonstrations in which the issue of the right to abortion e.g. would be motivated not by chromosome 21, but by the color of the skin or some genes that they define e.g. ethnicity. I'd like to make you a little more sensitive. It's also a way of looking at it. They're with us, they're fellow citizens. I have the impression that this kind of debate, in which it is said that it is better that the likes of them are not born, is very cruel. Second question. The Council of Europe often draws the attention of the Kingdom of Norway to the fact that it is too easy to take away parental rights for children to whom they have some kind of defined violence or too little concern... Maybe it's more of a question to the Ombudsman, but... Do you have such interventions when it comes to Polish citizens from mixed marriages or from people who have not lost Polish citizenship but live in Norway and are affected by this problem? How can you intervene? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Dobrzyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, we can learn from the media that you have worked quite closely with the committee. The United Nations on the adoption of a position of discipline for our country. What was your role? Where do you see the absences? I'll tell you what. A democratic rule of law in our country? Because the way I understand it is, since you've worked together, you agree with that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u103	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask another question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u104	Thank you very much. I have a general question. The report is very extensive and points to the very active activities of the Ombudsman and his office. Part of the case reports begins with a complaint, complaints, numerous complaints. Others start like this: the spokesperson monitors, the spokesperson watches. Tell me about the proportion between specific complaints or groups of complaints that you take on your own initiative as a result of the observation of legislative activities or the functioning of state institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u105	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u106	Thank you very much for your comments and comments. I believe that this is actually the role of the Ombudsman to pay attention to the language of the public debate, and I refer to this subject. And that in fact certain terms may be harmful to people with disabilities who live among us, or may be overused. At one time I had such a large text on the Internet concerning people with intellectual and mental disabilities and the use of various types of terms relating to mental illness, how easy it is to use terms and phrases that are simply hurtful and which cause even greater exclusion of these people. We've also prepared... We even have a special report prepared on this subject, which is based on press analysis and media publications on this issue. But such a second group, which has also been affected by this, are Muslims who are very complaining about the change in their approach, their treatment and language towards them, which translates into such ordinary life as the university people who come to us. And we've also prepared a report on it. So that I can only promise to pay more attention to it. With regard to the Council of Europe's actions and the attention of the various countries... In fact, Norway has an office called Barnevernet, if my memory is correct, maybe I changed that name a little bit. This is an office that is equivalent to the German Jugendamt. And usually... Unfortunately, we have a situation of mass economic emigration from Poland and at the same time we have a problem that when Polish citizens leave, they meet other traditions, with a different approach, with a different level of sensitivity. Something that is considered acceptable under our circumstances causes family problems suddenly. So to put it so graphically, if a parent raises his voice to a child or starts to say so, to bully this child. It's not about physical violence, it's not about the fact that the lessons haven't been done, it's probably there already qualified as a reason to intervene and there are all kinds of problems in this context. On this subject there was a movie "The Alien Sky," which probably pictured it quite well. We in every case that is reported to us are trying to intervene and we have 2 options for such intervention. Firstly, it is contact with our consulate and check what consuls can do in a given case, but also sometimes contact with the Ministry of Justice, for example. in the latter case related to Jugendamt, because the Ministry of Justice sometimes has better opportunities for cooperation. In other situations, it is an opportunity to contact a national human rights institution, i.e. my counterparts in other countries, but unfortunately there is not always this equivalent. In Germany e.g. There is no ombudsman equivalent, there are only military ombudsman and the German Institute for Human Rights, which deals with advisory activities for the federal government, but does not carry out typical intervention activities. But in this case, we have achieved some results as a result of our correspondence and there has been a modification of the working rules of this Norwegian institution, precisely as a result of our complaints and our contacts. The question arises as to whether this is satisfactory enough. But, of course, I will send you detailed information on this matter in writing. I think this is a good time to tell you about the Ombudsman's mandate, that I am not running away from cross-border issues that concern Polish citizens. One issue in which, it seems, I have managed quite a lot so far, but not all, is the issue of violence against Polish citizens in the British Isles. About two months ago, I went to London to meet with the head of the British Commission for Equality and Human Rights, and I saw representatives of Amnesty International and representatives of several other organizations and individuals, with the great support of Ambassador Arkady Rzegocki. In January we plan to organize such, you can say, a debate involving all those institutions which in the UK are responsible for the security of Polish citizens. And to be honest, it is that even the British human rights institutions, those responsible for these issues, were surprised at what was going on after Brexit. It is not that for them it was natural, for them it is also in a sense a mental shock, that a country which was considered to be a model of a multicultural approach can move so quickly to a level where language violence or physical violence is applied to migrants from Central and Eastern Europe, because it is not only about Poland, Poles, but also about the Czechs, Romanians, Bulgarians or Slovaks. Senator Dobrzyński's question. I would like to say that I strongly disagree with what was presented in the news about TVP 2 weeks ago. It wasn't real material, it wasn't material that gave the essence of my cooperation with the UN Human Rights Committee. And now, to sort things out, I'm gonna tell you how it works. According to Art. 17a of the Ombudsman's Act, the Ombudsman is to cooperate with national and foreign human rights institutions. From the point of view of international standards, it is quite clear that institutions such as the Ombudsman present their reports to the individual UN Treaty Committees, whether it be the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities or the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. combating all forms of discrimination against women, the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights or the UN Human Rights Committee. The Treaty bodies are bodies acting on the basis of different international agreements which have been ratified by the State. It looks like: the Polish state presents its report, the Ombudsman can present his counter-report It may not be just me, it may also be the spokesperson for the rights of the child, who was also presenting his report to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. After that, various NGOs present their reports, if they are interested, then a session is held in Geneva, where they are discussing the subject, and the result of this discussion and analysis of all reports is the presentation of the so-called. including observations, i.e. recommendations of the committee concerned. And I've presented two reports. I presented one to the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which adopted its final report at the beginning of October, exactly 7 October 2016, and I am convinced that we can all agree fully with many issues here. I mean, things like the gray area, equal pay for work of equal value, trade union rights, social security, etc., etc. In turn, the report of the UN Human Rights Committee was adopted precisely October 31st and published November 4th. As regards matters relating to the rule of law, the report also takes into account issues related to, for example, the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Exactly what the Committee has said is point 8 of this report: The State Party should ensure respect for and protection of the integrity and independence of the Constitutional Tribunal and its judges and ensure that all decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are enforced. The Committee urges the Party to publish all judgments of the Court without delay, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u107	Of course, I'm glad you're cutting yourself off from what TVN showed you, but there's something disturbing about this position, aside from the Court's case, because this is the smallest case... The recommendations on other issues assessed that Poland should strengthen anti-discrimination rules due to the increase in violence incidents, hate speech and discrimination on grounds of racial, national, ethnic, religious or sexual orientation. From all the questions we have asked you, Mr. Czerwiński has asked you, and from this statement there is no such position, on the contrary, we have no problems as a country. So why is this in the position of this committee or this group, as you call it? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: I mean, I think we have a problem with that...]] Where is it, Minister? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: In my opinion...]] Why don't you say something about it, because I don't know anything, we don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u108	Okay, well, let me introduce you to the senator. I think we have a problem on two levels. First of all, we have a problem with the fact that in Poland regulations concerning... i.e. the provisions of art. 256 and 257 and Articles. The 119th Penal Code, which provides for responsibility for various forms of verbal violence and physical violence, is not sufficient. They do not include discriminatory conditions such as age, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity. And on this subject many times... Well, maybe not many times, but we presented two general speeches to the Ministry of Justice, which unfortunately did not meet with recognition. That's the first problem. And the second problem is that if we look at the statistics, the official statistics of the Police Headquarters concerning the so-called. hate crimes, i.e. those crimes that are already regulated in Article. 256 and 257, we will see that we are dealing with an increasing number of such situations. Moreover, every once in a while, unfortunately, I deal with various kinds of beatings on such a background. Recently I saw the authorities of the University of Nicholas Copernicus, which are very concerned that in June and October students from the Erasmus programme were beaten in their city, just for ethnic reasons. I dealt with cases of such beatings in Gdańsk, Poznań, Warsaw, Łódź and I know that such situations... [[That's what you wrote to the organization after all...]] But that was part of my report. My report counted 30 pages of various analyses and various thoughts on the situation in Poland. I have already said here that I have presented my report to both the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the UN Human Rights Committee. The report addressed to the UN Human Rights Committee was available on the Ombudsman's website on October 17 and was not secretly hidden because it was not a secret activity. That's my problem. That's what a big deal was made of, while it's standard procedure. [[Thank you.]] And Senator Wach's question of taking matters on his own initiative and of his own motion. Let me tell you, it's hard for me to... Because we have this classification: on our own initiative and on our own. Of course, the vast majority of cases are those raised as a result of complaints lodged with the Ombudsman's office. Sometimes these complaints are, I would say, mass. Senator Czerwiński asked about Opole. Well, for example. I get complaints all the time, and all the time, I'd say, the level of satisfaction with everything I'm doing in this case is probably not very high. My point is that there are some issues where these complaints are simply relatively large. On the other hand, when it comes to public affairs, it is usually the case that, as we drive around the country, different people report various problems. Sometimes we also monitor what's in the press. Of these tens of thousands of cases we take, those we take from the office, there are about a few hundred on a yearly basis, so that there is little. We're trying to wait for complaints. In fact, these complaints are often repeated. But if I read the article in the paper and I see that there is a problem, I'm not waiting for someone to complain to me, I'm just taking action myself, which is a reaction to these media reports. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Silence, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u110	Mr. Ombudsman, I have a question about the protection of human freedom. How do you assess the regulation of the article? 258 §2, which introduces a very broad condition for the application of provisional detention, which is properly regarded by the court as mandatory where the upper limit of the threatening penalty is at least 8 years? Because, unfortunately, at the moment, there is such practice that it is enough for a man to accuse himself of committing an act that is at risk of being punished in such a way as to deprive him of his freedom. Very often this leads to a hasty application of temporary detention and, consequently, to losing cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, as in the case of the Kauchor case against Poland or the case of detention, the case had to be against Poland, and many, many others. It even happens that the Council of Europe recognizes Poland. This is already a situation a few years ago. For a country having structural problems respecting human freedom, resulting either from bad law or even more from wrong practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u111	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u112	Dear Senator, what can I say, you will have more cases and more clients unfortunately in connection with this provision, because it is absolutely incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. I regret that Minister Warchoł, who is an excellent criminal expert and knows the standards of human rights, promoted this solution by presenting an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, presenting it as Deputy Minister of Justice. Because that's how we actually put all the Strasbury achievements in the Kauchor case or the hundreds of other cases that have been handled in the basket. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 258 was challenged by me to the Constitutional Court. I look forward to hearing the Court's decision, and I hope that the Court will modify it. In my opinion, it cannot be that the arrest only applies and only because the defendant is in danger of high punishment and that this may be the only sufficient condition. I would like to point out that this is not the only problem we have with temporary detention, we have two other ones. First of all, the maximum amount of temporary arrest is missing, which she showed very nicely. I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... The case of the famous Legion fan. She showed how far it could go, that if it weren't for the great interest of the media, he might have been sitting for over 3.5 years and no one would even be going to finish the trial. And here I also addressed a request to the Court in order to finally specify in Polish law that there must be a disciplinary limit for all the authorities of the State which must fit with the process at least before the first instance to a specific stage of the procedure. We'll see how the Court does that. I would also like to point out that the Act on Anti-Terrorism of June 2016 provides another basis for the application of 14-day interim detention, and this could raise doubts from the point of view of conventional standards. This was also the subject of an appeal before the Constitutional Court. And I also wanted to point out that the Committee of Human Rights referred to all these things. He recommended to Poland that on the one hand we should appreciate that Poland has done a lot to limit the use of temporary arrests because we know very well that such cases, in which arrests are used serially, are already rarer But it still doesn't mean that those laws that have been introduced recently... unfortunately, they make human rights protection worse. And I regret a little that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the body that oversees the execution of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, closed the examination and examination of Poland in this regard, which is to close the cases under the heading "Kauczor and other matters', because now we will have to wait for another sentence to try, through the Court in Strasbourg and the monitoring body of the Council of Europe, to encourage the Polish authorities to amend the rules in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u113	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! First question. I'd like that to be a pretty precise answer. Let's separate the immigration issues, the issues of the Roma minority, as I said, mostly related to economic status. I'm talking about national and ethnic minorities, those that are indicated in our bill, there are dozens of them, probably 14. Did you have any complaints in 2015 related to violations of the rights under which the rights of national and ethnic minorities were based? We're abstracting the Opole case because it's a different issue. And that's one specific question. And the second point is more of a statement, and I would ask you to refer to it. The institution itself that you represent, which you are the representative of right now, is very much needed, because it is often the only way, it is, let's call it, the last resort. But you're above all... But first of all, you should represent the weakest, those who don't break into the media as if they were celebrity. First of all, it's about getting even, so I'd call it... The main real problems that are in Poland... They're performing and we're gonna level them, but it's gonna take a while. And a question. Do the attempts to express their views, to express themselves, call it political correctness, the views previously presented in the course of this function help in the performance of this function, or are they disturbing? Is it too bright a demonstration of these views... You yourself stated that your views on the protection of sexual minorities and the issue of language hatred did not divide the Ministry of Justice. So there's a difference, let's call it sensitivity. Don't you think that your sensitivity should be like that of most Polish people, not like a politically correct Europe, that it should go this way rather than towards a politically correct Europe? That's one thing. Secondly, shouldn't you be dealing with the problems of the most hurt, weak, not trying to get into the political struggle and Sorry for the expression, don't read it as paintings, push yourself on the front page of the newspaper? The issue of the Constitutional Tribunal, the issue of the UN report, the issue of the Smolensk exhumations are perhaps good issues to enter the celebrity position, but I do not know whether such activity favours the exercise of the role of ombudsman, the rights of the weakest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u115	Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u116	Thank you so much for the questions. As far as the rights of national and ethnic minorities are concerned, a number of issues are important. In addition to what I have already mentioned, i.e. the issue of living conditions of members of the Roma community in Limanowa, Czchow, etc., there were topics concerning the destruction of memorial sites in the Ukrainian minority, topics concerning the availability of educational opportunities for members of the Ukrainian and Belarusian minority. They also showed up... In particular, the Belarusian minority pointed out that they had a feeling of insufficient support in respect for their culture. The interesting thing is that violence issues, even with Muslims... This problem has also been affected by the Tatar minority. It is very important, and sometimes unnoticed, that if we have a national and ethnic minority, it should be possible to learn from textbooks that are properly prepared for it, translated into appropriate languages. The Ukrainians complained about it. We had an exchange of rather interesting correspondence with the Ministry of National Education. I think this correspondence caused some new ones. opening up on these issues. Well, basically, it's like... All these violence issues I've been talking about, they're also affecting minorities. A language of non-acceptance... If you don't mind, I'll send a detailed report in which we presented to the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities, because she questioned us quite deeply about these... Even the annual report doesn't give it all back. It was a great satisfaction for me that the committee adopted our report in this regard without reservation. When it comes to trying to express your views... The Ombudsman is the body of the State to deal with the rights of all minorities, of all groups. It can't be based on what most people like or don't like. If a group of people, even relatively small as transgender persons, address the Ombudsman's office, it is my job to take care of them. If we are talking about the protection of the rights of persons belonging to sexual minorities, then I must point out that Polish law provides for this, starting with the Constitution, art. 32 Constitutions, by Labour Code, Chapter 2a. This is also foreseen, for example. The Radio and Television Act, which states in the rules relating to advertising, that these cannot be content that discriminates, among others. because of sexual orientation. I believe that it is my role to insist on the exercise of constitutional rights and the statutory rights of persons belonging to minorities, including sexual minorities. If in Polish laws protecting against discrimination, against verbal violence and physical violence, these minorities are not included, then my role is to insist on it. This is not, I think, some political correctness, but these are the recommendations of the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, and recommendations recently adopted by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It seems to me that such a decent approach based on human dignity should also justify my actions in this area. As far as the issue of a certain media image is concerned, I assure the senator that it is absolutely not my goal, so to speak, to build popularity or to expose my person on some subject. Whether I wanted it or not, the subject of exhumation had to be dealt with because the families asked me to. I had to wonder if there was an option in this situation that people who claim that their personal well-being in the form of the right to respect the memory of loved ones would be violated... As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, as we have discussed here before, I believe that this is a fundamental body for the protection of civil rights. The Ombudsman cannot accept that nothing happens at a time when the independence of the constitutional body which is responsible for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the individual may be the subject of infringements. Here's what I'm gonna say. I would like the media, as well as the public media, to discuss issues such as the problems of people with disabilities, people with disabilities, the functioning of DPSs, the functioning of prisons, correctional facilities, youth shelters and a whole lot of other topics to say social. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past year, It's the first time I've said it, because it's hard to complain in public, but if that's a question I can say. I've only been on public television once, on a show with Bronisław Wildstein. Just once. If you compare this one of mine... It seems to me that the constitutional body of the Ombudsman, which deals with so many civil rights, should have some form of access to public media. I suspect that this does not result from the fact that Polish citizens are not interested in what the Ombudsman is doing. I am very keen on these various topics in television or public media I'd like to talk to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Silence, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u118	Mr. Ombudsman, I have a question about the operation of the Social Security Office. I know that many people feel injured by the fact that only before the expiry of the period of limitation of the claims of the Social Security Office concerning insurance premiums, i.e. the 10-year period, administrative decisions of the Social Security Office are issued, which obliges them to pay contributions for the universal insurance in place of agricultural insurance, because the Social Security Office concludes that the farmer who is insured in KRUS should be insured in the Social Security Office because he has undertaken some business activity there. The rules in this case are extremely unclear, and their knowledge is not widespread among people, especially among the farmers concerned. This very frequent kind of expectation to this extreme moment, i.e. until almost 10 years later, after which this period of claim for a statute of limitations, results in huge interest on the sums due. I happen to know that the woman who ran the farm counted over 100 thousand zlotys in total. Well, it's a man's ruin. This woman was close to being out of her mind, considering committing suicide. I had to be very obsessed to give her the hope that she might possibly be able to fight something in court, although I am aware that the case is very difficult. But regulations to this extent, I think, are imprecise and people are hurting a lot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u119	Thank you very much. Maybe Senator Fedorovich. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Actually, my question is out of date, because you, with the right culture, have responded to such a challenge: shoving yourself into the celebrity market. Words like that shouldn't be in Senator's language. Yeah, but apparently this is the world we live in. Minister, I remind colleagues who, as usual on this side of the scene, do not know why, attack the representative of the constitutional body, which is the ombudsman, as if it were their political opponent, which in my view is not allowed in any way... This is the senator's statement for now. And now I'm gonna ask you a question. Do any of your political views affect your in-kind, professional activities as a minister, an ombudsman? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u121	Please answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u122	Senator Silence's first question was about the ZUS. I received information from the director of Nawatski, who is the head of the Labour Law and Social Security Team, that there were no such complaints. Such specific complaints did not come to light. We may have to look into it, because sometimes citizens don't know that they can complain about it. We have a lot of cases concerning the operation of the Social Security Office. Like things like... Recently, I was in Chelm, and there were people complaining that there was a problem with proving that you were working under harmful conditions. It takes some time to prove that the shoe factory that was located there didn't care very much about standards, good health conditions. And then, of course, there are long peripeties in contact with the ZUS to figure that out. But I would like to draw attention to one thing that, unfortunately, sometimes happens in Poland, and actually the tax offices lead in this. And that's exactly the problem that the senator told you about. Namely, the problem of citizen's confidence in the state. Because the deadline is running out, there may be a statute of limitations in a moment, and it suddenly turns out that we are going to initiate proceedings only to interrupt the limitation period. I'm looking forward to hearing the application submitted to the Constitutional Court so that he can reflect on this electoral rule, which, in a sense,... [[Tax.]] Please? [[Tax.]] Tax dollars, yeah, yeah. Tax, of course. ...which confers excessive powers in respect of the activities of the tax office in respect of precisely this limitation period. But it is also important to remember that in every such situation we have judicial review. If such cases arise in courts, we may approach such cases or bring complaints to citizens. Of course, if we identify a specific legal problem in this, if it is not just a matter of individual abuse. About the issue of my political views... Everyone has political views, but I would like to stress: I am not a politician, I have never been a politician, I have never been a political party. Anyone who spends two minutes tracking my resume will notice that I have worked at the Helsinki Foundation, which has been famous for criticizing every government in turn, referring to human rights standards. For me, the determinant of my role is the constitution, is my vow, is my maximum professional integrity. That's what I've been trying to hold on to since the beginning of my term of office, and I'm gonna stick to the end of my term of office in three years, nine months, and 24 days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u123	Senator Alexander Bobko. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u124	I have a question about a slightly different plane. There are a lot of details here, but life is made up of details, so it is good that the Minister, the Ombudsman, raises these issues in such detail. I'd have the following question. The idea of human rights or the idea of citizens' rights was an idea which was an answer, actually a tool to safeguard human freedom. It was created under certain conditions when freedom was threatened by various factors. I have a question for you: how do you consider this important position, what do you think today in Poland, including Europe, is the main source of threats to human and citizen freedom? If it were possible in a few... I don't know. What would you say about this, what do you think is the greatest threat to freedom today?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u125	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u126	I'd like to answer that question on two levels. The first is theoretical, the question is whether freedom, often perceived only in terms of personal freedom, is a value as important in modern times as it was at a time when we had political prisoners, when there was a time, as it were, to gain democracy, when we tried to create democracy in our country. It seems to me that today much more important is the value of the right to privacy. If we were talking about the right to privacy and were to think more deeply about what the right to privacy is, it would turn out that basically we now need more guarantees that used to apply to personal freedom as regards the right to privacy. Perhaps this is the moment for such a global reflection, not only in Poland, on something as far as we have freedom from interference by the state in our sphere of privacy and on how much the state, through its various activities, can control us, but perhaps also by knowing how we behave, can affect our behaviour. This, of course, also applies to private entities. It seems to me that in Poland this debate will be particularly interesting when we will soon start functioning in the face of a new EU Data Protection Regulation, which on the one hand will strengthen the General Data Protection Officer and, on the other hand, will rephrase issues relating to our approach to privacy, strengthen us instrumentally in terms of protection. That's why I have so much attention. I would like to refer, for example, to the powers of special services, parliamentary control, the powers of the prosecutor, the police, etc. It seems to me that, from the point of view of such classic human rights, it is extremely serious. The second thing I would like to say, because this is, I would say, a kind of civilization challenge, is the role of private actors in our lives, because it may turn out that this major breach is no longer a state with your camera, it is not a public authority, moreover, in some situations perhaps the fact that we have learned to apply human rights standards makes these threats to our rights easier to identify, it is easier to check, it is easier later to accuse someone of it or to hold them accountable. I spoke for a reason about the need for monitoring in these private shelters, accommodation for the elderly. This is a classic example: the state does not play its full role in providing care to older people, we have a problem of lack of solidarity between generations, it enters into this free market, the free market provides an instrument in the form of shelters, places of residence, but the state does not keep up with the process of this change through its control apparatus, moreover, considering that perhaps the contract, the contract will do everything. That's another problem, too. Now there is such a big discussion about the so-called. Censored on Facebook, which was taken in connection with blocking several websites. Let's take a closer look at this. In my opinion, this is not just about whether or not we are blocking this website, but about when Facebook has 2 billion users on a global scale, it has become just as important a communication tool as media, press, television. It's not just a private entity anymore. This is an entity that maybe creates us some kind of public good, and maybe we should consider whether at some point in this public good, which are these 2 billion subscribers, users, people who are used to such communication, will not use it for purposes that may be either against Polish law, or, so to speak, excessive, or maybe some manipulation will be applied here if you look at it in a certain long term. So I would say this: privatisation of public tasks, certain equipment of private entities, or that they themselves become participants in our public life, and the lack of sufficient control and intellectual reflection on this can pose a serious threat to our freedom in the long term.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u127	Senator Fedorovich. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u128	Minister... Oh, of course, Mr. Marshal and Minister! This will be a question from a series of questions raised by the senator so that citizens watching our broadcast or wanting to look at the protocols know what the rules of the rule of law are. Well, I just read that the Minister of Justice and his Deputy Minister, as well as one of the senators, are being accused by a newspaper, semi-serious, that they have led to some embezzlement. Or to some bad spending of public, European money. Because it's already international. Of course, if it happened to a person like that. Some of my colleagues or me, this case would be court-martialed because it would be obvious to say so. But in this situation, would it be a question of my choice if I ran for the help of the ombudsman, because here I am mistakenly suspected of any such kind, let's call it... well, because there's talk? I'm sorry to bring this up, but it's because I often hear senators' opinions that Poles don't understand what the Constitutional Tribunal means... So why don't you answer me if I have to go to court first, or if the ombudsman stands up for me, in case of unfair attacks, of course, e.g. From the newspapers?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u129	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u130	It seems to me that in a situation where there are attacks on an individual, we have many legal instruments at our disposal to counter it. We have private indictments for defamation, we have lawsuit for the protection of personal property, and we have the right to legal support in such situations. And these are... Let me put it this way: at the moment of this kind of accusation, it seems to me that it is what should be done to protect an individual's reputation. But, of course, in certain situations, we can expect and should expect, apart from our individual involvement, also the involvement of the prosecution in order for the case to be investigated, the case examined and conducted a fair investigation. In such situations, people often ask me whether the Ombudsman can check the procedure of the preparatory proceedings to some extent, so whether the prosecution is working properly. And we often download files, analyze them, give some of our comments in response. And that's what the spokesperson is for. What's more, a lot of these... well, maybe not a lot, but there are a few cases that also require the involvement of a secret firm to explain the circumstances. So that it seems to me that in such situations the Ombudsman should rather be a subsidiary body supporting, controlling the actions of the authorities at a time when an individual is unable to protect himself in terms of his or her reputation. It is different if we are dealing with situations where there is entry e.g. in the sphere of discrimination against a person because of some quality of it, or because of the rules I was talking about. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 256 and 257 k.k.a. We are, of course, trying to be a little more active because of the Ombudsman's mandate. [[I have an additional question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u131	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u132	Thank you very much, Minister, for this reply, but this is a completely unusual situation, because the accusations concern the Minister and Deputy Minister of Justice, and also the Attorney General. So how is he supposed to defend himself? [[That's not true.]] Well, I'm sorry, but... [[Is that a question or a legal advice?]] I withdraw the question. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u133	Thank you very much. I inform you that the Ombudsman has committed himself to providing written answers to questions asked by Senator Dobrzyński, Żaryn, Łyczak, Czerwiński. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Thank you, Mr Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bobka. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Do I still have here...]] No, no, please take your seat. You have the right to comment on the senators' statements in the discussion. [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Uh-huh, good.]] If I may, I will only give you a brief message: at 5 p.m., I will announce an hour's rest at the request of the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: 5:00 p.m.?]] At 5:00 p.m. there will be an hour break at the request of the Civic Platform. You're welcome, Senator. [[Right now?]] [[That's it, Mr. Marshal, announce a recess. 'Cause how much longer is there? We've got 15 minutes.]] Senator, I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! This debate is, in my opinion, very important, and not only because of its level of detail. It is a huge source of knowledge about the state of respect for human rights and the citizen in Poland, but it also gives the opportunity to deepen reflection and to take a closer look at this important issue. I would like to remind you that the idea of human rights was born at a certain time in history and that it was a very important idea that has largely developed modern social and political order. This idea developed during the period in which it was a weapon, a tool to fight for the expansion of the individual's freedom in conflict or in the collision with the absolute power of the sovereign, the monarch, i.e. with the power of a different kind than the one we are dealing with today. Today we often forget about it in this kind of, let's say, law enforcement around human rights. Well, today's discussion was just the kind of thing to do in a good way. It is worth recalling the link between the idea of human rights and the principle of individual freedom. In Polish experience, the idea of human rights had a particularly important moment in the times of communism, in the times of the Polish People's Republic, when it was, I would say, a particularly handy, useful tool to fight the totalitarian system. An excellent example of using this tool was John Paul II, i.e. As some have said about him, the pope of human rights. However, today, in the last 20 years, after 1989, it seems that the situation has changed. And he's giving up in front of us. It's a major change. I already mentioned this in my question to your spokesperson. Let me repeat this question, which is worth considering seriously and deeply: what is the threat of freedom today? What today in the modern world, the globalized world, the world of the Internet You could go on like this. In the world of change related to biotechnology, medical progress, new techniques, is it a threat to freedom? I'd add the question of whether and if so, to what extent The traditional category, the idea of human rights, is still a key and important tool for the protection of freedom. 'Cause in history, it's often... I mean, it's a natural process that some tools, devices and inventions, excellent in their own time, then find themselves in antiques. The same applies to social and political ideas. I would not argue that the idea of human rights today is an archaic idea, but I would ask the question to what extent, in view of today's challenges and threats to freedom, the idea of human rights is still a key and fundamental tool. That's a good question to ask. There are doubts because... Despite some undoubted differences between the Ombudsman's view of the world and mine, this stems from the discussion and from the well-known activities of the Ombudsman. I largely agree with the answer to my question I have heard. I mean, when it comes to calculating the risks that I have prepared for myself, it is actually largely in line with what you said in this ad hoc reply. So the authorities of supranational institutions, which are kind of invisible to legislation or international or individual countries, or the threat to privacy, not even from the services, because today, often a clever young man can violate privacy or intimacy more than the officials of the state's special services... In my opinion, the legal Leviathan, the legal system that protects or wants to protect the law, is also a great threat today, but it is doing so more and more detailfully. There is some inflation of legal tools, as well as inflation. Please don't be offended. The institutions of the Ombudsman or of the Advocates. I do not know if today there are dozens of advocates in Poland, located legally or constitutionally. There's also a spokesperson for the rights of the child, a consumer spokesperson... Well, I'm not gonna do the math. There's a certain inflation of all this. Question: To what extent are rights and freedoms effectively protected in this situation? One more observation. Namely expanding the catalogue of rights, because we certainly have... In addition, the literature describes how the catalogue of rights has expanded and continues to expand over the past few decades: the catalogue of economic rights is even referred to as the third generation of economic rights sort by the catalogue of minority rights, etc. Isn't it sometimes that expanding the catalog becomes, in a sense, anti-effective? Because extending the directory of rights is also at a cost. Speaking e.g. The parent's relationship in terms of the rights of the child undoubtedly stirs up and violates traditional thinking about the family, so it really violates what used to be called parental authority and for many centuries has been a positive feature in our European tradition. Talking about it in terms of the right of the child is, in my opinion, a kind of social experiment. The catalogue of economic rights is clearly extended at the expense of restrictions on property rights, rights that also have their tradition in our civilization. But today I see danger. And that's probably gonna be the last point because of the time. Also in the fact that this beautiful idea of human rights is often used instrumentally for certain ideological fights, to force their views, which have little in common with the real concern for the protection of human rights. So it is often a tool to push some axiological or ideological changes in Europe. Such an example, very disturbing to me, is e.g. it is when contemporary Europe talks about admissibility, legalisation It refers to the idea of human rights, i.e. when modern Europe says that a woman's right to abortion is a fundamental human right. What does this have to do with the idea of human rights that protects human freedom? I'm abstracting my views on abortion here, but the point is to what extent This is an obvious abuse of this idea. And unfortunately, we are dealing with this kind of abuse very often today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borowski. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Senate! Not so long ago, a little over a year ago, we voted here in this Chamber, choosing an ombudsman. The debate was long, you can even say it ate. There was a clear division of opinion as to whether Mr Adam Bodnar would be a good spokesman. Well, I'm absolutely not entitled to speak on behalf of those who didn't support this candidacy, but it seems to me that those of you who were in the courtroom today It's only a pity that in such a small number And those who have listened to this report have heard the answers to the questions, I think, maybe even changed their mind a little bit, and in any case they do not suffer because Mr Adam Bodnar himself is a spokesperson for civil rights. I want to thank him from this place, him and his coworkers. Because he's the one outside, but we know very well that all the cases that the spokesperson deals with, 57,000 cases, fall apart into a group of people who work really hard. Of course, there are times when there are neglects, sometimes things fall apart, or not everyone is happy with these interventions. Well, we have to accept that. And if we want to avoid it, we should help this institution. And I have to remind here, especially to my colleagues in Law and Justice, that during the adoption of the budget still in the Sejm, when someone was no longer remembering who offered to cut funds for the office of spokesperson, and when in the Senate, which should, after all, defend this institution, we tried to... Well, I'm talking here, we've tried about minorities. This minority tried to restore the previous amounts... Because there has been evident discrimination, and I will remind you that an amount of less than the previous year's expenditure has been adopted. Therefore, there was a proposal to at least restore the amount as it was before. And that was rejected by the majority. I think you'd have to be a little embarrassed because it's really shooting yourself in the foot. Mr. Spokesman replied here. Very, in my opinion, to the question of whether, on a suggestion, Senator Czerwiński's statement, which I regard very much for the succinctness and logic of the speech. Mr. Senator raised a really important problem: why is it that the Ombudsman deals with some remains that most people have a different view of. Yeah, that's the thing. It is precisely that most people have a different view, but a minority must be protected. And the same principle is notabene in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal is not meant to protect the majority. It doesn't make sense, because most people make the laws they want. He must protect the minority. In this case, I am not referring to ethnic minorities or others who sometimes complain to the Court. He protects the political minority from the complete exercise of power by the majority. So I think your spokesperson is doing this very well and he's very much here, so to speak, active and hardworking. Now I'm gonna move on to a more general case, which is my horse. I've been talking about this in my previous term of office, and I have to move it now. Namely, there is a constant problem, actually, for the purpose of the Senate. The Senate in its time, as we remember, was called for a very specific purpose, namely to control the Sejm dominated by the previous political arrangement. It ended fast. And then for years there was a serious problem, what exactly is the Senate for? Of course, we had a plot like Polonia and Poles abroad, which, unfortunately, for a time, was taken away from us. But it's a good thing she was moved back to the Senate. But that wouldn't be enough, that wouldn't be enough. Well, we started a practice in our previous term of office. This practice was that the Senate in the eyes of millions of Polish citizens became a defender of their rights and became a defender of the law in general. And now these two issues are in Poland, you can say, grown by, roughly speaking, 3 institutions: Constitutional Court, Ombudsman Of course, also by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child And by the Supreme Chamber of Control. All these institutions point to shortcomings, shortcomings, some legal deficiencies that need to be corrected. Some of them should, of course, improve the government, which has the right powers to do so, but some of them should be improved through the Senate initiative. And that's what we started doing in our previous term. Unfortunately, we stopped doing this during this term. We do not comply with the Court's judgments. I'm a member. The Legislative Board, so I know what it looks like. Unfortunately, what is the Court's judgment is the proposal We're not gonna do this, the government's gonna take care of this, someday, maybe six months from now, maybe a year from now, maybe two years from now. There's always a minister who says the government is working on it and so on. I've heard these arguments. And before that, I'm the only one who knows exactly how the government works on cases like this, especially those that he doesn't particularly care about. That's what we did at the time, and that's not what we're doing today. He's an ombudsperson. It's a mine. The 600 pages that you wrote and which you electronically, otherwise it would not have been possible, gave us. There is a great deal of information about which laws are bad, that there are no regulations, lower-ranking acts, what areas are ignored because there is no right at all in this regard. And it is asked that in the Senate the relevant committees review it and follow up with legislative initiatives. And then, by pursuing one of the goals The one suggested by the Court, sometimes by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which also points to legal shortcomings, or by the Ombudsman, the Senate is beginning to take shape. She's starting to be a needy House. The House, which we senators can present... which can be presented by the Senate Marshal at press conferences that we senators can present in the field. And we can tell you why we're here, that we're doing this, that we're doing this, that we're doing this... that the Sejm can't do, ladies and gentlemen. Because we're not doing this completely, then, well, I'm taking this opportunity to remind you again, because today... today, ladies and gentlemen, it depends primarily on the senate majority, whether she will take it and not only will she be a quite mechanical executioner of orders that come from above, but in this area will maintain some autonomy. By the way, This is for the benefit of any authority. For the benefit of each authority and also for a specific political agreement, because people evaluate the political agreement after how it fully meets their needs and expectations. And then those who rule gain from it. One can say that I, being opposed to the current government, should not actually be interested in it, but I am, because I think it builds our system for many years, no matter who will rule. If we don't, ladies and gentlemen, we're just sawing the branch we're sitting on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u137	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, because Senator Silence has come forward to discuss... [[Quiet.]] ...Quiet, sorry, I'm now announcing an hour's break, as requested by the Civic Platform. We're not gonna make it before recess... [[I withdraw my motion.]] [[I'm resigning to protocol...]] Okay, then I'll try to finish this point. Would the Ombudsman, Mr Adam Bodnar, like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[No...]] [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Would you agree to a minute?]] [[Yes.]] If a minute, yes, if longer, I'll announce a break. [[One and a half.]] I don't want the Minister to wait an hour, but it's only with your permission... [[Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u138	Dear Marshal, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, Thank you very much for these speeches, very deep and pointing to many different issues. I promised I'd have a minute, 50 seconds left... Two lines. I believe that human rights inflation is detrimental when there are no mechanisms that effectively protect human rights at the same time. And I really see that this inflation is causing problems later with the belief that something is part of the standard, because the more standards we create, the more collisions occur between them. If we invest more in the right to privacy, there is a conflict with access to public information if we invest more in protection against discrimination, it is a conflict with other values... Maybe I could send my paper to the senator on similar subjects, and I'd like to share it with you. I would like to point out one very important thing that refers to what Senator Borowski said. For those who are victims of human rights violations, the fact that they can come to the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, they can say about their problem, they can present what this problem is and that it needs to be resolved is the highest form of recognition of them as citizens who point out that something needs to be solved. And we've had this one experience with insurance guarantee fund compensation. You're on your own, aren't you? They don't even imagine how this person waited to finally have this problem that she wakes up and goes to sleep with every day, she could tell the senators, and how important it was that they committed themselves to doing it. So that I strongly encourage you to engage in the recognition and activation of the entire Senate in this way in terms of defending the rights and freedoms of the individual. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u139	Thank you very much. I thank the Ombudsman, Adam Bodnar, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate has read about the Ombudsman's 2015 activities and the state of compliance with human and citizen freedoms and rights. Am I declaring a recess... at 18? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] 6:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 04 to 18 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u140	I'm reopening the session. Senators, please take your seats. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act amending the Law If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. High Izbo, on 6 October 2016, the Senate dismissed Marek Chrzanowski from being a member of the Monetary Policy Council. It is therefore necessary for the Senate to appoint a new member of the Council. Pursuant to the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the composition of the board is completed no later than 3 months after the appeal. I would like to inform you that the following candidates have been submitted: Mr Marek Dąbrowski and Mr Rafał Sura. The CVs of the candidates are included in print No 314. The examination procedure, as set out in the Act on the Protection of Confidential Information, has been completed in respect of the candidates submitted. The proposals concerning the applications submitted to the Senate Marshals were addressed to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The committee's report is contained in print No 314 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to speak and to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate Marshal sent a proposal to our committee on 26 October regarding candidates for membership of the Monetary Policy Council. The Commission met at its fifty-sixth meeting on 15 November and prepared an opinion, which is contained in print No 314 O. The Commission, after hearing the candidates for membership of the Monetary Policy Council, concluded that the candidates had been submitted correctly. At the same time, the Commission gave a positive opinion on both of the candidates for the Monetary Policy Council and presented a list of candidates to the High Senate. So I'm asking the High Senate to make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u142	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Thank you very much.]] Before adopting a resolution on the appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council, the Senate may call on candidates to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Mark Dąbrowski a question? [[Thank you.]] President Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u143	I'd like to hear from you, Dr. Hab. Mark Dąbrowski brief information about what has changed in his life since he was presented as a candidate by the Civic Platform club for the first time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u144	You can answer that, sir. Yeah, maybe it's from the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I had the pleasure of standing here already in January this year, I met with you already then. At the time I was, you might say, a newly baked doctor in the field of economics. My discipline is economics. Since then, I have been promoted to the position of professor of extraordinary my home university, the University of Economics in Cracow, and since September this year I have been head of the Department of Macroeconomics at this university. [[Sure.]] [[It's in the papers.]] So much for promotions, changes. I'm not gonna talk about publications or anything else, because it's in the file. [[Yeah, in the file.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u146	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! Professor! As the committee's deliberations lasted for quite a long time, Mr President, due to a lack of time, limited the guests' speeches. If you don't mind, I'll speak on behalf of the guests that Senator Kleina and I promised we'd ask both candidates their questions. I will ask these questions on behalf of the Im Foundation. Stefan Batory and the Polish Economic Society and in our own name. Here are the two questions. In different countries, various monetary policy and construction solutions are used... Do there exist in the world monetary policy tools or organisational and legal solutions for monetary policy or bodies determining monetary policy, which are not in Poland and which would be worth introducing? Do such instruments exist? [[Slow down, slow down.]] And second question. Gentlemen, I'm sure you've been watching for a year what's going on in the framework of the Monetary Policy Council. The question is: can we compare the functioning of the Monetary Policy Council from the previous and current term, and do you think there have been any significant changes here? Of course, we rely on documents that were available in public space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u148	Then I'll answer the first question first. As far as monetary policy is concerned, Poland has good institutional and legal solutions in my opinion. There is an independent central bank, there are members of the Monetary Policy Council who enjoy independence and the objective of the central bank and the tasks of the members of the Monetary Policy Council are clearly defined. The central bank can define what price stability means. Our inflation target is similar to that applied in other European countries, as well as in non-European countries, e.g. in New Zealand, which also applies a direct inflation target strategy. In my opinion, it would be worth considering a change in the functioning of the Monetary Policy Council. It so happens that at one time almost all members of the Monetary Policy Council are exchanged, which makes the continuity of monetary policy not necessarily maintained. Perhaps it would be advisable to consider that the terms of office of the members of the Monetary Policy Council should be discussed in some way. I don't know, maybe. The Sejm could elect members of the Monetary Policy Council for 2 years, the Senate for example. for 4 years, the president points to 6 years, of course during the transition period, so that these changes will then take place in a way, you can say, asynchronous. This would ensure, seems, greater stability of monetary policy and would not be the period of uncertainty in the financial markets pending what another Monetary Policy Council could do. Here I am going to answer the second question that the senator was gracious to ask on behalf of the Foundation for them. Stefan Batory and the Polish Economic Society. Well, the current Monetary Policy Council uses Wait and See policy, which is the policy of waiting and observing what is happening in the Polish economy. It does not appear that the actions of the current Council can be compared with those of the previous Council on the basis that monetary policy is lagging behind, but that decisions taken by the Monetary Policy Council have an impact on the economy at the earliest 4 quarters. Because the current Monetary Policy Council in most cases, because, in fact, with the exception of two people, was set up at the beginning of the year, it is too early to talk about the effects of the current Council. What we have now, I would rather refer to as the result of the previous Monetary Policy Council's decision. It seems to me that the current advice, if I were to judge, without comparing, because, as I said, This cannot be done, it is leading a reasonable, prudent monetary policy for the time being, because indeed, during the period we now have, such uncertainty in the world economy, the policy of careful expectation is probably the best solution. Nevertheless, I agree that it is necessary to try on interest rate increases, but probably at the end of next year, so here is my position not particularly differs from the position expressed by Mr Glapiński. Monetary policy, a good monetary policy, is a boring monetary policy, which is the one where it yawns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u149	Thank you very much. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u150	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to say that Senator Czarnobaj is trying to introduce such a new custom in the Senate, namely that when he asks questions, he asks questions not his own, but some institution. I think it's a bad habit, it's not in accordance with the rules. In the rules... Mr. Marshal, don't laugh. After all, it is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that these are senators' questions, so there is no need to refer to any institutions. I think it's a bad habit, and I don't encourage you to continue this habit. And since we're here to ask questions, I'm obliged to ask the professor a question. We all know that the main activity of the board, at least in social or media terms, is to set interest rates. What other tasks fall within the scope of the Monetary Policy Council? I'd ask you to brief us on that. [[Candidate for Member of the Monetary Policy Council Marek Dąbrowski: I understand that I can answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u151	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u152	The tasks before the Monetary Policy Council are specified in the Act on the National Bank of Poland. And as the senator rightly pointed out, indeed, the basic instrument in monetary policy is the fixing of the interest rate. It is not only the reference rate, i.e. the profitability of 7-day cash vouchers, but also the pawn shop loan rate, the deposit rate. So this is a set of interest rates, because the interest rates set by the central bank are to set a corridor for the market interest rate. The central bank focuses here on the so-called. Polonia's foot, she's in his interest. And in this respect, we do not deviate from other central banks or the European Central Bank or the Federal Reserve System in the United States. When it comes to other instruments, at your disposal... In this instrument arsenal, the Monetary Policy Council also has the minimum reserve rate as well as the interest rate of the reserve. However, looking at what was happening in monetary policy, it must be acknowledged that this instrument was not used very often. It was used during the financial crisis, when this rate was reduced to 3%, at present it is at 3.5%. The Monetary Policy Council may also establish the principle of open market operations, i.e., a technical way of influencing interest rates, on market interest rates. Well, the idea here is that the central bank decides that the interest rate, this reference rate, is, let's say, at 1.5%. , like today, but then you have to market interest rates to this rate in some way. And that's what open market operations have been for years... currently selling cash vouchers. According to Art. There are 12 other tasks facing the Monetary Policy Council. They concern the approval of the financial plan, the NBP activity reports, which are then presented e.g. in the Sejm or the adoption of the annual accounts. It is so important that in this report is already clearly defined the profit that will generate or generate the National Bank of Poland, e.g. Last year it was over PLN 8 billion and 95% of this profit goes to the budget. Here, too, there is a connection with budgetary policy. Because these revenues, in fact this profit, the amount of this payment due to the profit of the National Bank of Poland cannot be predicted. In 2015, it was about 8 billion, a little less, because the central bank left 5% to increase the reserve fund, but e.g. in the previous 2 years this deposit was 0 PLN. This implies that the Central Bank is obliged to set up a reserve to cover the risk of exchange rate changes. So this deposit might be, it might not be. I The Monetary Policy Council also sets the upper limits for the commitments arising from the NBP's borrowing of loans and loans in foreign institutions. In addition, of course, the central bank has the option of granting a refinancing loan, i.e. a loan that allows commercial banks to regain liquidity, as well as fulfilling the obligation to maintain a certain amount of cash in their assets. It is not that this obligation is checked every day, this cash reserve must be kept on average a month at a certain level set by the Monetary Policy Council. Here the central bank has the possibility to influence this kind of reserve. In addition, the Council of Ministers shall, in agreement with the Monetary Policy Council, lay down the rules for determining the exchange rate of the gold. It also sets out monetary policy. Thus, the range of instruments available to the Monetary Policy Council is indeed quite broad. In monetary policy assumptions actually for each year, the Monetary Policy Council keeps reminding that it has the right to use currency interventions, i.e. it can interfere in the currency market, it can intervene, most often for this purpose, so that, as has been the case for example. In 2011, limit the volatility of the exchange rate and thus make the market more stable. There are other, smaller, maybe not less important, but less frequently used instruments, such as: short-term credit to the National Credit and Savings and Banking Fund, etc. Well, there's also a discount option, a rediscons of notes. But these are already details that are not particularly important for monetary policy, as for example. deposit-credit operations. The most important instrument, and this emphasizes the Council, is the interest rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u153	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u154	Mr. Marshal, I'd just like to explain to Senator Wind... [[I think I'm gonna ask you a question.]] Due to the late time and respect for the professorship title, Professor, I will not comment on this wonderful performance. I just want to say it again. Maybe it didn't happen, so I want to repeat it again. I ask this question on behalf of Senator Kleina, myself and the Polish Economic Society and Stefan Batory Foundation. If, Mr. Marshal, I have broken the rules at this moment, then as a beginner, I am very sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I'd like to get to the Professor's question... [[But...]] No, you don't have to comment anymore. I know what you're gonna say. [[Yeah, well, you can, and we can't.]] You can. I mean, I... [[Oh, yeah, of course, you always could.]] Robert, I'm kidding, yeah. May I speak to the Professor... [[There you go.]] Professor... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Professor, I'm going to ask you a quick question. I apologize for repeating myself, but during a rather interesting discussion, I think, during the meeting of the budget committee, it is a pity that there was no time for further discussion. The professor calculated, so quickly, on his fingers, if you believe that the income of the state budget will fall if the gross domestic product decreases by 0.5%. I have some doubts that I remember correctly. If the Professor could repeat this, it would be information for us on how to understand revenue depending on the size of the gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u155	Mr. Marshal, about the corrigendum. Because I've been mentioned here, I'd like to comment on that. First of all, I don't think waving my hand towards me was very elegant. And I would like to point out that in my speech, I didn't say that you broke the rules, but that you are introducing a custom that hasn't been there so far, and that I don't think it's a good habit. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u156	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u157	Please remind Senator Wind that, as a senator, he is not entitled to comment on other senators' speeches. [[And Mr. Marshal has done so many times himself.]] If you want to comment, sign up. [[And in what mode are you a marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u158	Mr. Marshal, but now... [[In formal mode.]] ...but now you're commenting on Senator Wind's speech. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u159	I would therefore like to return to our discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. We said, among other things. on budgetary policy, on the link between monetary policy and budgetary policy, and then I referred to empirical research carried out by the OECD, which shows that there is a link between economic growth and the budget deficit. And it's probably obvious, but these tests go a little further, because they show from the quantitative point of view what this relationship looks like. In short, the conclusion is that if economic growth is reduced by one percentage point, e.g. of 3.5% falls to 2.5%, then the average budget deficit increases by 0.5% GDP. In the case of Poland, as GDP is less than 2 trillion PLN, these 0,5% GDP would be about PLN 10 billion. Once again: a reduction in economic growth by 1 percentage point leads, on average, to an increase in the budget deficit by PLN 10 billion. And this is not the result of bad fiscal policy at a time when economic growth is decreasing. This is a natural effect resulting from the economic cycle phase. Rulers should be aware of this. I assume they're probably aware, and there's some kind of reserve for a negative scenario in the world economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u160	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Professor. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Rafał Sura a question? Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u161	In my initial statement, I asked you to answer two questions on behalf of Senator Kleina and the other company, and mine. [[They're the same questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u162	Have you heard these questions? Yes? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by answering the second question, because in this case, my speech will be shorter. As regards the compilation, the attempt to compare the activities of the previous and current Monetary Policy Council, this is, above all, difficult for two reasons. Firstly, the current Council acts in a different context than the Council of the previous term of office. At that time there was another internal and external environment, and therefore a simple attempt to compare is undoubtedly difficult. Second, the operating period... That's a different perspective. Here is less than a year of operation, there we had a full term. The only thing that can be said here is that there is little so-called in the actions and in the previous, and in the current council. Doctrinalism, and much listening to market data, analysis of reports by the Economic Institute, the National Bank of Poland, as well as data from the European Central Bank. It is only on this basis that analyses and possible decisions are carried out. In short, this policy is of the utmost support. When it comes to the first question, I'd like to answer it this way. Generally, monetary policy tools can be divided into conventional and unconventional tools. The conventional tools were kindly mentioned by Professor Dąbrowski. They come directly from the provisions of the Act of 29 August 1997 on the National Bank of Poland. But there are a number of possibilities so-called. non-conventional action. In the European Union, such activities are undertaken by the various central banks, as well as by the European Central Bank within the framework of the so-called. quantitative relaxation. Let me just remind you that not long ago there was an interesting discussion in Europe and Poland about the ability of central banks to buy back debt securities on the secondary market. This discussion has been going on for a long time. At the request of the Bundesbank, the European Court of Justice decided on this issue. It is decided in plus, this possibility is allowed. And the question arises as to whether it would be appropriate in Poland. Of course I do. Of course it would be reasonable, but only in an emergency situation. Thank God, we don't have to... Of course, times could be better, but they're not the worst. They are generally calm when it comes to the economy, and there is no need to do so. But if necessary, it is absolutely desirable. If you don't mind, I'd like to make another point. The Hungarian central bank used a mechanism under this quantitative loosening policy to lend to commercial banks on very preferential terms, so that these banks would lend to businesses, but provided that the interest rate would not exceed 2%. In short, it was a pro-development impulse, a demand. To conclude, I'm gonna say this. For the time being, there is no need for the central bank to reach this kind of facility, but if - Knock on wood. - Knock on wood. This is a necessity, and it is necessary to reach for these instruments as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u164	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, gentlemen. We are voting on the appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by a secret absolute majority vote in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To conduct a secret vote, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Mark Pęk. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The card can be placed next to at least one name. The card on which more than one mark is placed will be treated as a void voice. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. The ballot card shall be valid if one mark is placed on the "x' mark if no mark on the "x' mark has been affixed. The senator may abstain or be against all candidates. Then he leaves the card empty and doesn't put any mark on it. Leaving an empty grille with a given name means objecting or abstaining from voting on a particular candidacy. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Give me one.]] [[Voice from the room: Anyone else?]] [[Anyone else not here?]] [[Did everyone get the cards?]] Did all the senators receive the ballots? I ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski to read the names of the senators in turn. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to put in the ballot box filled with secret ballots.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u165	Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik, Anna Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u166	Have all the senators voted? [[Senator Dobrzyński.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Have all the senators voted? Thank you. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering an adjournment until 6:47 p.m. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 37 to 18 minutes 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u167	I'm reopening the session. We return to agenda item 16: appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. The minutes of the secret ballot of 16 November 2016 on the appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a secret ballot Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Jerzy Wcisła They state that a secret vote on the appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council casts 70 votes, including important votes. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 36. 23 senators voted in favour of Marek Andrzej Dąbrowski's candidacy and 46 senators voted in favour of Rafał Bogumił Sura's candidacy. The absolute number of votes required was received by Mr Rafał Bogumił Sura. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. The Senate appointed Mr Rafał Bogumil Sura as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. [[Applause]] I ask the Senate appointed member of the Monetary Policy Council to approach the Presidency table. [[Everybody up.]] I would like to give you a resolution, and then you will be kind enough to take an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Do you mind if I sit down?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, it's not. I mean, you can, but we're gonna have to get up in a minute. In accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland, the members of the Council shall take an oath before the appointing authority before taking up their duties in the Council. An oath can be made with the addition of the words "So help me God." Everyone, please rise. And I ask you to read the oath.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u168	As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u169	Thank you very much. I state that a member of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Senate has taken an oath in accordance with the Act on the National Bank of Poland. Once again, I congratulate the professor on his appointment as a member of the Monetary Policy Council and I wish him many successes in further work. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. The text of the Act is contained in print No 306 and the committee report In print No 306 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of the Committee on Agriculture... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and Rural Development submit a report on the meeting held on 21 October 2016 on the Act amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals. No legislative proposals were submitted during the meeting, and therefore the High The Commission unanimously adopted After consideration of the Law adopted by the Sejm on 21 October 2016 amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law without amendments. I ask the High House to support me. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, there are 8 such points that were mentioned on the occasion of this law. I'll say that, among other things. It goes to farmers who have had problems clearing up or completing certain formalities that resulted in... Before that was the amount of 15 thousand, now it is 40,000 PLN. And there are also those things that result from the lack of culpability. The point is that these debts can be remitted. And if the costs that would result were higher than the possibility of downloading... That's when you don't do things like that. Because it's a waste of budget costs if you can't get anything off. So much for the main things that are here. If there's any questions... And I think the rest of you will see to it. Thank you very much, and I would like your support.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u171	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, Senator rapporteur, I have a question about one of the elements of the proposed law, i.e. a record allowing the head of the restructuring agency's business unit to be authorised at the level of the district office or regional branch of employees of other organisational cells, i.e. other district offices or regional branches, to issue decisions, provisions and certificates in administrative proceedings. Was that the subject of a committee meeting? Or did the minister explain that question? What is the reason for this? Some concerns arose from the employees of the restructuring agency that the employees did not fully know In view of the agency's specific organisational structure, since the start of the organisational structure They do not really know why such solutions are proposed in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u173	Indeed, one of the tasks that have been put in place is the possibility for the head of an organisational unit of another entity to authorise the matter to be dealt with on its behalf, and in particular to issue administrative decisions, provisions and certificates. Those are the decisions that have been made. This was justified and the Ministry presented such a position. Therefore, as far as more detailed information is concerned, ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u174	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes, sir.]] You're welcome. You are the Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Zarudzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you for the opportunity to proceed and present as briefly as possible related matters... I will also refer to the question that has been asked. The Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture introduces a number of major changes aimed, firstly, at setting up head offices or head of a regional branch where a particular type of task has been accumulated, the possibility of benefiting from the assistance of employees employed in another district office or regional branch carrying out similar tasks, which may at the same time assist other offices or branches in the execution of their sentences. This is because we are launching the Rural Development Programme. This year is the year of start-up of the whole programme for the years 2014 and 2020. There'll be a few more activities next year. It seems reasonable that when direct payments accumulate on the one hand and the implementation of actions related to the second pillar, the offices are able to support each other in terms of staff support on the other. Because we are rationalising employment and we want to be effective, and above all we want farmers to receive quality finance quickly and efficiently. Second As the rapporteur has already presented, Senator Chróścikowski was raised from PLN 15 000 to PLN 40,000 above which the approval of the Minister of Finance is required to redeem the claim. Thirdly, the amendment allows the President of the restructuring agency to write off its claims ex officio where no debt has been recovered as a result of winding-up or insolvency proceedings carried out and where there is a reasonable presumption that enforcement proceedings will not obtain an amount higher than the costs of the investigation and enforcement of claims by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, or where enforcement proceedings have proved ineffective. To answer... These are the three basic conditions of this law: efficiency, organisational changes, effectiveness of spending and launching the Rural Development Programme. As far as clearances are concerned, of course, there is a consequence. If other offices are being used, it must also be possible for other managers or other employees to issue authorisations. That's one thing. The second reference is that an authorised person must be qualified anyway, must pass appropriate examinations to meet all requirements. So there's no danger. There are internal procedures that guarantee the quality of workers' work. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u176	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for answering that question. But I can honestly say that this answer is not entirely satisfactory for me. This argument doesn't exactly appeal to me because, as far as I'm concerned, I think I have some pretty good news. At regional level, employment has been carried out. How's it going in practice? Minister, I'd like an explanation, a confirmation later. It seems that there are county offices of restructuring agencies that are notoriously unable to cope with the tasks imposed on them. There are offices that expect help from other county offices. I say this from an autopsy because I was an employee of a restructuring agency at the level of the county office for six years, and I was also an authority issuing administrative decisions. And I'm a little surprised. I'll tell you what. That such shifts and solutions are proposed in the bill, because this will not solve the problem. The county offices, which were weak, will continue to be weak, and those who work well and develop their standards will work for other county offices. That's how it's gonna be in practice. I'd ask you to respond to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I was the director of the Pomeranian branch of the regional restructuring agency twice, so I know the county offices well, I also controlled them, and I was also an employee of the advisory centre. So I've known it since the backstage. Well, what do you want me to say? Absolutely... Well, we know the employees are different, but the quality of work, just like everywhere... Yes? This isn't a high-quality job, it's a support and watch job... here's the premise of this... Well, like everywhere, in every workplace, there are different people, if they don't meet the criteria, then either let them go to training or they're fired. But we do know, Mr. Senator, what it looks like in the agency, what the procedure is in this job, how many trainings it takes to become an employee, a specialist. I won't mention how many exams The head of the county office must pass from 15 to 16 years. And if he doesn't go through these procedures... And these are e-learnings, and if he doesn't... Well, you know that if someone like that doesn't go through these e-learnings, it means he's not fit and needs to be changed. And when it comes to loads, I think it's more important... Now this quality work in county offices is associated with this uneven burden. We're moving some activities from county offices to headquarters. As is the case with the law that we are about to process in the Senate, the Rural Development Act... Well, the young farmer's programme goes to headquarters, and the restructuring of small farms goes to headquarters to relieve the burden on the county offices. That's first of all. Secondly, this quality work is continuous, the quality of the work of advisors, the quality of the work of specialists in district offices is improving, and where it is inadequate, these are the appropriate services in the department. You yourself know the systems of improvement, education and the whole education system in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The restructuring agency is also an institution that is checked and the best result is how the funds are spent. We want farmers to receive them even faster and more effectively, so that without any delay and on time it is time to make decisions. Well, it's kind of a basic thing. To be honest, I don't know what else to say, explaining this case. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u179	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u180	Minister, in the same spirit... Because the culmination of the subsidies, what you said, the RDP, means the tasks that are in all the county offices. And I'm sure that's what a good work organization is for. In addition, I can't imagine that the head of one district office entitles a staff member of another office to make decisions. Well, it's probably possible, but... My question is what it would look like technically. I'm aware of that. 'Cause I made the administrative decisions myself. What documents are needed for this, and I don't really understand how you can on behalf of... Take, for example, an example of the county office. The fact that in one district they will make decisions about another county. What's it gonna look like technically? That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u181	I think it's as simple as possible when it comes to transmission and service. If there's excess, excess... First of all, here's what I'm going to say: there's a certain preventive action, which is one that's supposed to protect, if we have... Here we also need to look at the number of farmers, the number of applications that are... We know that there are voivodships in which there are 30,000 farmers, but there are also voivodships such as Lubelskie, where there are 120 or 160 000 farmers. Thus, the burden on county offices sometimes results from inadequate handling to the number of applications. And then Oh, my God. Then we take a pool of proposals for e.g. direct payments with proper records and archive it, collect and transport it to the second county office, all in accordance with the procedures that apply, and there it is accepted into the state and then distributed and processed. E.g. all administrative control of payment applications, for example payment applications. We are also talking about other activities, about the fact that if it is so that the county offices will only deal with applications for payments and will be adopted others... I also understand that there will be other measures taken in the county offices, from the second pillar of the RDP, and this burden may be that there will be a lot of work on issuing administrative decisions related to payments. Then these offices will not do these other activities, they will not judge the conclusions, only this will be passed on to another district office. It will be collected, transported and archived there. And the decisions will be made, in the simplest possible organizationally, so as not to accumulate the work and not to accumulate the arrears. I'm not from accounting, from handing over documents, but these procedures are clear to me: it's moving to the other one and it's happening where there's too much labour, so the workers don't have to move. It is easier to deliver proposals that should be considered. It does not necessarily have to be proposals for direct payments, but there may be a lot of proposals for organic farming, agri-environmental programmes, agri-environment-climate programmes. It's hard to say. Now a new period has begun, farmers systematically submit applications, so each year will also create, in particular under the second pillar, certain burdens on the county offices. We need to protect ourselves from this. Let's be smart before, not after. That's what this bill is for.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u182	Thank you. Mr. Senator Grabowski... Not yet. Once again, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u183	Again, Minister, I'm just giving you a hint. But isn't it easier to put up a delegation so that an employee goes to this office rather than transport and risk not getting something? I don't know, you have to cover the documents, because these are documents, and things... I don't want to tell you what might happen on the way. Therefore, I ask whether it would be easier to do the opposite, to send an employee, to post him for this time, for two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u184	Mr. Senator, thank you very much, that's a good point, but life is different. If these are neighboring offices, e.g. Sztum and Malbork Senator Czarnobaj isn't here. We know this is a distance of 20 km, so there's no problem, absolutely. But if it were Sztum and Słupsk, and every day 150 km... No. It is simply about rationalising these services. And when it comes to carrying documentation, of course there's a risk, but we've been practicing it. In previous years, some of the applications were brought to other voivodships, other parts of the country, to develop them. Sometimes you'd come up with conclusions that were... It was necessary to rewrite proposals that were not subject to further investigation, but had to be physically evaluated, and they were still not financed. So we have enough experience here to do it professionally. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u185	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Mikołajczyk made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. The text of the Act is contained in print 307 and the report of the Committee in print 307 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the committee on amending the Act on payments under direct support schemes, Senate printing No 307. The draft law provides for amendments to the Act of 5 February 2015 on payments under direct support schemes. The most important changes arise, firstly, from the need to amend production-related support instruments in view of the experience gained from the first years of application of the new direct support scheme; secondly, the need to adapt the conditions for granting production-related payments in the sugar beet sector to the changed legal conditions of the Union is to abolish the quota for sugar production from 1 October 2017. The production-related payment solutions contained in the draft law were notified by Poland to the European Commission on 1 August 2016. The production-related payments applied in Poland in 2015 and 2016 were assessed by the European Commission, which raised objections to some of them and the above amendments were therefore notified for 2017 and 2020. In place of existing payments to protein crops, it is proposed to introduce 2 separate forms of support in 2 sub-sectors: sub-sector 1 - payments to grain legumes, sub-sector 2 - payments to fodder plants. They aim to improve the use of support potential in the protein crops sector as an instrument for building a more competitive raw material base for feed production. The changes made take into account both the need to ensure national production of plant protein for feed and to better target support taking into account the use of protein crops. The first sub-sector is intended to be of greater importance in the commodity production of raw materials for the production of feed. The second sub-sector, on the other hand, will to a large extent be a source of self-supply of farm production, for the production of bulk feed, mainly green fodder, for the farm's own purposes. Since both sub-sectors are intended to be directed towards the supply of raw material for the production of feed, a condition for harvesting grain in sub-sector 1 has been introduced, the cultivation for green fertiliser in sub-sector 2 has been excluded from support. The list of plant species supported by sub-sectors will be set out in the Regulation on the detailed conditions and modalities for granting direct payments and non-smoking payments issued on the basis of the amended Article. 34 Payment Act. The first sub-sector will cover the cultivation of the most important legumes, which are important as a component for the production of feed, sharps, i.e. Beaver, fodder pea, white husk, narrow-leaf husk, yellow husk and common soya. The second sub-sector will cover the cultivation of esparcetes, clovers, cognacs, lupus, lucerne, nostrils, seradels and vetches, i.e. the cultivation of all other plants previously supported by payment for protein crops. The second sub-sector sets a limit on the area of cultivation on the holding to which payment may be granted shall be 75 ha. In the first sub-sector, however, payment rates are planned to vary depending on the area of the crop on the holding eligible for that payment. Payment will be degressive, i.e. the higher rate will be applied to the first 75 hectares of farming on the holding and the excess area above this threshold will be covered by a lower amount, i.e. 50%. As a result, the average level of support per hectare of crops on large-scale farms will be lower. This approach is justified, in particular because these farms benefit more from the scale of production and therefore do not require support at a similar level. No limit on the area of cultivation on the holding to which payment may be granted under the first sub-sector is planned only a progressive rate of payment The aim is to improve the alignment of grain supply structure with the demand structure of feed production plants. The processing industry claims the demand for large, uniform parts of the raw material, while the production of grain of legumes is strongly fragmented in Poland. Change of mouth. Article 1 15 and points 3 and 4 of Article. In paragraph 34, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 The Payment Act results not only from changes in the rules for granting support in the protein crops sector, but also from the planned departure from support for raspberries as part of coupled support. The continuation of support in this respect is not justified in the light of Union legislation. Currently we are the largest producer of raspberries not only in Europe, but also in the world. Taking into account that in accordance with the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 3 of Regulation No 1307/2013 production-related support may be granted only to those sectors of agricultural production which are of particular importance for economic, social or environmental reasons and are in a difficult situation, pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5 ww. Regulation, production-related support can only be granted to the extent necessary to provide incentives to maintain current production levels in the sectors concerned It is proposed to move away from supporting raspberries in production-related payments rather than causing their growth. A third of the subsidies for tomatoes are reduced. Amendment proposed in Article 1 point (1) (a) ♪ is a consequence of new legal conditions at EU level This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment is to depart from the principle of granting production-related payments in the sugar beet sector only to the areas from which quota beet comes. The proposed provisions provide that support will be granted to the total area of sugar beet covered by the contract. This makes it possible to conclude a contract with a producer group, a producer organisation or an association of producer organisations. This has to do with the departure from sugar quota since 2017 throughout the European Union. Amendment proposed in Article 1 point (2) (a) is the reduction of the limit on animals on the holding which may be subject to payment in the bovine sector and in the cow sector from 30 to 20 units. In the young bovine sector, there has been a systematic increase in the population during the 2014/2016 period, indicating too much incentives in the form of payments to date or that there have been new circumstances limiting the risk of disappearance or reduction of production. It is therefore proposed to reduce to 20 the limit on the number of animals on the holding that may be subject to payment. This will ensure that support is targeted only at those holdings where, despite the overall growth of the population in this sector A downward trend is observed. Similarly, in the cow sector, there is a systematic, although not as large as in the cattle sector, increase in population in the 2013/2016 period. In order to minimise the risk of a further increase in the number of cows in the population supported by this form of payment, it is proposed to reduce the limit on the number of cows on the holding that may be covered by the payment to 20 units. Change proposed... The increase in support is estimated to cover 80% farmers holding 50% national herd of young bovine animals and 80% farmers with about 40% the national stock of bovine animals, with support for those farmers with a systematic decrease since 2009. Amendment proposed in Article 1 point (2) (a) b consists of a change in the retention period of sheep from the present period, covering the date of application and the period from 20 October to 20 November of the year of application, for the period from 15 March to 15 April of the year of application. This amendment is intended to facilitate the management of the stock to farmers and is in line with the request of the trade union organisations. Payments are fully financed by the Union budget and no budgetary implications are foreseen due to the proposed changes. The Commission has adopted a law without amendments and I ask the High House to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u187	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] ...and present the government's position? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I think what you presented to Senator Łyczak was very precise, thank you very much for that. I believe that the most important things, the message and the guiding idea of the law have been passed on. For my part, I will only add that we are amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes. The point is that we should set new direct payments for farmers from 15 March 2017 to ensure that these new rules, which are a little forced by the European Commission, due to this, once again, that production-related support can only be granted for those animals and plants that are in difficulty during the reference period... This reference period is from 2009 to 2013 and these payments cannot stimulate the growth of production. Because we've been found to be a little disturbed by this market, there's stimulation, we're smart again. to the detriment of the fact that, after the entire farmer's campaign, payment applications do not need to be recovered, i.e. the funds unduly collected... It's like the first message. The second information, about what we've already said, the indications to which plants... Let me remind you that to a larger group of plants there are subsidies related to production. We're talking cattle, cows, protein crops, sugar beets, tomatoes and soft fruit. I'm thinking raspberries. And for each of these elements, we describe why, for what reasons we are making these changes. I can only repeat this, it was precisely by your rapporteur. I have nothing to add here unless there are specific questions. And in order to... Designed changes to the rules for granting direct payments make it necessary to prepare the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture for implementation, for implementation of... Well, the system has to be put in such a way that we can make a new period so that it won't be last minute again, as it used to be... In particular, in view of the need to adapt the IT system for handling payment applications, it is necessary to adopt urgently the proposed legislation in the printing, which has been presented to the senators, in order to allow the necessary time to make the necessary adjustments. That's why I'm asking you to proceed. On my side, that's it. If there are specific questions, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u189	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to the representative of the government on this agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes, sir.]] Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u190	In Opole region in the area of Głubczyc the barn has been closed recently, resulting in thirty-seven people losing their jobs. This involves what was said, i.e. the fact that milk quota was abolished in April last year. Is the proposal to reduce direct payments from 30 to 20 cows, as I heard, a proposal to... Is this our other solution to the quote case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u191	These are completely different payments and this is not the solution to the quote case. These are completely separate things. [[I see.]] There we are talking about regulation of the milk market, the abolition of quotations and consequences, and here we are talking in detail about the increase in cattle population, the population of cows compared to 2009 and 2013. The population has grown, and these payments cannot stimulate production, because naturally... The quotas have been abolished, farmers produce more milk, so it has been concluded that we need to reduce the aid compared to the reference period so that there is no stimulation, otherwise farmers will have to pay back money after receiving the payment. This is the payment mechanism, whether we like it or not. It's just the way he was negotiated, the way he was introduced, and we don't have a maneuver here, so we're looking for... We've been looking for solutions that allow us to keep envelopes so that we don't violate the envelopes, so there's going to be another bit of internal redistribution for... When it comes to this distribution, it's estimated that I have this information. That the increase in support will cover around 80% farmers with 50% national bovine herds and around 50% farmers with 40% the national herd of cows. So that they're always compromises that... I do not want to say that they are rotten, but... this solution will, first and foremost, keep the envelope for farmers, so that the European Commission will not bring us some money to support production. [[Is this the case only for Poland, or do the neighbouring countries introduce the same restrictions?]] These are Polish mechanisms, because in other countries there is a different structure of the population. One could say that the reference mechanism 2009,2013 is preserved in other countries, because these are common rules for all countries of the European Union, but there is a different structure of the population. If it happened somewhere... compared to a year... Let's tell ourselves to which groups of plants and animals are these payments related to production: cattle, cows, sheep, goats, protein crops... [[I mean mostly cows.]] If there's any overproduction here, we're gonna have to lower... Each country has its own reality and then it modifies it. [[Mostly cows, milk, cows.]] Compared to the reference year 2009-2013... This is a mechanism, but in each country it is shaped in a different way, because the structure of the cattle population varies. [[In view of the current situation in the milk market in Poland, do you foresee, in addition to such a movement, which seems to me to be moving the other way, any other corrective action or not?]] The whole mechanism concerns the milk market. We have repeatedly repeated in Brussels the actions that Minister Jurgiel took on the milk market. We are talking openly about 23 agri-food markets in various places outside the European Union, and Minister Bogucki is in China. There was an intervention buy-in consisting of... the milk case moved, these mechanisms functioned. Buy interventional skimmed milk, butter to take off overproduction and sell it when they're bad... Interventions were undertaken with Union support and there were certain withdrawal premiums. Nobody says it's perfect, but the actions were taken and farmers felt it: 60 gr per litre of milk is no longer paid, only 1 PLN 10 gr or 1 PLN 30 gr, more 1 PLN 30 gr. That's the trend. They're going the right way, so to speak. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm interested in raspberries. I'll admit I don't understand something here. We're the biggest raspberry producer in the world. Yes? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] So we're paying off this production, as I understand it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] Then why are you undoing the subsidies? Is this an initiative of the Union, an agency, or some sort of lobbyist environment? Someone has to be the initiator. If we're good at it, if the raspberries are selling. That's how I understand it. This raises the question of who cares.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u194	A good example and a good question. I would like to say that when it comes to production payments, in this case the production of raspberries, this was the reference year. It was established that in 2009 and 2013 it was produced in Poland, let's agree it doesn't have to be actual data. On average, 100 tons of raspberries. And here's the thing: payments take into account a certain amount of aid for an area that produces 100 tonnes of raspberries. Turns out The European Commission is examining the different markets to which aid is granted That in the last year and earlier 150 tons of raspberries were produced in Poland. And the payment mechanism is not about increasing production, it is about keeping it at 100 tonnes. Therefore, we must withdraw. This is how the procedure for direct payments was negotiated in the period 2014 to 2020 and this is how the whole scheme works. And this is how it works: since you produce too much, direct subsidies don't belong to you and you have to take them off in part or in whole. Here, in its entirety, because of its size. Whole month We've been working with the team on this. It's not like we're sitting at a desk and saying, "We're gonna take that much and that's it." We've been collecting statistics all month. The institutes had to provide us with data, and we analyzed them and wondered how we should deal with individual groups that want us to maintain a certain standard. By 30 July, we had to notify this to the European Commission to accept it. It was the whole procedure, so there's no case here. Let me say again: the point was that we did not have to pay back the parts of our direct payments, those related to support, the production.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u195	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 303 and the Commission's reports In print No 303 A and No 303 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 21 October 2016 amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. On 24 October 2016, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 2 November 2016, the Commission requests that the Act be adopted without amendment. The Act introduces three fundamental amendments to the present law. The first amendment aims to increase the amount of income earned by a farmer or a householder under the law to the full extent of the social insurance of farmers who have been covered by the general social security scheme. The Act of 23 October 2014 introduced a limit of no more than half of the minimum wage per job for income. Those provisions shall apply from 1 January 2015. The current amendment to the Act increases the amount of income that can be obtained by the farmer .. or a householder. - up to the minimum wage for work. The second amendment extends the catalogue of persons with whom the employment relationship is based in the KRUS; this applies not only to managers but also to deputies of directors, directors and their deputies in the existing KRUS structures. The third issue concerns the financial economy of the KRUS. The law amends the Article. 83 of the Act on Social Insurance of Farmers, following the Supreme Audit Chamber's recommendation concerning the placement of free funds of the KRUS administrative fund. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. I inform the High House that the Sejm has passed a bill according to the recommendations of the committee. The Act was adopted on 21 October 2016. 397 votes in favour, none against, five abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u197	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Wiesław Kilian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the opinion of the committee on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. Senator Elephant presented the legislative process precisely. I will just add that this is the continuation of the law that was passed under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL. The Commission adopted the proposed law unanimously on 10 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your sanators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u200	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for your rapporteurs, but if they have a problem with the answer, as the issue of insurance is complex and complex for me, I suppose for others too, but perhaps you have more knowledge... Namely, it arises as if a new insurance title, only that in connection with the increase of this amount allowing additional earnings, which obliges, as I understand it, to be paid by the payer or by insured contributions. So the question is whether it will create a new title to obtain a pension in the general system, and if not, how it will be consumed. That's the first question. And second question. The way in which staff are formed in the institutions is extended, let's say, the agricultural market by introducing a simplified principle of appointment instead of establishing an employment relationship. What is the reason for this? What bothered the deputy executives, the directors, or others like them... what prevented them from maintaining their current status?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u201	The matter that Senator Rulewski referred to in his questions goes beyond what was discussed during the committee's meeting, both the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture. The amendment referred to in the Act concerns only the amount of the amount. There was half the minimum wage for work, and now there's going to be a minimum wage for work. This is therefore increased by the missing half of the minimum wage. The entire insurance and income directory has not been changed, but this is where the change took place. As far as the issues mentioned by the senator concerning the second amendment are concerned, only the catalogue is actually extended. This change gives the President the opportunity to appoint managers of field offices and their deputies. Other employees shall be employed on the basis of a contract of employment unless separate provisions require employment on the basis of appointment. The third amendment mentioned in the reports concerns only and only the paragraph that the Minister will be able to locate the free resources of the administrative fund. This fund is derived from deductions from the contribution fund and from the pension fund. He is, this year, as far as I know, over 600 million zlotys. And the change in question is just a change so that the Minister can properly locate the said measures. These 3 amendments include an amendment to the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u203	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was going to ask the Minister this question, but I see that Senator rapporteur Krzysztof Elephant has already raised this issue. I'm talking about this administration fund. Because, as I understand it, this fund has existed so far. What's been going on with these measures so far? These funds are not small, 600 million zlotys. I know there was an NIK report. Was this the subject of a committee meeting, or was it discussed by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u204	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u205	In response to the senator's question, I say, together with my colleague, the agricultural committee's rapporteur, that during the debate we did not go so far into the matter of this change. But, I think, after what the Supreme Audit Chamber has called for in its audit report, the idea is that these measures, which are not very small, are not used once a year... in order to be able to place them, by decision of the Minister, in the right way. As I mentioned, this is a significant amount, because this year, in 2016 it amounts to over 600 million PLN. If the Minister could support us in our response, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u206	Thank you. Are there any other questions for the Senators? No. Thank you very much, senators. The draft law was introduced by Members. Whether a government representative wishes to speak on the bill under consideration. Minister Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The senators of the rapporteur have very competently explained the changes proposed in the parliamentary proposal. I would just like to clarify such nuances or maybe details, which relate primarily to the above mentioned change, i.e. to increase the possibility of earning. This is a change that was advocated by agricultural organisations. Organisations... farmers' representatives even sat on supervisory boards of dairy cooperatives or other economic operators in agriculture. So far, as Senator Elephant mentioned, it has been possible to earn a salary of up to 50% of the lowest salary. Now, thanks to this change, there will be an increase to one lowest salary, so from 1 January 2017 it will be 2 thousand PLN. The form of establishing an employment relationship is an order agreement or agency agreements. And according to the calculations of the KRUS, at the moment this provision will cover about 2 000 500 insured in KRUS, which is 0.17% all covered by this insurance at the end of the first quarter of 2016 This allows, as I mentioned, for these very legal forms to undertake additional earnings. And most importantly, farmers who take this job and earn this income do not fall out of insurance, separate insurance for farmers. As far as the administrative fund is concerned, this change, which was the result of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit proposals, is, as the senator mentioned, an amount exceeding PLN 600 million in the financial year. And from now on, following the entry into force of the Act, the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund will be able to deposit these funds so that they can simply work in the current financial year. The third amendment is only a clarification of the statutory amendment which was introduced by the Polish Sejm on 20 December 2015. It is simply, as the senator mentioned, an extension of the catalogue of working relationship with directors, deputy directors, managers and deputy managers of all organisational cells in the scheme, within the structure of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, of the form of appointment. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There's no government position. The draft was prepared, but as legislative work had already been undertaken by the Polish Sejm, the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers did not adopt a resolution on the position of the government. However, these changes are in line with the view of the Ministry, so that I refer to the High House to pass a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u208	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u209	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! I have such suspicion that every time it comes to personnel matters, the PiS likes to fill in posts on the basis of appointments. You've criticized PSL before for doing that. I just found my own art. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) The President of the Cashier shall appoint and dismiss the head of the organizational cells and their alternates. This was not the case before. This has now been added to the bill. And then we go on. At headquarters, regional branches and field offices, as well as the directors of regional branches and their deputies. Next, field managers and their deputies. That's not in the bill now either. I understand that you wish to employ not only managers, as has been the case so far, but also their deputies in all branches and additionally field managers and their deputies. And I would like to know how many heads of organisational units will be in accordance with this law employed on the basis of appointment rather than employment contracts? About which number of workers employed on the road Are we calling here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned earlier, this catalogue is only a clarification, because the previous law, which was introduced on 20 December 2015, included the wording concerning head offices, field managers and regional branches. And here is a clarification by adding a record of their deputies. There are about 400 such functional posts held by appointment in the entire Social Insurance Agricultural Fund. I am talking about field managers, branch directors, as well as head offices. Plus, there's gonna be about 100 deputies, which means there's gonna be about 100 other people here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u211	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u212	I asked the rapporteurs, but they didn't understand me. I see you understand that perfectly well, but you're just using non-Polish language. The senator's question and mine are: why, as a rule, employment on the basis of the employment relationship is passed on to the appointment principle, i.e. Let's face it. The guys? You're talking about clarification. No. It's about changing the rule. There's gonna be no hiring under an employment contract that should be extended as much as possible, only a guy's gonna choose. It's bad for this institution. That's the first question. Why are you using non-Polish? And what was there to change that? Except maybe what my charge was about, which is guys. Second question. I understand that farmers will be able to earn more than half the lowest wage. Will this be covered by the KRUS system or by the FUS system? And if according to the FUS system, will there be a claim here for retirement in the employee system? We're talking about contracts-orders and agency contracts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator, maybe I'll answer the second question first. By being able to make more money, as the senator here called it, which is by making more money in the amount of one minimum... one lowest wage... It will be subject to universal insurance, i.e. it will be subject to insurance in the Social Insurance Institution. But after retirement age, such a farmer will receive an additional benefit from the Social Insurance Institution. In addition to his pension from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, he will receive additional benefits for those contributions paid to the Social Security Office. To answer the first question, Mr. Senator, this is a parliamentary project. I'm just trying to explain the nuances. And I think I'm also trying to communicate with correct Polish. I specifically indicated how many positions could be affected by this kind of change. As I said, this change was introduced by the Law of the Polish Sejm on 20 December 2015, and here only the clarification of this catalogue in relation to organisational cells, which are, which are, subject to the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. The senator thinks this is the way of guys. I believe that the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund must manage this institution efficiently, and the efficiency of managing this institution is among others. effective management.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u214	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u215	I have a question. Because you say... We're talking about an administrative fund of 600 million. Is that the so-called one? A contribution fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u216	No, it's not a contribution fund. These are two very different things, two different things. The Administrative Fund is a fund that is simply subject to the President and the President collects the budgetary resources contained in the Fund in the performance of his tasks. These are two separate things. [[Does the contribution fund have a separate legal personality?]] The contribution fund is a separate entity subject to the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. At the same time, the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is the management of the farmers' social insurance fund. [[But who runs this fund? Because this is a separate...]] Well, he manages... As I said, the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is at the same time the management for the farmers' social security fund. And at the same time, he performs the tasks of the board of directors in relation to this fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u217	Thank you. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u218	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister, this all seems like chaos. The dream of every ZUS payer is to become a KRUS payer because the Krussian contribution is extremely lower. On the other hand, the NFZ, an organization subordinate to the Minister of Health, says and complains that it still has to pay to these krussian people. And here you can hear that 600 million are going to be located. You don't know why, instead of supporting the treatment system. So that I don't see interministerial coordination in that. But the question is concrete: did you estimate the financial impact of more people staying in KRUS by extending their earnings forks, even though they should have already gone under the wing of the Social Security Office and paid a higher premium?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator has misconceptions. The administrative fund is a fund subject to and managed by the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. This has nothing to do with farmers' social security. This fund is on, among other things. administration of, for example, premises and all kinds of activities of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. This is what this fund is for, so that the budget resources that will be collected in the budget of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund can work. From now on, through the implementation of the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the President will be able to deposit these funds, so he will simply be able to obtain additional funding. [[It is I who understand perfectly, Minister, only that anyway, as I say, the KRUS is an institution to which other resorts I speak here a little as the defender of Minister Radziwiłłła, they add a lot of money. Talking about locating surplus is a little... well, it smells like waste.]] I'll answer very briefly. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the government's position is clear. Keep a separate social security system for farmers and keep the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund unchanged. [[And what about these financial consequences in the relationship of ZUS KRUS? Because those who made no more than half the lowest salary stayed in KRUS. At the moment, those who earn as much as the minimum amount will remain in the CRUS, even though they were previously in the CSO. To put it simply: how much will the U.S.S. lose on this?]] Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the U.S.S. won't lose the slightest amount of it. On the contrary, in view of the increase in wages, the contributions paid to the Social Insurance Institution will increase. These are two very important things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u220	Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u221	Do you believe, Minister, that the principle of equality will be implemented through this change? To resort to the example... the craftsman who works in crafts pays contributions to the Social Security Office. He can work as an employee at the same time, so maybe he can... These contributions are commatized and pension... He can't get two pensions, even though he pays contributions to two payers. He's gonna get one pension. And here it turns out that you can get two pensions: agricultural and employee pensions. This is a violation of the principle of equality. How will you respond to this charge, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u222	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I do not consider this to be any violation of the principle of equality. This is simply the possibility of additional farmers' activities and additional earnings to the value of the lowest salary. From January 1 it will be 2 thousand PLN. The fact that there's a separate social security system for farmers... From this social security scheme for farmers, the farmer will receive a benefit. This is... The system that is in Poland, or this separate system, is not the pattern that we are implementing, I do not know, as the only ones in the world. Such separate social security schemes for farmers are in many countries. In other countries, farmers also have the possibility of additional earnings and additional insurance In the general insurance system. Like I said, the government's position is clear. To maintain a separate social security system for farmers. In view of the demands of agricultural organisations, we raise the amount that can be obtained from an additional source of earnings up to the amount of the minimum wage. This doesn't interfere with the system in any way... Mr. Senator, I don't know if you'd like to go after work for at least 30 years in agriculture... By the end of this year, we are talking about the age of 60 and the age of 55 for men. People of this age do not have a retirement age These persons are granted only and exclusively the right to a pension. The previous government, by raising the retirement age, raised this age for farmers to 67 years, i.e. for women of 12 years old and men of 7 years old. It is only after this age that farmers will, first, have a retirement age, second, that they will receive pension benefits. The average pension benefit for farmers over 30 years of employment shall not exceed PLN 1 000. I think that if the farmer has the possibility of additional earnings and thus additional insurance . in the Department Social insurance And to obtain an additional benefit, this will largely meet far-reaching social expectations. [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u223	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u224	I was misunderstood... Because the Minister pointed out the differences that were detrimental to the agricultural system. The average worker pays 35% of his income to the ZUS and the farmer does not pay even 10%. It's not true how you say he's working. He's a businessman. Only an employee who has an employment contract works.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u225	Thank you. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u226	Minister, is it true that farmers who have additional income from work and pay contributions to the Social Security Office... Are they included or are they not included in the CRUS contribution periods? If not And I think that's the way it is. Is this the date of birth after 1948 allowed to use the second system? So it's compensated for by the fact that a worker who works and has contribution years in KRUS is one of those years as a component and doesn't count the other way. And is it true that in this system only this compensation is an expression of compensatory solidarity, that compared with employees...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u227	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! High Senate! You yourself have responded very effectively to that question. [[But I asked.]] I'm just saying yes, and I'm not going to discuss it any further.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u228	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After reading the draft amendments in the bill, after the Minister's explanation, which you have presented here... I was just here reading what this article looked like. 60 so far, so far, and what he looks like after the shift. It was indeed, as the Minister said, so that I think in December there was a change that these field troops were added, only at the moment otherwise. this is in the bill, the order is changed, because there is now added the field managers and their deputies, which was not there. The difference is that you have now added in this deputies' bill. I understand what you've been saying, because we can always say that every president, every director, everyone would want their people to call, because they're responsible for them, and so on. Except there are limits to the changes that are being made. You won't always rule, because sooner or later there will be a moment when someone else will rule. [[Yeah.]] You complained earlier about PSL that they were filling all posts. Ladies and gentlemen, in this... [[And the platform.]] And you've been complaining about the platform. It's very good that you're telling me. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it's a simple matter, of course: in this bill, you're adding deputies. In December, you added field troops and managers, and now you're adding regional and deputies to the field departments. You, Minister, said that this is about 100 additional people who will be there on the basis of a vocation. Therefore, I report Sorry, I'm almost done writing the amendment, Mr President, so that Article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) I'm just gonna cross out the deputies in the regional departments and deputies in the field departments... the field managers. I've crossed out the replacements twice. This is my amendment I'm making. Now that we've gone so far that we cast without competitions, on the basis of the appointment of executives, why don't we just give these deputies a break, okay? That's my amendment. I'll write it right away. I'll pass it on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u230	Does anyone else want to speak? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Mikołajczyk made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposal of a legislative nature has been submitted in writing... in principle, by Senator Florek. [[Okay, here we go.]] The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No.]] No. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposal presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a 15-minute break by 8:15. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 00 to 20 minutes 15]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u231	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 320 and the committee's report in print No 320 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to report on behalf of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the work of the committee on amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products. It is quite late, it will be short, but it is a very important act, I think it is a law that Poles are waiting for, which will enable Poles to make the right decisions when buying food products. The aim of the Act is to introduce new regulations on voluntary labelling of foodstuffs with information about the Polish product, together with the identification of the design of the graphic symbol which can be used together with such information. According to the Act, in order for the non-processed agri-food article to be labelled with the information of the Polish product, it must meet the following criteria... [[It was supposed to be short.]] First, it is a product which has not been processed, but could be separated, divided into parts, cut, cut, deboned, shredded, shredded, crushed, cut, cleaned, cut, deshelled, ground, chilled, frozen, deep frozen or frozen. Secondly, production, cultivation or breeding, including harvesting, milking in the case of cows, sheep and goats, took place in the territory of the Republic of Poland and, in the case of meat, it is also required to be obtained from animals born in the Republic of Poland and which were raised and slaughtered in the territory of the Republic of Poland, and in the case of other than meat products of animal origin, to be obtained from animals which are reared in the territory of the Republic of Poland. A processed agri-food article must be produced in Poland from ingredients that could be labelled as a Polish product. If other ingredients are used for its production, first, the total weight of these ingredients shall be not more than 25% the total weight of all the ingredients at the time of their use to produce this product, excluding the weight of the water used for its production. Secondly, these ingredients cannot be replaced by the same ingredients originating in Poland or which were produced on the territory of the Republic of Poland exclusively from Polish ingredients. The Act assumes that by the end of 2017 products marked with a graphic symbol containing information about Polish sugar not complying with the model may remain on the market. [[No Polish sugar...]] The Act is due to enter into force on 1 January. The Commission has adopted the draft law without amendment and I ask the High House to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u233	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Ewa Lech, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: I don't think that's necessary.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, do you believe that this law will prevent a bad phenomenon related to the quality of Polish food, which has so far been known for its high standards, was a company mark, but more and more And it should be the other way around, and its quality is getting worse. We're losing markets. Such an example was the case in the Netherlands, when the whole of the Netherlands shuddered because of Polish eggs, which we are the biggest exporter. Are there any safeguards against such cases? After all, their period of influence... they've been affecting for many years... In the Czech Republic, too, our criticism continues... I'm not talking about England anymore... It is simply a turning away from good Polish food.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u235	Wait a minute, Minister. Would any of you like to ask the Minister a question? I don't see any volunteers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to say yes. I do not know how you have such information that there is a retreat from Polish food, because we insist and have information that there is no such retreat. Our food is very popular and we are gaining new markets. And the mistake you were talking about, of course, concerns the eggs. But it happens all over the world. There's an investigation going on right now. The use of such an accident, of course, has economic consequences and the countries that detect it, are willing to benefit from it in an attempt to take advantage of this crisis. There are early notification systems and all countries are notified of the situation. So that, as far as eggs and this farm are concerned, these eggs are being withdrawn from our market, from the Community market. Well, the unfortunate thing is that it was about a big farm, actually a big tycoon in egg production. But the rule is, for the quality of food. The manufacturer shall be responsible, in accordance with the regulations, for health and commercial reasons. So, as far as administration's concerned, there's no... The administration is simply to enforce the exercise of the law, the application of the law that ensures quality and the entity is responsible. Bottom line, Mr. Senator, it's not true that we're losing markets because we're gaining them. And if we're losing, it's due to possible infectious diseases, possibly an embargo. So I don't agree with that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u237	Thank you very much, Minister. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Is anybody... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There are no volunteers. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Feed. The text of the Act is contained in print No 323 and the report of the Commission In print No 323 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. ...Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, to report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting today considered a law amending the Law on Feed. The change is small but important for breeders as it moves the ban on genetically modified feed by 2 years. This mainly concerns soy buckwheat, because it is used in feed as a protein medium. This is another shift. Because we have not really been able to develop an alternative protein source for soya so far, nor is it possible at this point to replace genetically modified soya from unmodified crops, it would certainly also have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in our country. The Commission proposes that the law be adopted without amendment. This proposal for a change did not raise controversy and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Ewa Lech like to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ewa Lech: Is that necessary? I don't think...]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Does anyone want to ask that question? I can't see. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The text of the act is contained in print No 304 and the report of the committee In print No 304 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 21 October 2016 amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. On 24 October 2016, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 2 November 2016, the Commission requests that the Act be adopted without amendment. The Act amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, adopted by the Sejm on 21 October 2016, limits the execution and deduction of pensions in a section corresponding to 75% the amount of the lowest pension on deduction, i.e. the amounts enforced under implementing titles to cover claims other than maintenance, including costs and enforcement fees. To date, these claims have been subject to the same rules as maintenance claims, i.e. pension benefits have been protected at only 50% the lowest pension at the time of deduction of the claim is maintenance claims and other than maintenance allowances. The Sejm examined the draft law at first reading on 13 January 2016 in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. On 2 August 2016, the position of the Government was received. On 4 October 2016, the committee adopted a subcommittee report which adopted the draft rules. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund at its twenty-eighth meeting. 428 votes were cast in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. The Act raises no legislative doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u241	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I can't see. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Today we have Minister Marcin Zielenecki, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal, thank you. We support the project in the form that it was sent to the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of you... Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome. Minister, you're welcome to the podium. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The result is an increase of up to 75% ? So far, it's been 50%. Oh, yeah? What was at the root of this increase?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u245	Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the intentions pursued by the project's authors, by sending to the Sejm a draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's pension law, it must be said that it is really about protecting the poorest pensioners, those who receive the lowest benefits and, what needs to be added, those who are in debt, those who are subject to enforcement proceedings in respect of pension benefits. The intention of the project, now the intention of the Act passed on 21 October 2016, is that the amount to be paid by the recipient to whom enforcement proceedings are being conducted should simply be higher than the amount so far applicable. So far this amount has been 50% the lowest pension benefit. According to the version adopted by the Sejm, this amount will be 75% the lowest pension benefit. [[If I may, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u247	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u248	So these are the cases where, for example, Someone's being executed because he didn't pay off the loan, I don't know, taken up in some para-bank institution. Yes? So we're protecting that kind of person.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u249	We protect people who are being executed from different titles. These could be loans in the official financial market, in the bank, right?, when the pension is a guarantee for the repayment of such a loan. To be honest, I do not know the content of the loan agreements concluded with parabanking institutions, but if the benefit is a guarantee for the execution of such an agreement, it may also apply to persons in debt with such institutions. Of course, the catalogue of these various titles for which execution is carried out is much wider. This applies to titles for which both civil execution is carried out, i.e. the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and administrative execution, based on the rules on enforcement in the administration. Such a title, on the basis of which execution may be carried out, may be, for example, a debt under a mandate, a public-law debt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u250	Thank you, Minister. Please, Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal, I apologize for your lack of reflexes, because you actually called for questions, and I violated your courtesy. Minister, my question is short. Does this apply to maintenance debtors?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u252	This change does not apply to maintenance debtors. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u254	In a situation like this, there's always something for something. Wouldn't this bill limit credit opportunities for such borrowers or demand additional collateral from banks?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u255	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, of course, this issue has been the subject of our analysis. It must be borne in mind that, in the original version of the draft, the proposals went further, assuming that the amount free of deduction to satisfy claims other than maintenance claims And that's the title we're talking about. It should be the amount of the lowest pension benefit. And it can be said that from the entire course of the inter-ministerial arrangements, the consultation with the Minister of Justice also showed that there would be risks, the danger of actually depriving people of the lowest pension credit facilities. Because you can't secure a loan or a loan on the basis of a pension benefit. Therefore, in the official position of the Council of Ministers, we have proposed to reduce the amount free of deduction from the lowest pension to 75%. such benefits. In such a way that those receiving the lowest pension benefits can benefit from a very limited but nevertheless creditworthiness.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u257	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty Act. The text of the Act is contained in print 308 and the report of the Commission In print No 308 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur, the combined Committee on National Economy and Innovation, and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u258	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! 2 committees On 3 November this year, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance leaned on the text adopted by the Sejm on 24 October this year by amending the excise duty Act. A brief discussion took place at the meeting of the two committees. Senators and a representative of the Polish Meat Association took the floor. After the discussion, the Senator President submitted a motion for a resolution without amendments. And this is the law that I am directing to the proceedings of the High House, and on behalf of both committees, I ask that this law be adopted. For information only, I would add that the Act has one purpose: to adapt the excise tax law to the EU's requirements for exemption from excise duty on coal products. In the discussion, the senators had no doubts as to the substance of the bill, and the minority's request by Senators Czerwiński and Kilian concerns only the date of entry into force of the law. Both committees accepted the deadline for 1 July 2017 by vote. Therefore, I am bringing a bill in this form to the High House's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, the rapporteur of the minority committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, should take the floor, but there is no senator. Since the bureau is about to start, I'm announcing a recess by 9:00 p.m. Maybe the senator will be back by then. [[Voice from the room: Senior Convention.]] Senior Convention. I'm sorry. Senior Convention. Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 40 to 21 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority group of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, President Andrzej Stanisławek, to present a proposal for a minority of committees. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u260	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, I present the motion of the minority. The point is to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act for the next six months and to do so in the article. 2. replace the words "1 July 2017" with "1 January 2018." I would like to explain immediately that I do not agree with the shift for a very simple reason. It is not possible to modify the boiler room within one year, because the design cycle itself lasts at least six months a year, and the replacement... If these 200-300 companies suddenly requested acceleration and modernisation of the boiler room, the price of the boiler room would increase significantly, so that businesses are more profitable not to modernise the boiler room, but to pay excise duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u261	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Which one of you gentlemen? [[Marshal, I have a question for the Minister.]] To the minister, all right. Do you have a question for the senators of the rapporteurs? No. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Finance has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Wiesław Jasiński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, is with us. Would a government representative like to take the floor on this matter, on the draft law at issue? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: I am at the disposal of the senator.]] You're welcome, Minister, I'd like to invite you to the podium. [[The senator is asking a question.]] Please, Senator Czerwinski is asking a question. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I've got an art in front of me. 17 2003 Directives, to which we are to adapt. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) An energy-intensive undertaking shall mean an economic unit as defined in Article. 11, in which the cost of purchasing energy products and electricity is at least 3% of the value of production. Let's leave the rest. What's next? Within this definition, Member States may use stricter terms, including the value of sales. Now I'm going to read how it's written in our article. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 7: an energy-intensive undertaking using coal products means an entity whose share of the purchase of coal products in the value of marketed production is not less than 10% in the previous year. So first of all, we have 10%. and the Union only requires 3%. Secondly, we're talking about products... The EU talks about energy products, the acquisition of energy products is one thing And electricity together, and we're only talking about coal products. Thirdly, the Union is talking about purchasing, as I said, energy products, electricity, and we are tightening it up and talking about the value of sales. Minister, as a result of this, Or was it because it is not you who is responsible for this, rather than the other, that it is the name, the tightening of EU rules in three places: when it comes to the percentage, energy products and electricity, of which we have only coal here, and on the last point, i.e.. value of sales when there is a value of acquisition there? Why are we so upset? Well, I don't know what to call it, but we're acting to the detriment of our producers, even though the Union doesn't require us to? It's not for fiscal purposes. What's really going on here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u263	Do any of you senators have another question for the Minister? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to thank the senator in particular for his opinion on the possibility of moving the date of entry into force by six months. Mr. Senator was very polite to justify this matter very precisely. I answer the senator's question while thanking him for such a thorough analysis of the article. 17 of the EU Directive you referred to and Article. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 7th Excise Tax Act. There is no way to disagree with Senator about the much more restrictive in terms of financial inclusion in Polish law. I can explain it right now as follows. What we have also asked for from the High Senate, i.e. support for this project, is the need to implement the EU directive correctly, but in terms of exemption for such energy-intensive plants which implement appropriate environmental protection programmes. And that was the premise. We're motivated. And in this area that you're asking the senator about, there's no question... Because the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL in 2012 misunderstood this directive. But also at that time they did not ask for any extended public consultation to reduce this energy intensity threshold, which you are asking the senator to go down to a level lower than 10%. , or to take account of these two further considerations, which you were kind to mention about the article. 31a Polish excise duty law. I can point out from this point of view that we, in respect of any project that has been submitted, for example, this year in the area of financial law, in the area of tax law, do not think in the first place ♪ Or just ♪ - about securing funds to the budget. The point is to seal the system. And it's working. I will remind you that this year we are talking about sealing, after 9 months, at the level of several billion zlotys. And that's the premise. I can therefore also guarantee, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, that this issue could be reduced by 10% energy intensity we can lean forward, but here in turn so that it does not have negative budgetary consequences. At the same time, it will be necessary to calculate how many actors are able to reach this newly adopted ceiling if it were at a level I'm the theorizing. E.g. 4%. I'm arguing this with the grounds that he was kind enough to justify the minority's request, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, the answer is that we should and most probably will. We will make the correct calculations and in this respect we will propose appropriate solutions. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u266	Minister, I refer to Senator Czerwinski's question. Can you tell me if the records you asked the senator about are in this excise duty bill that this government has submitted at the moment? You are referring to the previous government, but the rules that are in this law And here I agree with Senator Czerwinski. It strengthens the EU's criteria. Therefore, I ask whether it is in this bill that you have submitted, whether it is in the bill that the previous government has submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u267	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Czerwiński was polite to quote the law implementing the EU directives in 2012. [[And the Ministry of Finance doesn't think it should be changed?]] Mr. Senator, I was just talking about how we're going to analyze this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u269	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Wiesław Jasiński: Thank you.]] Right now, senators can... [[Voice from the room: Questions have already been asked.]] It's already been done, yes. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that, in some ways, by simply checking certain records, I have come to this conclusion, which was confirmed by the Minister. In 2012, the PO-PSL government, although it could have allowed certain types of entities to benefit from the zero excise duty rate, did so in relation to a much narrower group of operators. The determinant is the 3%. If the operator, the plant used coal for fuel for 3% of the value of production, it could be exempt from excise duty. Am I right, Minister? These are pretty complicated issues. The Polish government established four years ago that it could be 10% In a sense, it is a dam height, more than three times higher, i.e. it tried to be more EU than the Union itself, in short. Therefore, I will make an amendment here to the Minister's and the Ministry's favour. To bring it back to 3%, that is to say, as much as the Union requires of us. Another point is that thanks to careful analysis of this article. 17 directives could be even more, I would say, relieved of our entrepreneurs. Let's just leave it and concentrate on these percentages. The initiative we are now leaning on has two more aspects. We have here another aggregation of the eligible entities, to be energy-intensive companies, which are implementing the system at the same time, I would call it, in terms of energy efficiency, to increase energy efficiency. And you can't miss it anymore, because it's clearly written. And another point is when it can be implemented. Some of our companies, especially concentrated e.g. in the group of Polish Meats, i.e. those that deal with meat processing, but also those from the dairy industry, suggested to extend the entry into force of this law, because we are not yet in dispute with the European Union, we have just been warned for the time being. Thus, theoretically it was possible to extend the entry into force of this law, vacathio legis e.g. from six months to one and a half years. It would give us time to adapt. The government didn't go that way. I understand that the government believes that this should be implemented quickly. I, by the way, tabled this amendment at the committee meeting. Because the government didn't agree with her, I'm not gonna support her. However, I believe that an amendment extending the scope to include those companies which use coal for heating purposes for 3% of their production and not for 10% , would be advisable. On the one hand, it will extend the focus and on the other, it will enable companies to adapt, because this is also important, to enter the adaptation process; this is about increasing their energy efficiency. And that's the amendment I'm putting in your hands, Marshal. And, as I said, I ask the government to consider whether this amendment should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u271	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk has made his speech to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. State Senators, I propose to delete from the agenda items 14th: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Nationals of Poland and the 17th: the Act on the amendment of the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on the amendment of the Act These points will be considered at the next Senate meeting, which will start one day earlier than originally planned, i.e. November 29th this year. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 305 and the report of the committee In print No 305 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I would like to present the position of the committee on the Act amending the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists and certain other laws. The Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and other Acts aims to restore internship and return to post-graduate internship after graduation. The regulation adopted by the Act of 28 April 2011 amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists concerning the training of doctors and dentists introducing two-semester practical training in the sixth year of medical studies and in the fifth year of medical and dental studies. The period of education was then shortened in order to allow graduates to access the labour market more quickly. The weakness of this concept was considered to be an insufficient degree of competence of students to perform health services. Therefore, the Act of 21 October 2016 amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists and certain other laws restores the rank of post-graduate internship as a necessary step in the professional development of doctors and dentists, during which they are allowed to learn the profession in practice and to combine theoretical knowledge with the acquisition of practical skills. The amendment regulates the conditions of the traineeship, its organisation and the scope of the necessary medical qualifications of trainees. The legal and organisational framework for the profession of doctor and dental practitioner has been included in the Act in a uniform and harmonised manner of practical teaching carried out during the sixth year of studies of the medical department and the fifth year of studies in dental and dental sciences. In accordance with the accepted training assumption, a limited right to pursue the profession of doctor and dentist shall be waived during post-graduate training. For the purpose of post-graduate internship and for the duration of its term of office, the district medical board shall grant the full right to pursue the profession. It involves an intern's doctor with his privileges, among others. to issue prescriptions, issue referrals for examinations or opinions and medical certificates. Internship takes place under appropriate supervision For at least 5 years a specialist doctor or a dental practitioner has been engaged in a profession. Practical teaching is to be carried out not only in medical universities, but also in medical and dental schools in simulated clinical conditions. The duration of the traineeship, in agreement with the Medical Council, may be extended for the duration of the part of the training programme which has not been completed, but shall not be extended five years after obtaining the right to pursue the traineeship. If the intern has not completed or has not completed a post-graduate course within 5 years of obtaining the right to pursue the profession, he may re-internate on the basis of a training agreement concluded with the trainee. The Regional Medical Council re-grants the right to pursue the profession for the duration of the internship. In terms of fulfilling the obligation to learn Polish in speech and writing, confirmed, as so far, by an examination from the Polish language and necessary for the profession of doctor and dentist, the law exempts not only persons who have completed medical studies in Polish, but also those who have Polish citizenship or a Member State of the European Union, but who have not completed their studies in Polish. The condition for them is the presentation of a document designated by the Minister responsible for Health, confirming the knowledge of Polish language. The organisation, financing and ensuring the conditions of post-graduate internship will remain the task of the Marshal of the voivodship. This applies to students who are Polish citizens who intend to pursue a profession in Poland, who are permanently resident in the voivodship area, and in the case of foreigners who have a nationality other than the Republic of Poland of a Member State of the European Union who intend to pursue an internship in the area of this voivodship. The Act introduces a provision on sources of financing for post-graduate internship by foreigners outside the European Union who do not fulfil the conditions referred to in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3e. The Act also contains amendments concerning the entry into exams of the Medical Final Exam and the Medical and Dentist Final Exam, predicating only medical graduates, and not students of the last year of these studies. The amendment also includes regulations following the cross-border cooperation agreement signed on 21 December 2011 in medical rescue. In general, the Act clarifies and amends the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws in the field of final examination. It amends and gives the right to check the exams 5 years after the exam has been carried out. Madam Marshal, High Senate, on behalf of the Health Committee, please accept this law without amendment by the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. You're welcome, Senator Major is asking a question. Mr. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u274	Mr. Senator, if it didn't happen at the committee meeting, I'm gonna ask the Minister for an answer. I want to ask you about the financials. The legislator provides financial resources for the operation of the task. And I read that in case of internship, the cost of service for one intern is for a marshal of PLN 123. How did the record on the remuneration of trainees even come up? So how much money will they technically get on a monthly basis? Was this the subject of the committee's deliberations? And I have a similar second question. Is there a proposal for financial resources for trainees? So if there's a doctor who's got a minimum of five years of preparation and he's an intern's handler, will he get some money for it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this was not the subject of the committee's deliberations, this thread was not discussed. But as far as I know, an intern without an on-call doctor receives about PLN 1 000 200, with on-calls already around PLN 1 thousand 900. Does the caregiver's doctor get any money? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u276	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who wants to ask you a question? No. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Jarosław Pinkas, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a very important project. It's a project that gives young students of medical art a sense of security. This sense of security was taken away by the lack of internship, the lack of work with the tutor, the lack of work with the branch manager, who could pass on his information regarding contact with the patient regarding the therapeutic process. The universities were forced to compress teaching. And it didn't really make you feel safe doing your job, all of it. I must say that at the moment when we started working in the government, all the organizations involved in the teaching process at universities, academic teachers, the Conference of Rectors of Academic Medical Colleges, asked us to return to our post-graduate internship. Fortunately, none of the yearbooks in Poland came out without a post-graduate internship, we preceded this situation. Fortunately, the vacathio legis was quite long, so we have a full feeling that no doctor's yearbook will be a yearbook about which we can say that we have actually released the rims, not the doctors. Our doctors are well-educated, they are indeed perfectly perceived abroad, we have American accreditations and the last thing we would want is to bring about a situation where we would weaken the quality of Polish doctor education. I would like to say that in our work on this project, we actually had enormous support for practically all groups: students, residents, medical organisation, medical professional corporation. So that we know that this project is extremely important. It is also important, and above all, for patients, because it is our patients who should feel that they are being treated by doctors with the highest professional qualifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u278	Thank you very much, Minister. Do any of you have a question for the Minister? At present, senators may ask such questions from the place. [[Stay here, or I'll have questions.]] Yeah, I know. The first question to be asked is Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm sorry, Minister, to ask this question, but I promised to ask it, and I don't know if I'll get a better chance. This question is related not directly, but You could say that. - indirectly with this law, in principle with its title. I would like you to explain to me, as a layman, to a non-doctor in a few words, the question of the names of doctors, dentists and dentists. It has been pointed out to me that, however, in the past, we have trained dentists, who come from Greek, who treat the mouth not only with their teeth but also with their teeth, tongue, mucous membrane. As a result, If only you could explain it. The difference is that we once trained dentists, and now we've narrowed it down and trained dentists? As far as I know, the General Medical Council allows the use of both names. What's the difference between a dentist and a dentist in the name of this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u280	Thank you very much. I also ask you to ask Senator Tomasz Grodzki a question. And then there's Senator Major. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just so we're clear, I totally support the idea of reinstating internships. Only, as usual, the devil is in the details. Right now, in the teaching process, in the thoracosurgery where I work, we're dealing with the sixth year. The fifth year comes to this, which is compressed, i.e. to finish medicine after 5 years, and they also come English, German, etc. So it gets a little crowded. I am asking a question on behalf of the students of this fifth year, which is now going through a new compressed mode. Are they gonna be six more years old? Will they have an internship after the fifth year? Or will they finish this two-semester sixth year of practice and then have an internship? They're heavily confounded by this fact. The second question concerns finance. Like Senator Major said... It would be good if we could find the money to congratulate the interns. They're in small amounts... At least in a hospital I've had the privilege of running for 18 years, that's the kind of money we've been paying off. That money's in modest amounts. Such a Phoenician method of motivation is usually the most effective. However, in the amendment there is a column of numbers that I have to say a little bit worried about. It says what measures are foreseen for all of this. By 2021, they are falling strangely, from PLN 276 million per year to PLN 200 million per year. Only later do they grow to a steady level of PLN 293 million. Minister, are we afraid that we will have fewer interns when we increase the number of places in universities? This column is, frankly, bothering me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u282	Thank you. Senator Richard Majer. You're welcome. Then answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this bill, because, as the Minister has pointed out, It increases the patient's sense of safety because an educated doctor can treat and help the patient more responsibly. Can you assure us that this law is the beginning of changes in the process of training medical professionals in Poland? Why do I say that? From the data provided by the District Medical Chamber in Częstochowa, it appears that within 10 to 15 years there will be a decrease in the number of doctors specialists. Young doctors leave after college. There is already a large group of highly middle-aged doctors. Does the Ministry see this problem related to a demographic defect that concerns Polish doctors? Are there therefore plans in the Ministry for conceptual work and changes in the education process, its course or wider? The point is that at some point we shouldn't be left without doctors in a situation where the demand for medical work is getting bigger because society is getting old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u284	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u285	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Some questions can really embarrass me, especially the first question, but I will try to answer. First of all, I think it's about matching our professional titles to what's going on in the world. Of course, in the world, we have a doctor we're talking about, he's a dentist, not a dentist. And it seems that this is a category of matching to certain language requirements and translation requirements. Another case that's very important. I want to tell you that we actually only have two professional titles, i.e. A doctor and a dentist. There's no doctor. The doctor is actually butter butter. Therefore, all those who graduate from medical school receive a doctor's degree, and those who graduate from dental studies receive a dental doctor's degree. We're actually training more doctors right now. This year is a very rich year. We were able to negotiate with university rectors that they would accept 18% students more. This year, since October 1st, we've had this call. Therefore, of course, a much larger number of students I hope so. He's going to finish his studies and there's nothing to worry about. I'm sure we'll have enough money to pay for our post-graduate internship. By the way, I would like to say that this is the sum of PLN 2 000 7 gross, financed by the Labour Fund. Professor, Senator, there's not gonna be a situation where someone's gonna graduate after five years. At this point in time, the entire fifth year of study knows perfectly well that it will be the sixth year. This sixth year is a very practical year, a year of simulation medicine. But thanks also to the fact that the rectors know that young students of the medical profession will not finish their studies in the fifth year, it is also possible to bring to the situation that there will be a number of extremely important activities there, e.g. communication classes, ethics classes, choice of faculty, which is also very much related later to the choice of rational specialisation. Dentists, internships, number of interns... We would really like to find money for interns. I think this is something we need to work on right now. But we are currently working on increased healthcare spending and we are also working to ensure that all healthcare workers are well paid. I remind you that they are not only doctors and dentists, but also nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists. We are therefore planning, as you know, to work on minimum rates for all professional groups. Then, of course, also intern doctors, resident doctors, who are not earning much at the moment, as well as other doctors working in hospital departments and primary health care or outpatient specialist care will have a chance to earn higher wages. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u286	Thank you very much, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. The text of the Act is contained in print 309 and the Commission's reports in print 309 A and 309 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the Act of 21 October 2016 on the ratification of the Protocol to Convention No 29 on Forced Labour of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the Sejm's meeting on 21 October this year is to agree by Parliament to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Protocol to Convention No 29. This Protocol adapts Convention 29 on Forced or Compulsory Labour to contemporary challenges, mainly addressing trafficking in human beings. The actions required by the Protocol are: education and information activities carried out in particular in risk groups and among employers; ensuring that regulations relating to the prevention of forced and compulsory labour cover all sectors of the economy and strengthening the institutions responsible for the inspection of work in the area concerned; protecting workers, in particular migrants during recruitment; supporting the process of thorough and careful analysis of contractors in terms of violation of workers' rights and exploitation of forced labour in both the public and private sectors; taking action to eliminate the causes and factors that increase the risk of forced and compulsory labour; adopting measures to identify, protect and support victims and to ensure their access to and rehabilitation; adopting arrangements to ensure that victims are not punished for any illegal acts committed in connection with the victim's forced labour. According to this document, victims of forced labour must not be discriminated against in access to protection, support and compensation because they are illegally present in the territory concerned. Countries are also required to cooperate in preventing forced labour. At its meeting, the Commission took note of the material, unanimously supported the draft resolution on this ratification and recommended that the attached draft resolution be adopted by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u288	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to stress that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, like the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, recommends that the High House adopt a law adopted in accordance with the Sejm and empower the President to ratify this protocol to the Convention, which was signed in 1930. As usually happens in our committee, it was not without discussion, in which both the senators and the government participated. It would seem that in Europe, including Poland, this... For millennia, we've known it from history... To mention some of these symbolic acts, I will mention here even an uprising under the leadership of Spartacus. Even the teams lived and kidnapped people and forced them to slave, they had to build strongholds and satisfy their various needs in life. The largest in this respect, the ungrateful record is related to the scale of slave labor in the period of the Nazi Reich. Her victims are still alive. It turns out that despite the development of civilization and the protection of human rights, despite the activities of many institutions, including non-governmental ones, this phenomenon does not cease. The phenomenon doesn't stop, you can even talk about the intensity of the phenomenon, and certainly at least the number increase... Although this is not the only reason this protocol was created and Poland is in favour of its full ratification. The number of people working under forced or compulsory labour is increasing, estimated to be between 20 and 50 million people in the world today. In Poland, various estimates refer to 167 thousand people in slave labour conditions. I allow myself to expand my speech a little, because the opinion that the government gave is consistent with what we all have an unpleasant opportunity to see. Slave work in Poland does not have a definition, but this issue is regulated by regulations to prevent... They are scattered in many places, and that's in the Refugees Act, and that's in the Labour Code, and that's in the regulations ordering government institutions, including the State Labour Inspection, the Border Guard, to control this phenomenon. Despite such wide legal infrastructure, as I said, this phenomenon in Poland is growing. It turns out that traditional methods have been abandoned, the kidnapping of people, slavery, in particular forced labour, and criminal groups have been constructed, but also, it would seem, organisations that conduct illegal or unfair business activities, control the work of a man who is subjected to it voluntarily. So it turns out that the old definition, which was that a worker is forced to work, is committed to state decisions or others to this work, does not stand the test of time. Today it is, unfortunately, also in western Europe. It can even be said that this is a phenomenon that has grown in the European Union, in the West of Europe. That it is not necessary to act against the will of the employee, it is enough to control his behaviour, and this is through the acquisition of a passport, and it is through economic compulsion... This in Poland is an expression of forcing the conclusion of the so-called. garbage contracts, in particular works contracts that have nothing to do with the work. Therefore, Poland is not in the boastful classification of the countries which comply with the principles of the 1930 Convention. It's a good thing the government noticed that. And I would just like to add, Minister, that this observation of the government is that employers are not even open to certain information processes, processes advertising the prohibition of slave activity, as the government rightly writes... Employers should, in my opinion, be forced to do so, and the best form is the Council of Social Dialogue. Finally, our country, our rights, especially the interests of the workers, are not the only ones responsible for the human rights of the government. It's not the government, it's not the state administration that creates this phenomenon, it's where I think it's supposed to be. Nevertheless, I believe that this protocol will help everyone to us, both the state administration, which commands control and policy-making against such actions as the victims... Protocol creates additional possibilities, I would say, not only to protect their rights, but to repair their harm. The question is whether or not we will have to revise some of the laws so that this ungrateful phenomenon disappears from the statistics, but above all from our consciences. Thank you, High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u290	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u291	Senator Rulewski. [[I'm listening, Mr. Marshal.]] Did I overheard you say, or is it that... are the workers working for the work contracts subject to this convention? [[No.]] And did you actually is this a matter for the institution of social dialogue? I thought this was a police matter, a border guard, because it's just a criminal act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u292	Thank you. Understood, your question, Mr. Marshal. I'm calming down: contracts for work are not, let's call it, an expression of slave labor or compulsory work, but contracts forced certainly have something in common with a certain act of slavery. [[Thank you.]] Forced means... our law, the criminal code in the article. 218 clearly states that malicious and, if I remember correctly, intrusive violations of workers' rights are being pursued. The Code states that the freedom of workers guaranteed in Poland by the Constitution is... Another thing is that I could talk about this for a long time, but I don't think it's the right time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family Affairs, Social Policy, Justice, Home Affairs and Administration and Minister for Foreign Affairs were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Minister Stanisław Szwed, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, is with us. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! After Senator Rulewski's speech, I would not want the impression that we have a huge problem with slave labor in Poland, because it is not. In fact, on a global scale, it's a big problem, because the estimates we're talking about here... We can talk about 20 and 50 million people who belong to the category of people forced to work as slaves. I will briefly say that from the data we have from the Public Prosecutor's Office, 115 people were granted the status of victim of trafficking in human beings in Poland, 41 of whom were foreigners, including citizens of Ukraine 18 persons, Vietnam 14 persons, Bulgaria 3 persons, Sri Lanka 4 persons. The national intervention centre for victims of trafficking in human beings has provided support I happen to have data from 2015 to 229 people, including 126 foreigners. These figures do not show the problem that Senator Rulewski was talking about. I would also like to point out that we are one of the leaders in the implementation of the Convention Protocol. Among the countries of the European Union, the Czech Republic, France and the United Kingdom have ratified, i.e. we are the fourth country. In the world, 8 other countries have ratified Nigeria Norway, Mali, Mauritania and Panama. It is a pity that so few countries have ratified this protocol because the matter is important and requires the joint action of all services. In our country, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration through the Border Guard, Ministry of Justice is responsible for these matters. There's a record in the Penal Code. The National Labour Inspection, of course, will receive additional powers thanks to the adoption of the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u295	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer a minute's query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question will be unusual, but I would like to ask it by the way, using your presence and discussing the subject. Namely this convention is relatively old, because from 1930. When did Poland become involved in this convention? And consequently such a question. Would the provisions of this convention in any way help Poles who worked forcefully in the years of World War II, especially in Germany, to obtain due gratification, compensation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u297	The provisions of this convention are not. These cases had already been settled, and, if I remember correctly, the foundation, which generally dealt with claims concerning the Third Reich. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Senator, I can answer in writing here, because this is not the scope of my work. This case has already been settled, the problem has been resolved. She dealt with these matters the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation, she paid these compensations. The bigger problem was on the other side in relation to claims against the Soviet Union. This problem, as we know, has not been resolved positively. But as far as the victims of the Third Reich are concerned, yes, although from the discussions of earlier years I remember that many were not satisfied with the solutions that were then adopted, nor with the amount of compensation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u298	Thank you very much. Is the senator satisfied, or would he like to extend this reply in writing? [[From what I understand, the Minister will inform me in writing about the details.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: I will try to address the office for veterans to answer precisely.]] Good. You're welcome. You are asking the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u299	I understand that this is a protocol to a convention, which is something... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed:...complementary.]] ...over this 1930 convention. As I understand it, this protocol provides for the non-punishment of persons who have committed a criminal offence or offence in a situation of forced labour. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No, no.]] No, that's not it. Good. In that case, I would like to ask whether the concept of forced labour also includes prostitution, which is, so to speak, carried out, carried out by compulsion, whether it is economic or physical. Does this convention include such cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We don't have a definition of forced labour. In all these solutions, we use the criminal code. It is from these provisions that specific charges and penalties are imposed. If necessary, there are also representatives of the Minister of Justice with me who will possibly complete this statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u301	Okay, I'll tell you what I mean, Minister. I ask this because prostitution in Poland is not included in any type of work, it is not taxed, etc., and cases of forced prostitution and profit are common. I therefore ask: are such situations subject to this convention?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u302	You can say that directly no, but by other regulations yes, that is, they are subject to general rules that apply in our country, but there is no direct provision here. This additional protocol does not impose additional obligations on us when it comes to changes in the law, which does not mean that we cannot make further changes concerning e.g. a criminal code or other regulation in this respect. That is, directly not as far as prostitution and the provisions of this convention are concerned, but indirectly yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u303	Thank you very much. And you're gonna ask Jan Rulewski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u304	Minister, maybe it all looks so good because these statistics of some things don't include, even when there are some problems. Prostitution, of course, is not legally pursued in any way, cannot be pursued or likely not pursued because it is a personal choice. However, it is certainly wanted to force, to encourage prostitution, to conduct business in this area. So my question is: how broad is this phenomenon? In particular, the one that includes citizens, because this convention, this protocol talks especially about migrants, immigrants, e.g. Ukraine, where it is coerced, I would say, prostitution. How do you assess this phenomenon? Are these current measures sufficient to combat it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u305	Of course, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, which is the kind of action the police take if there is a crime and then there is the whole process. In this respect, it is controlled in this way, and at the moment I do not have data on precisely prostitution cases. As I say, this convention kind of doesn't apply directly. Of course, taking women out of Poland or bringing them and forcing them into prostitution is a crime that is being prosecuted from other provisions of Polish law. So the police have the tools to act, then there's the D.A.'s office and, of course, at the end of the courthouse. But we don't have those records directly in the convention itself. So, if we had to give the data on the problem that the senators were asking about, the problem of prostitution, we could... I look at the Ministry of Home Affairs, or at the data we have, and they can be asked to supplement or we will reply in writing. Well, that's up to your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u306	Good. There's still the question of Marshal Borusewicz. Minister Swede, right? [[Yeah, yeah.]] And then a representative of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u307	Minister, I'm not asking about prostitution, statistics. I'm pointing out that this kind of situation... I mean, prostitution is not qualified as a job in Poland. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: No, it is not.]] So if there's a security convention... There are cases of forced prostitution, so if there is a convention on forced labour, I ask how it is treated. Because there's a conflict with the law here. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Means this convention...]] Does this convention cover such cases? I take it you do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u308	It includes, of course, absolutely. [[Exactly. Thank you...]] Not in a direct way, as I've already said. Only indirectly, through other regulations that are in our... [[No, no. I ask whether this convention directly covers such cases.]] Yes. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u309	Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Czerwinski... [[Voice from the room: Yes, Czerwinski.]] ...Redwinsky... [[Voice from the room: I Borusewicz.]] ...and Senator Borusewicz... [[No, thank you very much, as to me, the case has been cleared up.]] I see. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. The text of the Act is contained in print 316 and the report of the Commission In print No 316 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] [[There it is, there it is, bravo.]] [[Oh, no, I'm in the backstage...]] [[Voice from the room: Vigilance.]] [[...in the backstage, but...]] [[You're in culture at the exhibition. Keep an eye on the show.]] [[Text message sent...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u310	No, I was standing here because I was consulting. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 4 November 2016 amending the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and the Act on Museums. I would just like to say, for the sake of clarity of the case, that this law concerns the introduction of technical amendments which are necessary to ensure the consistency of the law with the applicable rules, and is intended to adapt the Law on the amendment of the Act on the Protection of Monuments, which was examined by the Constitutional Tribunal on the compatibility with the Constitution, to the amendments introduced during the proceedings. In short, to make it clear and simple: it was about wanting to adapt the project to the present state. And basically, the law only has a technical aspect, so to speak. Of course, it concerns all matters relating to the protection of monuments, which in the previous term of office of the Sejm I, of course, represented him. And the Senate has already passed. At the committee meeting there was a very substantive and non-tourism debate, because all senators believed that the issue of the protection of Polish monuments and heritage was a fundamental matter. There have been very beautiful speeches that concerned Mr Gawin, who I warmly welcome, and I apologize to the Minister for not being able to... We took into account, in particular, that we know that the real amendment will take place, as far as I know, in 2017, because the Antiquities Act requires a real reconstruction. As a result, it took place... Two amendments were tabled at the meeting, which were voted on in the so-called... How do you say that? Yeah, well, they were all for... [[Unanimously.]] [[Voices from the room: Unanimously.]] Yeah, it's unanimous. That's all I have to show you. Tomorrow we will vote on this bill. I have some additional information I'm going to give you in the sitting room tomorrow. If necessary, I am ready to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u311	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Culture and National Heritage has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[There's no need for that.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... Oh, no. Great. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would also like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm declaring a recess. [[Voice from the room: Still messages.]] Oh, communications. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u312	Joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of applications submitted at the 30th Senate meeting to the Act amending the excise duty Act Senator's printing no. 308 will take place tomorrow, November 17th, at 8:15 in room No. 217. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions on the proposals submitted to the Constitutional Tribunal's Statute of Judges will be held tomorrow, 17 November, at 8.15 p.m. in room 176. And the third message. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to examine the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers will take place tomorrow at 8.45 am in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-16-senat-30-2.u313	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 9:30 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 09]]
