ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec and Sylvester Tulayev. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Extraordinary for changes in codification - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 12, - to the European Union together with the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 12.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u3	Thank you very much. I inform you that the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Sejm of his intention to submit to the President of the Republic of Poland for ratification, without the agreement of the Act, agreements between the Government of the Republic of Poland and: - the Government of the Republic of Cyprus, - by the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, - the Government of Georgia concerning the mutual protection of classified information. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Members did not raise objections within a certain time limit on the validity of the ratification procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has submitted reports requesting that the Prime Minister's notifications be accepted without reservation. The Commission's reports shall be in prints Nos 485, 486 and 487 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 120. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform you that there are no reservations as to the validity of the procedure chosen by the Council of Ministers for ratifying these documents. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the University of Warsaw. The design is 510 printing. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 509. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. High Izbo! I would like to warmly welcome the rector of the University of Warsaw prof. dr. hab. Mr Marcin Pałys, as well as Professor of the University of Warsaw Professor Dr. hab. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski and Prof. Wojciech Tygielski. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: a draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the University of Warsaw (print No 510). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. I'll read the text of the draft resolution. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the University of Warsaw. On the 200th anniversary of the establishment of the University of Warsaw, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses appreciation and respect for many generations of scientists and students of this Polish university. Since the beginning of its existence, since 1816, the University of Warsaw has been training the intellectual elites of our country, conducting research, expanding knowledge in many fields, significantly affecting the development of national culture and economy, is active in the field of public service and social responsibility. Thanks to its scientists, many thousands of graduates, as well as the results conducted at the highest level of research, the university contributes to the success of Poland and co-creates a positive image of our country in the world. Appreciating the achievements of the University, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland will support the further development of the University of Warsaw. Please accept the resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the University of Warsaw. The formal request was made by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1, please take a break and convene the Seniors Convention... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...in order to complete the agenda of today's proceedings about the information of the Minister of Health on the situation in Podkarpacie regarding the possibility for women to exercise their right to terminate pregnancy under the Family Planning Act. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] We have news from the media that there is no hospital in Podkarpacie now, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] where women are legally able to make the delivery of their pregnancy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We would like to know what the Polish State is going to do for this purpose, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] to ensure that women are able to exercise their rights under the law. We therefore ask the Senior Convention to complete the agenda. Let us note that the Polish State is responsible for the possibility of exercising the civil rights of its citizens. [[He has no right to kill.]] The law resulting from the Family Planning Act is also an inalienable right for women. You cannot allow a situation in which this law is not implemented in one of the voivodships. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern One, I ask for a break and a meeting of the Senior Convention to complete the agenda for this information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u5	Mr Winnicki, the vote against. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are no more hospitals in Podkarpacie that would commit child murders that would perform abortions. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] And this is because, Commissioner, in the last hospital where this was done, doctors signed a conscience clause. Because doctors don't want to murder unborn children, and the state... [[Applause]] [[Everyone.]] ...as a group allegedly in favour of freedom, you want to limit this right to Polish Catholic doctors. This is an outrage. [[The bell, the applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Get down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u7	But Mrs Lubnauer, you can only be corrected. Here you go, Mrs, in a correction procedure. [[Voice from the room: Take your hand out of your pocket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u8	No one questions the right of doctors to a clause of conscience. On the other hand, we are questioning that because the state should uphold civil rights, and this state, in accordance with the law, is to ensure that women have access to the possibility of carrying out pregnancy termination, in accordance with the Family Planning Act. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] We therefore expect you to also provide this opportunity for the women of Podkarpacie. [[Applause]] [[He has no right to kill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u9	This was the mode of misunderstood speech by the Member. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal, the statement by the Member and consequently the vote of opposition by the Member does not concern the current agenda. The power of the Marshal of the Sejm is to convene the Senior Convention. I don't see the possibility, because it would be kind of irregular on my part. I request a written request on this matter. We will consider it at the Bureau and Senior Convention meeting on the work plan next week. We'll proceed to the... What are we going to do now? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. I've got it all written in here. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Public Roads and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund (prints Nos 474 and 501). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee. I inform you that the Convention has been notified that this will be a point with a 3-minute debate, because this is a report relating to the Senate resolution. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few words. After considering the law on amending the Public Roads Act and on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund, the Senate decided to introduce six editorial amendments to the text of this regulation. I would like to remind the High House that the aim of the proposed amendments is to create and then implement procedures that regulate the so-called. European electronic toll service - EETS and ensure future integration of the Polish toll collection system by electronic means into European systems. High Izbo! We propose adopting the amendments of Senate 1, 3, 4 and 5, while rejecting Amendment 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u11	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that in the discussion we will hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Paul, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Public Roads and the Law on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. The above law was adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 31 March 2016. On 5 May this year. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 29 April 2016 on the Act amending the Act on Public Roads and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund was adopted by the Infrastructure Commission. The Senate has introduced six amendments to this law which are of a sequencing and precise nature. In Amendment 1, in Article. 16e and Article 16e 16h makes it clear that the provider of the European electronic toll service is obliged to conclude two contracts: one with the charger and the other with the user of the service. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. 16f and Article 16f 16and a change in the expression 'for false testimony' to 'for false statements'. Amendment 3 concerns the amendment to Article. 16j. The wording of the concept of "law hundreds" was converted into "law hundreds" for delay in order to maintain the terminology of the text of the law. The next two amendments clarify the appeal made by the legislator to the legislation in force: Article. 16j - to the Law of 17 June 1966 on enforcement proceedings in the administration, whereas Article. 16w - to the Law of 13 April 2016 on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems, which replaced the Law of 30 August 2002 on conformity regime. The last amendment concerns the addition of an article. 2a, the provision of which extends the duration of the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure and Development of 2 July 2015 on verifying the regularity of payment of the electronic fee to a maximum of 9 months from the date of entry into force of this Act. In conclusion, it should be said that the amendments proposed by the Senate to Laws 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are justified and will contribute to the smoother functioning of the legal provisions on the European electronic toll service. On the other hand, the amendments introduced by Amendment 2 do not have any practical justification, since the Penal Code provides for the application of criminal liability provisions for the submission of false statements also to those making a false statement if the provision of the Act provides for the possibility of taking a statement under criminal liability. In view of the above, Members of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, have a positive opinion on amendments 1, 3 to 5 introduced by Senate Resolution 1 and 6 and will vote in favour and reject Amendment 2. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u13	Please. Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. The amendments tabled by the Senate - six amendments - have just been discussed in very detail by my previous speaker. These are amendments that actually clarify, clarify, agree with other legal acts. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote as it is in the committee's position, i.e. vote in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 to 6 and reject Amendment 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u15	Please. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. I would only ask your fellow Members to take their seats, to stop the discussion. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And I ask Mr Kownacki to turn forward to the speaker. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the club's position on the electronic toll collection system. This system should be unified with the EU system. This system must be implemented and this is the result of a European Union directive. Such unification of electronic toll collection devices should result in systemic facilitation for carriers. But it should be added that at this moment it is the song of the future. Today it is a theoretical solution. In short, it will be a dead rule for a long time, but it requires adoption. Negligences in this respect caused by the previous rulers have led to a burdensome collection of cash charges for carriers in the concession sections to this day. Before the above-mentioned provisions are applied in practice, the challenge is to make this system work at all. Basic assumptions: one contract, one settlement and one on-board device. At this point we have sections of highways where there are concessions, where it has to be paid in cash or using a card. For road users, for carriers it is very burdensome. We are behind Europe in this respect. If this system is designed as it is intended and as amended, it is a good step to make it easier for Polish carriers to do so. The Kukiz Club15 accepts the recommendation of the committee and will be behind the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u17	Please. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u18	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on public roads and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. These are prints Nos 474 and 501. Of course, as colleagues have already mentioned, the need to amend these laws is due to the need to implement European Union legislation in national law. By adopting the provisions contained in those decisions, operators operating in countries which use electronic tolling systems will be able, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, to enter into, firstly, only one contract which will cover the entire road network in the territory of the Member States of the European Union, which of course will have the appropriate electronic toll collection systems. Unfortunately, this is going to happen except for our highways. Here is a great task for the government for the future, how to make us stop paying in cash on our motorways, and we can drive across Poland without stopping. Thanks to these regulations, drivers will so far be able to have only one on-board charging device instead of a whole range of devices for each system separately and to regulate travel fees on the European Union road network on the basis of only one invoice to be issued by the EETS provider. It is generally a good solution that meets the expectations of the transport industry. The system will streamline the toll collection process and will also reduce red tape. Sejm March 31st this year. adopted the Transport Act, the relevant provisions of European law implemented in Polish law, and then passed the Act to the Senate in order to present its position. The Senate presented six amendments in its report. They concern the clarification of certain provisions, the harmonisation of terminology, the updating of references and the provision of a transitional period for the current rules. In view of the nature of the amendments tabled by the Senate, The modern vote will support them in accordance with the recommendations of the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u19	Please. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party in the context of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. You will allow the marshal that I will no longer discuss and repeat all those issues that have been spoken by my previous speakers. We consider the content of the provisions to be targeted, justified, resulting from the adaptation of our legislation to European Union legislation and from the harmonisation of the charging system. The Polish People's Party Club will vote in favour of amendments 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 and reject amendment 2. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u21	Thank you, sir. I don't see any further reports. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 452. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No. 452, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 416 Members voted. 413 voted against - 2, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Labour Code Act. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 453. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 453, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. I state that the Sejm unanimously passed a law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank. The additional committee report shall be in print No 458-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the parliamentary draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swinna Poręba water tank, one amendment was tabled - by the PO club. The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry examined this amendment at its meeting yesterday. The amendment concerns an increase of 3100 000. PLN of the amount allocated to the additional construction of the road, requested by one of the local authorities of the municipality of Stryszów. As there were significant doubts as to whether this amount could actually be achieved, there were too many doubts, the committee decided to give a negative opinion. By 8 votes in favour, with 14 votes against, the committee adopted a negative opinion on this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u23	Of course, the committee, I understand, is asking for the bill to be passed. We will vote on the amendment first. In the amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 1 applicants propose to increase the total financial expenditure on completing the vessel to 56 330 000. zł. As we have heard, the committee requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is not controversial, but the amendment was tabled by Mr Mark Sowa, who was a marshal of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship. I assume that he is a responsible Member and has tabled an amendment which is based on actual calculations. Therefore, it would be really good for this investment, which is needed, to be completed in its entirety, so that there is no situation in which we open the tank and a piece of road length of 1300 m is missing, because it would actually spoil the whole opening ceremony. Now that we're opening up, it should be a comprehensive investment. I therefore ask you to accept this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u25	Thank you very much. That was an appeal from the Member. So we proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 208 voted against - 227, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. At the moment, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz again asks for the floor. I understand that's gonna be a question. Is this another appeal? [[Declaration before the vote. Position...]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[But he has the right, doesn't he have the right?]] But, sir, please put it in the form of a question. [[Voice from the room: He can ask you what he wants.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u26	Good. The question is, will the Law and Justice Club, in this vote, support this bill? I just wanted to thank you for making this bill at all. We only regret that we simply have so little opportunity to deal with laws that are not controversial and for which we can actually vote in favour with full awareness and support. The Modern Club will absolutely, even if this amendment has been rejected, support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u27	Do I understand correctly, or do I not understand? That was a question. Wasn't that a question? [[Joy in the Chamber]] We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No.458, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who stopped it? 439 Members voted. The vote was 437, 2 against, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a bill on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba water tank. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economics and Development on the governmental bill amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 462-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the Joint Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development discussed the amendment tabled to the government draft law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and certain other laws. This amendment was unanimously accepted by the joint committees. This is also an amendment recommended by the Legislative Office. We therefore request that the amendment be adopted and that the law be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u29	Thank you. It's a draft print bill 462. We will vote on the amendment first. In the amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is proposed by the applicant, among others. the new wording of point 3. As we have heard, the committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The amendment was unanimous. We move on to a minority proposal which is submitted to the Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and added paragraphs. 2a and 2b of the Act on Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, in which applicants propose, inter alia, that the Management Board be composed of five members, including the President and two Vice-Presidents. Questions? The question is raised by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This novel is a competence and personnel act. In fact, in any case, it provides for an increase in the number of authorities, agencies and capital companies. The draft amendment concerns the reduction of the personal composition of the Management Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego from six to five persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not find any justification in the Act for increasing the personal composition of the bank's management board. Moreover, those of you who worked on the boards of capital companies are not Prime Minister Morawiecki's, but I'm sure he would confirm this... [[Voice from the room: Question!]] ...knows that the board of directors, which is odd, facilitates work, technically facilitates voting. I hope that you will support this amendment and thus prove that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The aim of the law is not to create further positions for party activists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u31	Here we have heard another appeal, not questions. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 433. 203 voted against - 228, with two abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. At the moment, the questions have been raised by Members. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The bill raises our three fundamental doubts. I've already told you about the first doubt, it's staff issues. In any case, this means, as I said, increasing the personal composition of government agencies and capital companies. The second very important issue is competence. In the novel we transfer the powers of the Treasury's guarantees and guarantees from the Minister of Finance, i.e. the guardian of the budget, to the Minister of Development. It's very dangerous, it could result in a charge on the State Treasury. Finally, the third issue: ownership supervision. In this act we disperse ownership supervision between different resorts. How can this result in what is at risk? It threatens the lack of uniform rules of ownership supervision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to remind you that... [[Time.]] ...in the year 2000, rules of ownership were developed, this is a burgundy book, you can find it in the Ministry of Treasure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u33	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u34	...was dusty for eight years, I suggest you dust it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u35	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's bill, which we will be voting on in a moment, is a tool, in our understanding, which will make Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki more powerful and able to implement his plan more effectively. Of course, it is a mistake on the part of the PiS government to increase the number of officials, to increase the size of the camera that will serve these competences, but we understand that the government has the right to do so, just as it has the right to increase the ministry, as it has the right to arrange according to its own understanding and needs the composition of the team and the number of those who will be responsible for the project of Minister Morawiecki. Nevertheless, in a year or two, we will return to the subject and ask whether the increase in staff has translated into the effectiveness of its tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u37	You're welcome, sir. I'd just ask you to do it in some way, like this. Is it true that... or why it is so and so...? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a question at the beginning, or else you cause me to stand before the High House as a breacher of the rules, allowing the question of the statement at the point of question. Because it's a form of statement. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 462, along with one amendment, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 408, against - 30, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Act on Export Insurance Guaranteed by the State Treasury and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. The additional report shall be in print No 464-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u38	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ministers, On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I am pleased to present an additional report on the draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. 16 amendments were tabled yesterday during the second reading. At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Public Finance also gave an opinion on all the amendments and proposes to accept Amendment 15 and all the other amendments, i.e. Amendments Nos 1.14 and 16, reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, Jurek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u39	There you go. The vote will begin with the amendments. Amendments 1 to 11 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Tax Ordination Act. In the first amendment to Article. 14b applicants propose to delete the additions § 5b and 5c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There were 174 votes against - 231 and 28 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 82 applicants propose to delete the addition of § 1b. Amendments 12 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 15 irrelevant. The question is asked by Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club. [[He's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u40	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! To the article. 82 Tax Order added a new provision - § 1b. The modern amendment concerns the deletion of this added provision as its content does not fall within the scope of the effects of the draft law which was the subject of consultation and agreement. We expect the deletion of this provision, which goes directly beyond the scope of the Government's submission presented at first reading. Thus, the provision in question, introduced at this stage, infringes the constitutional principle of three readings arising directly from the Article. 119 of the Constitution and is a clear violation of the principles of applicable legislation. Has a constitutional violation ritual become a vile hobby for law and justice? This question is all the more justified by the fact that the Parliamentary Legislative Office has drawn attention to an irregularity concerning the procedure of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u41	There you go. The question can be addressed rather to the representative of the committee, sir, and not to the Law and Justice. [[Exactly.]] There, it seems, there are not only Members of the Law and Justice on this committee. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 12 and 14 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 173 voted against - 267, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 119a applicants shall propose a different wording § 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is raised by Mr... [[Vladimir Nykiel.]] ...Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform Club. [[Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project defines whether it can determine tax avoidance which is defective and incomprehensible and at least leads to serious interpretation difficulties. It's unclear, for example. this, which is of great importance, is the contradiction of the benefits with the subject-matter of the provision. I have asked this question three times, twice to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, once to Mr Gosievski. I didn't get an answer to that. Anyway, I'm not surprised, because that definition is incomprehensible. That is why we propose an amendment. Does the Ministry share my assessment? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u43	The government represents Minister Marian Banaś here. Would you like to respond? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Member has received an answer from us. The answer was this: we have adopted the definition in force in the European Union, as set out in the European Union's standards, we use this definition and it is sufficient to apply it in our legislation. I would like to say that this law deals primarily with dishonest entrepreneurs, so all its provisions are aimed at dishonest entrepreneurs. Honest ones need not fear any consequences from this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u45	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 180, against - 233, with 28 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the inserted article. 119h § 1 applicants propose that the Minister responsible for public finances should consult the Anti-Tax Avoidance Board in the course of the proceedings. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. And here's the question. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club, reports it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe - and so also our club - that a clause is needed, but the clause should be accompanied by mechanisms to protect the rights of the taxpayer, protecting its interests. That is why we have proposed that the opinion of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council should be mandatory for it to always be issued, because this increases the safety of the taxpayer. Isn't that right? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u47	Minister, are you right, or are you wrong? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: He's wrong.]] [[Short answer.]] [[I think the professor has authority.]] [[He's wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! All rights of the taxpayer shall be secured. At the request of an appeal against a decision, the Minister may at any time request and obtain an opinion, so there is no concern that the rights of the taxable person could be infringed here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u49	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 209 voted against - 230, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the inserted article. 119i propose to delete § Nine and ten. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Still on the protection of the rights of the taxpayer. Art. 119i § 9 provides that if the Minister of Finance has doubts, he may refer to the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council. If the Council does not deliver any opinion, the situation is: the Minister has doubts, he addressed the Council, the Council did not say anything, e.g. she was late, that, under this provision, is at the disadvantage of the taxpayer, because that means that we have to apply this harsh clause. Is this the proper protection of taxpayers' rights? This is, ladies and gentlemen, the rule: in case of doubt in favor of the fiscal, in dubio pro fisco, that's the rule. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u51	I don't think you'll get an answer to that question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Taxpayers won't get it.]] In the 5th Amendment to the Added... The Commission is asking for rejection... That's what I said. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 178 Members voted against - 257, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the inserted article. 119n propose to delete the provision that the Council shall act until the next term of office is established, but no longer than six months after the expiry of the term of office. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 174 voted against - 263, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the inserted article. 119o applicants propose a new wording § 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 8 and 9 irrelevant. And here he asks Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Anti-Tax Avoidance Board should not be dependent on the Minister of Finance. The Council should be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. The Council should include people with considerable experience and knowledge of tax law, giving the guarantee of maintaining the highest standards, objectivity in assessing taxpayers' behaviour. That's why the council should consist of... [[Z PO.]] ...mostly from the retired NSA judges, academics, as well as persons designated by the Ombudsman... [[And by Rzepliński.]] ...because he deals with the rights of the taxpayer. There is no taxpayer's attorney in Poland. Can such a solution interfere with the functioning of the law as proposed by us? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Maybe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u53	That is the question, sir, because I will not answer that question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But it's obvious.]] Minister of Finance Mr Paweł Szalamach answers. [[Voice from the room: No one expects this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u54	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The composition of the Council fully secures all legitimate expectations of taxpayers. Your question, Mr President, is most normally misleading in the world because it is designed to include representatives of science, representatives of the judiciary, as well as representatives of the administration, but also local government. So that you do not mislead the House. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[But the professor asked about the spokesperson.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u55	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 175 voted against - 260, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the inserted article. 119o § 1 applicants propose to add a new point after point 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 171 voted against - 263, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the inserted article. 119o § 1 applicants propose to add a new point after point 7. That's another amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 196 against - 233. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. 119zc § 1 applicants propose that an application for a protective opinion be subject to a fee of 5 000. zł. The Commission requests that it be rejected. And here we have a question that Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz club15, is asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is simple: Why as much as 20,000. The state proposes, since 5,000. would be enough for a protective opinion? There are no rational reasons, at least I have not heard them so far in the debate, why this fee is as high as 20,000. Again, do you have 5,000? Doesn't it satisfy you? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u57	It was a question. I just don't know who. [[To the minister, to who?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 206 Members voted against - 226 and 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose that in Article. 239f § 1 add point 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The proposed amendment aims to allow administrative courts to be subject to review of decisions issued by the Minister of Finance before they are implemented, which means that implementation is suspended. Very often so far, the decisions that have been made have caused the ruins of entrepreneurs. The law is to be business-friendly, not oppressive. Question to the Minister of Finance, the Government of Law and Justice: Why are you afraid of administrative courts? No, that's basically rhetorical. You're not afraid of administrative courts. You want to have a mace in these tax laws that you'll hit by honest entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u59	There you go. As we have heard, this is a rhetorical question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 173 votes against - 230 and 31 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We've already considered Amendment 12. In Amendment 13. applicants propose that the draft law delete the article. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 167 votes against, 264 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 6 the draft law of the applicant proposes a new wording of paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The vote was 369, against - 10, with 60 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. The draft law of the applicant proposes that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2017. The Commission requests that it be rejected. And here's the question. The question is raised by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have introduced an amendment to the Act, which has made it possible to extend the tax advantage obtained after the date of entry into force of the Act. Previously, the record mentioned that the new provisions of the Act include acts carried out after the date of entry into force of the Act. After this change, traders may be punished for activities which have been carried out in accordance with the law. In addition, this change really raises constitutional doubts about the protection of acquired rights. Moreover, in fact, officials give themselves six months to adapt to a number of questionable issues, for example in terms of a protective opinion, and you left your entrepreneurs only 30 days to comply with often indefinite regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are therefore amending the amendment. I have a question for the Minister about what this change is for. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u61	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 176 voted against - 258, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members have come forward. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club. Then Mr. Wójcikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the dispute, it is necessary to take decisive action to seal tax law, to close the tax gap. This is what all the countries of the European Union do. Modern will also support this type of action, but there is no agreement and there will be no consent to the creation of bad law, legal bibles serving only to increase the authority of the official over entrepreneurs, laws which treat the Polish entrepreneur as a thief, as a criminal. This type of action will never be supported by the Modern. From the Polish stock exchange for a year since President Duda became president, 50 billion dollars have evaporated. Now the question to the Government of Law and Justice: When will you stop in the spoils of the Polish economy, in the spoils of Polish law? Then... [[Eight years!]] ...when you close down the stock market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're gonna let go... [[You've been in charge for eight years.]] ... Poles and Poles with bags? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u63	Please. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government proposes a law that strengthens the state's position in confronting the taxpayer's position. I understand that in some cases it is necessary. The bill has some flaws, but I understand that the interests of the state are at stake, and the results of the audit show that it is measurable. My question, however, is: Will the government also remember the interests of taxpayers? Will there also be laws that strengthen the rights of the taxpayer? Will you think about the Ombudsman of taxpayers' rights or any other solutions to respect taxpayers? Since the state is being robbed and tax revenues are small, it is one fact, but there is also another fact that many thousands of entrepreneurs, many thousands of taxpayers are being harassed by their own state and are often bankrupt and ruined simply because their interests and their rights are not fully respected. That's why I'm proposing and asking if they'll be there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] measures taken to better protect taxpayers from lawlessness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u65	Please. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Club Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said earlier, the clause is needed in Polish tax law. It has been under development at the Ministry of Finance for several years. Among other things, a definition was created, and a number of other solutions were created. However, as the quality of these rules is low, in particular those defending the rights of the taxpayer, the interests of the taxpayer are not taken into account here, nor are our amendments intended to improve this situation taken into account, and the Platform will abstain. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u67	Please. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 464, along with the amendment adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 241 voted against - 44, 152 Members abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Tax Order and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 489-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Maria Margaret Janyska... [[Voice from the room: Janyska.]] ... Janyska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its meeting yesterday considered the amendments tabled at second reading and in print No 489-A presents the results of its work. During the second reading, 12 amendments were tabled, of which six were tabled by the Civic Platform Club, and three were reported by Kukiz15, two were reported by the Modern Club, and one was reported by the Law and Justice Club. The Commission recommends adopting seven of them with numbers 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 and 12 and rejecting five of them with numbers 4, 5, 6, 10 and 11. The amendments which were tabled during the second reading, which were particularly clearly emphasised in the committee by Members of all clubs, with the exception of the Club of Law and Justice, are extremely important for maintaining the balance of market competition. Therefore, concerns were raised that several provisions of the project could lead to a distortion of this competition. Therefore, questions were raised as to whether or not the analyses were being carried out and what they were doing. Has an impact assessment been carried out according to which methodology? Have they been diagnosed with any potential risks? These concerns were expressed by the Members because the analysis on this subject was not included in the draft documents. The concerns of Members have been further strengthened, which was also stressed during the work on the second reading amendments, following the transmission of the host of this project, namely Prime Minister Morawiecki, who, a few hours earlier, before the second reading, presented in this House a pretend-audit and supposed-report on the state of the economy in Poland. The lack of analysis in these few records, and to this statement by the Prime Minister: once that the state of the economy is very good, it is in good condition, and recalling economic indicators, and in a moment information that the economy is destabilized and 20 years is not enough for us to rebuild it, can indicate that elements such as analysis, monitoring and forecasting are not used or are not taken into account. How else can one explain it, ladies and gentlemen, is a hesitation in such assessments. Such a nonchalant approach, which has been presented, raises our concerns that at these points we have been talking about, it may have a bad effect on the market. And the public procurement market, ladies and gentlemen, are billions of zlotys, hundreds of billions. Billions that were here, a little more than a day back, presented on these screens and that were so scared. With concern for these billions of zloty, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has adopted amendments which it believes are intended to ensure competitiveness in the market and asks the High House to accept them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u69	Thank you. The Commission also proposes that the draft Print Act 489 be adopted in its entirety, with possible amendments. We will vote first on minority proposals and amendments. All minority proposals and amendments 1 to 8 have been tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Public Procurement Law. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 applicants shall propose the addition of point 3a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 204 voted against 227, no one abstained. The motion of the minority of the Sejm rejected. In Amendment 1. to Article. The applicant shall submit a different wording to point 13 of point 4. a and b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 285, against 121, with 26. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2, to the inserted article. 4d paragraph 1 The applicants propose to delete point 6. Amendment 9 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 204 voted against - 232, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the second minority proposal, the following Article is added: 22a paragraph. 4 applicants propose to replace the words 'education, professional qualifications or experience' by 'professional skills'. This minority proposal brings together proposals 3 and 7. We will vote on these proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 2, 3, and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 203 voted against - 233, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 4th minority proposal, the following Article is added: 22d applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. There were 198 votes against - 231, and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In Amendment 3. to Article. 29 in the added mouth. 3a The applicants propose to delete the words indicated by the contracting authority. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 205 voted against - 231, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. 30 applicants propose e.g. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 point 2 new wording of the introduction into the calculation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 203 voted against - 235, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In Amendment 4. to Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose not to add points 12. to 15. Amendments 5 and 6 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. The adoption of these will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 7 and 12 and 6 of the minority proposal. The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. Especially to the State of the Law and Justice Club. Do you know the content of the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office addressed to Mr Lech Antoni Kołakowski? I suppose Mr Kołakowski knows the content of this opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, which did not leave a dry thread on the solution proposed by the government concerning the introduction of the so-called. in-house. This solution was also given a negative opinion by the Social Dialogue Council, which expressed its willingness to work on creating such records that would not be dangerous for Polish entrepreneurs. As I am not sure whether you know the content of this opinion... [[Voice from the room: We know!]] Do you know him? Nevertheless, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I propose a five-minute break so that you can read the content of this opinion so that you can consult so that you can vote with a clear conscience on the amendments that have been proposed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u71	This is a motion on behalf of the club, right? A request for a break? Then we'll be voting on the request for a recess. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[For the club.]] Unless the club withdraws its application. We are voting on a formal request for a recess because a formal request for a recess has been made during the course of the question. [[But for the club.]] I will put this proposal to the vote. [[But you don't vote for a recess for the club, Mr. Marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 193 Members voted against - 232, five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Voice from the hall: It was customary on behalf of the club.]] [[Voice from the room: Hands out of your pockets.]] [[It wasn't in his pocket.]] The Sejm's motion has been settled. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 4 to 6 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 86 Members voted against - 239, with 107 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants shall propose new wordings to be added in points 12 to 15 and to be added in paragraphs 1. 7, 17, 17, The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendments 7 and 12 irrelevant. The question is raised by Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is about in-house records, specifically the 6th minority request. Its aim is to civilise this in-house so that what was to become a rescue wheel actually was a rescue circle for public procurement in the field of public utility, and it was not some kind of norm that sanctioned pathology. For this reason, on behalf of the club, I ask for a five-minute break so that you can reflect on this minority proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u73	There you go. The reasons for this request force me to remind you that the Sejm has already settled the matter of the break. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Break for the club.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 51 Members voted against - 345 and 31 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In Amendment 7. to Article. Article 67 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose the addition of points 12 to 15 and paragraph 1. 7.1.18. Amendment 12 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. Members of the House have asked questions. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question for the marshal. Why are we voting for a club break when you don't vote for a club break? [[Applause]] That's the first question. You asked me to ask questions, so I'm asking questions. [[Mr President, listen to me.]] Second question. Why was the report and analysis prepared by the Sejm Analysis Office not actually taken into account? This bill leads to the liquidation of several hundred family businesses. [[Applause]] Prime Minister Morawiecki says he is betting on the Polish economy. How can you bet on the Polish economy if you are destroying Polish jobs, Polish companies and ruining them overnight? [[Applause]] How are we supposed to take you seriously? How can you say that you make sure that the Polish economy is competitive when you eliminate competitiveness in the actions of those small entities that simply disappear overnight and have no chance of winning the tender? Why are you returning to the socialist economy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u75	Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. The Member resigns. [[Mr. Marshal...]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mrs Janyska.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[The vote is on.]] [[Hello, Mr Marshal, the Member wishes to speak.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is here. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I volunteered as the committee's rapporteur.]] [[More attention, Marshal.]] 433 Members voted. 188 Members voted against - 240, five Members abstained. [[Come on, Gretel.]] [[As rapporteur.]] How do you want to perform? As the draftsman of the committee, right? There you go. The rapporteur of the committee shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u76	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As rapporteur for the committee at the beginning, I pointed out that the very important and highlighted by all Members of all clubs, with the exception of Law and Justice, was the fact of maintaining competitiveness in the market, not looking at the in-house case only by public administration and by public bodies. We cannot lead to market competition being disturbed. This law, as it is now going through, will unfortunately cause, which has already been apparent, a conflict between business and public administration, local governments and state units. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been explaining this from the very beginning of our work on this bill. At first reading we reported - all clubs, except PiS - that we should send this in-house back to a larger, deeper analysis, because really the competitiveness of the economy, billions of zlotys, which are already two days old in all discussions, are extremely important. In-house is not mandatory, in-house is optional. All the more reason for this is that we should give it a lot of attention and a lot of analysis, because there is plenty of space in the market and for private companies, and for public enterprises, please. Few of this, in-house is now absolutely unnecessaryly identified only with the waste management sector, and it concerns all the tasks facing public administration: local government and state government. I stress once again what all the clubs outside the PiS presented: we want a balance between private and local companies. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] We have also proposed that the relationship between services provided by private companies, by public companies for their owner and services provided to the open market be the same as in the Directive - 80 to 20 - because if we did in-house under market conditions, it would be absolutely necessary to restore this relationship, not to leave a relationship: 90 to 10. Ladies and gentlemen! There's still a way to verify it in the Senate. I hope that you will take this into account, especially since Prime Minister Morawiecki, as he said in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, is not in favour of this solution. Market balance between private entrepreneurs and public entrepreneurs is extremely important. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u77	Thank you, Commissioner, but in the future I encourage you not to go beyond the remit of the rapporteur of the committee. [[She didn't come out.]] [[Voice from the room: Question!]] Mr Zbigniew Ajchler reporting in what way? [[Formal.]] With a formal application? [[Yes.]] About this point, right? [[I think so.]] There you go. Please refer first to the article and paragraph of the proposal. [[Voice from the hall: And what else?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Can you put that in the microphone? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, can you say that to the microphone? Please, what's the article, the paragraph, the point? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Into the microphone!]] [[A voice from the hall: Gracefuls!]] [[But what is this, kindergarten?]] No, no. There's no such thing. Art. 184 is a formal conclusion. Step out of the podium, please. [[Applause]] In Amendment 8. to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 91. 2a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Mr President, please step out of the podium or I will force you to come down by the rules of procedure. [[Sign up for the question.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work!]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr... I'll read the results. 405 Members voted. There were 179 votes against and 224 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 8th minority proposal to Article. 91 in the added mouth. 7c applicants propose that the word "buildings" should be replaced by the words "buildings." We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. There were 173 votes against, 232 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 9th minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording of Article. 110. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 194 against - 235. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 10th minority proposal, applicants propose a new wording of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the And here Mr Zbigniew Ajchler raises the question. [[He's gone, he's gone.]] [[Voice from the room: It is, but where?]] [[Oh, there he is! It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I know, Mr. Marshal, it's Friday... [[The envoy drops something, the joy in the courtroom.]] I'm sorry. [[Voice from the hall: Friday the 13th!]] I know it's Friday and you'd be so keen to punish me as a Member. No one likes to be punished...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u79	Mr President, ask a question about the 10th minority proposal. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u80	Mr Marshal, I believe that Mrs Małgorzata Janyska, as rapporteur, clearly explained additional information to all Members...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u81	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, the question concerns the 10th question. a minority proposal. [[Voice from the courtroom: Don't disturb me, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u82	...and there should be sobriety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u83	Mr President, it is about prizes, the formula of prizes, not sobering. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the House's deliberations right now. [[Mr. Marshal, this is a scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u84	Mr. Marshal, if there's such a big threat to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u85	Mr President, ask a question to the 10th minority proposal. [[Voice from the room: But you're disturbing me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u86	Did he turn it off? [[Voice from the room: Hear, hear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u87	Ask a question to the 10th minority request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u88	Mr. Marshal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that in the event that such a big threat is among entrepreneurs... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...there should be a resummation of the vote in view of this... I know there should be 30 Members to sign... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...but the quality weight of this bill is so great, and I do not believe that there are no Members in this Chamber who do not wish well... [[But you're out of time.]] ...they don't want well for our business. I think... That's why I'm asking you to do this... I've looked at the rules of procedure, Mr. Marshal, where could you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u89	Thank you very much, sir, but this is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u90	...for unruly driving... [[Voice from the O.R.: Come down, stop.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u91	You are not referring to the 10th minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u92	...but there's no such rule.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u93	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't yell, ladies and gentlemen. 433 Members voted. The vote was 182, against - 232, with 19 Members holding back. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. 123 in the added paragraph. 3 applicants propose that the minutes include a ranking of the competition works together with a justification for the assessment made and the conclusions or recommendations of the competition court. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was 193 against - 232, 13 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 142 applicants propose to add point 6 in paragraph 1. 4 and the addition of point 4 in paragraph 4. 5. The question is asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, in order for there to be no doubt, I will ask the Members of the Law and Justice. Will you support the amendment of the Modern Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u95	Mr President, to the rapporteur or to the government. Please follow the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u96	I'm surprised the committee didn't recommend this amendment. Many times, as a governing party, you have declared that you will support entrepreneurs. [[Promises.]] There's a chance now, not an empty declaration. I'm going to introduce you to the rhetoric of the proposed amendment. As an example, between 2010 and 2012, oil prices increased by 44%, while the state monopoly, using the increase in asphalt contracts associated with a large number of road construction contracts, raised asphalt prices by 77%, which caused many road companies to go bankrupt. She couldn't have known that. 140 Members of the State [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's in Parliament again. That's when you protested, and today? The amendment concerns a situation where the price of key materials will increase in long-term contracts. Entrepreneur, entering into a long-term contract...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u97	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u98	...he couldn't have predicted it. It's just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u99	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u100	...to have the opportunity to renegotiate prices in such situations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u101	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[This scanner isn't working.]] 435 Members voted. There were 168 votes against and 242 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In Amendment 10, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Paweł Grabowski, a Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer again to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. You say you know her, but I'm going to quote something. The amendment to municipal waste management legislation introduced from 1 July 2013 significantly reduced competition in the municipal waste market. This law, which we are investigating here today, is eliminating competition in the municipal waste market. Thank you. Goodbye. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Goodbye.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u103	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 86 Members voted against - 264, 87 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 11, the applicants propose to add an article. 18a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Member Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz club15, with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time I will not refer to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. As far as this proposal is concerned, this amendment proposes some sort of regulation. With the new rules in place, new public procurement rules are to enter into force, we propose that the contracts that have already been concluded should be reviewed within a certain period of time so that all contracts previously concluded are verified, verified, so that they meet the new conditions laid down here by the law. So that I ask you to support this amendment. The question is this because I have to ask the question: Is it the intention of the state to liquidate competition in the public procurement market in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u105	I can't see, so we can vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[You can't vote.]] 431 Members voted. 68, against 267, abstained 96 Members. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members of the House are reporting. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki a question as to whether he had read the bill he had sent to the Sejm. I believe that after his public statements, he does not know this document, and this document has proved to be one legal bubble. To confirm that... This may be demonstrated by the fact that only the government has submitted more than 100 amendments to this document. In fact, only thanks to the huge commitment of the subcommittee led by Maria Małgorzata Janyska and cooperation with the social side have this law been radically improved, although it does not solve all issues, it is difficult, and it also does not solve because the Ministry of Development was completely unprepared for this law. It has not prepared any analyses, it does not show how the introduction of in-house into the public procurement market will affect. Yes, ma'am, it can't be. That's why only for one reason that since April 18 [[♪ The bell ♪]] We do not have the possibility to carry out public contracts for projects financed by European funds, the Civic Platform Club will abstain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u107	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about whose project this project is. Mr Morawiecki said clearly at the committee meeting: I am against in-house. When asked who prepared the project, we got the answer: the government side, the government. Therefore, I have serious doubts about the possibility of implementing the plan of Prime Minister Morawiecki, because one can ask what power of persuasion is given by Prime Minister Morawiecki at meetings of the government, since his, say, ideas, his ideas are completely trivialized, just as there are trivialized opinions about which you are asking for yourself. I will no longer quote a proposal concerning the opinion of the Venice Commission, which you have treated so highly, but also your club, Law and Justice, has requested an opinion from the Office of Sejm Analysis, which is very critical and which states that it is a very harmful act. As the Modern will always stand on the side of the Polish entrepreneur, small and small enterprises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We were forced by you to vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u109	Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I was hoping maybe a little naive, but still hope that this bill would be a good bill. This was also the hope of hundreds of Polish entrepreneurs and tens of thousands of employees they employ. Unfortunately, it turns out that on 13 May 2016, in addition to Friday the 13th, it is the day of a specific funeral of Polish entrepreneurs. You do not just take a step backwards, you jump back, you jump back to the Polish People's Republic, you jump back to the state economy, you move away from the free market economy. And as for these entrepreneurs, well, lighten up, Lord, over their soul. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u111	Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u112	Mr. Marshal! My statement is for counterweight. [[You can't do this.]] Because we're talking about entrepreneurs, we're talking about local governments. We also need to talk about the most important... [[Question.]] ...that's about consumers. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, that's right, prices are higher.]] If we're talking about garbage, don't pretend that you don't know that taking over, intercepting the garbage market by powerful companies and dominating the market consequently leads to very significant, irreversible price increases. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the hall: I've grown.]] And this bill isn't perfect. Prime Minister Morawiecki enjoys great authority in the club, but fortunately he is not an oracle... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] ...because woe if people are an oracle. So the discussion is acceptable. [[Voice from the room: For whom? Ha, ha, ha.]] I am aware that I have been asked by people who have unfortunately already experienced these price increases when it is already good-bye and the municipality does not have the slightest chance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: There is no competition.]] Business and money here are clear and audible. This bill isn't perfect... [[This bill raises prices.]] ...but reduces risks and protects consumers' interests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u113	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A burning speech by the Member, but the Member has not worked on this law, so I think he does not know the provisions. Those who have worked on this law know very well what matter it is, how difficult, how complex, how extensive, how extensive it was to analyse thousands of pages of material, to listen to the social side, to listen to the government and to carry out various own analyses, because in many cases there was no government. And what was proposed by the committee, voted during the work of the committee at second reading, has just ensured market balance and competitiveness, and competitiveness and market balance are extremely important to the customer. That's why it's supposed to be kept so that this client, who is the ultimate recipient of all events on the market, has the best conditions. Unfortunately, I regret to say that some of the High House did not understand. Of course, this law also implements EU directives, and probably many Members will have a dilemma here, because the directives must be implemented, but on the other hand, so many optional tasks have been added, which have distorted, perhaps, your opinions on this law. We warned, we said all the time, there were a lot of voices, so that what is not mandatory, but is optional, put aside and calmly analyze when changing the whole public procurement system. Ladies and gentlemen, at the subcommittee meetings, the committee - you can analyze the transcripts and recordings - there was no politics at all. I didn't allow this by doing the work of the subcommittee, because politics, even for the moment, as with this supposedly-audit, cannot be applied to the market. That was the way the work was done. And I ask the High House to take this into account in the vote on the whole, and if not, when passing this project on to the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u115	Thank you very much. Member States have tabled themselves as corrected. [[May I?]] Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski knows a lot of things, and here he knows full respect, but in the economy, well, not exactly... [[Voice from the hall: He knows, he knows.]] ...that's why I'm going to say that this is the first time there's been a situation where the restriction of competition will have an impact on price reductions. No, just a lack of competition makes the prices by municipal companies to be set at the amount they like. The lack of competition will simply lead to these prices. We are trying to ensure that municipal entities can participate in tenders for these services as well as private entities. [[Right.]] Tenders are the best way for the recipients of these services to actually pay as low as possible. We don't want to let that happen. At that time, municipal entities could not carry out these services. That's not what this bill is for. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, this bill carries one more danger. There may be a situation when local governments are exempted from tenders for the transfer of their rights and orders to municipal companies, which can widen the scope, and it will not only be companies that take out garbage, it will be companies that renovate apartments, it will be companies... [[Room voice: Marketing.]] ...which will take care of the green, they will be companies that will build and repair roads. How will you limit the monopoly of municipal companies to such services? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the basis of economics. Competition is very important, especially as regards the possibility of competing small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u117	I have to put up a lot of effort to consider this speech to be an act of correction. In the correction mode, Mr Paweł Grabowski is reporting - I would only ask for the correction procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Mr Cymanski, I like you and I respect you, just as I do every member of the House who is not here, but I must ask you what you are saying, Mr President. How can the price of municipal services be increased if a tenderer is selected under tendering procedure? [[And the cheapest price.]] And the cheapest price in addition. If there is a selected trader who will perform the service in question, how will this price be increased later in the course of the contract? This is perhaps not as impossible as it is difficult to do. On the other hand, if the contract is awarded free of charge, first, the price can be determined freely and, in the case of exports, the municipal council will be able to increase the price for the export of waste. Here I am asking a question and I hope that this question will also reach the citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u119	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u120	Wait, no, no, one thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u121	You have corrected your misunderstood statement. [[But, Marshal, 40 more seconds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u122	Mr. Marshal, let me finish, I have 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u123	But straighten it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u124	How have the trash export charges increased over the last years since the amendment of the law on cleanliness and cleanliness in municipalities? They've grown. [[Voice from the room: Have you heard of price conspiracies?]] The municipalities will now be able to raise these charges freely. The state in this situation introduces a new paratax. [[Ask the voters.]] Citizens will pay more for community services. Municipal services will be provided by municipal and municipal companies. Well, pure socialism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u125	Thank you. The formal proposal is made by Mr Sławomir Neumann.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of such an exciting discussion, I would ask for a 15-minute break for the Platform Club before the final vote so that we can discuss our position further.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u127	Mr. President, maybe 10 minutes. [[Voice from the room: 15 minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: 15 minutes, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u128	15 minutes, 'cause by the time we get to the gym, time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u129	Please, I'm announcing a 15-minute break. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Vote from the court: Mr. Marshal, vote.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, why aren't we voting?]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 44 hours 11 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda. [[With a formal application.]] Mr Jakubiak with a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u130	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! We have just witnessed a situation in which Kukiz15, when applying for a break, was treated by your marshal not the way the Civic Platform was treated. [[Applause]] [[Worse sort.]] In fulfilling the rules, in order for the marshal to be satisfied, I request a break and a call of the Senior Convention, so that the marshal may refer to such a specific situation, where he treats some of them worse as a representative of the entire Sejm and others better. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u131	I do not agree with the opinion of the Member. [[I'm sorry.]] First of all, and actually without any of them, first of all. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I inform the High House that it is, yes, the custom of reporting, of granting breaks at the request of the club, if it is a request for a break to reflect on its own matters, and not that another club thinks... [[The voice from the hall: Censor?]] ...as we have seen in the case of a request made by you by your Member. [[Which section of the Rules of Procedure says that?]] We proceed to the vote on the whole of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and some other laws. [[Voice from the room: But it doesn't work...]] [[It's not working...]] Is it working or not working? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[At least it doesn't work on this side.]] It's working. I have information that it's working. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 489, along with the amendment adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. Three Members abstained from voting 247 against 186. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Public Procurement Law and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts (print No 460). In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the National Defence Committee for consideration. The question was asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u132	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On the question, I will explain that the Modern Posel Club has requested that the bill be rejected at first reading. The reason is obvious, this project brings nothing but the name. It is a project that pursues only human resources policy. If anyone had any doubts, I already explained yesterday that the tasks of the current academy are the same as the tasks of the new academy. The property of the existing academy goes to the new academy. The structure of the current academy goes to the new academy. The authorities of the current academy are also moving on to the new academy. There's also proverbial dust on the furniture. The only difference, apart from the name, is visible in the article. 5. It's a brutal trial with the National Defence Academy employees. I would therefore like to ask whether it is true that people associated with you do not have the right qualifications to normally take up exposed positions at the Academy of National Defence, because such hearing occurred to us yesterday during the debate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u133	Please. Mr Czesław Mroczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we adopted a resolution on the 200th anniversary of the University of Warsaw, worshiping this great university, while worshiping it, expressing appreciation for higher education in Poland due to the legal, pro-state action of universities in Poland. However, at the moment we are dealing with a law, with a draft law which assumes the liquidation of a higher school in Poland, the Academy of National Defence, and this liquidation on just scandalous terms, because the reason for this liquidation is the resistance of the academic community against the changes proposed by the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. Minister Macierewicz's nominate, prof. Żyro's change attorney at this university, has been notified to the dean of one of the departments. He's been rejected twice by the faculty board. In order to overcome the resistance of this environment, it was decided to break down, eliminate [[♪ The bell ♪]] college. [[Scandal!]] That's not even what the communists did in 1968. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] As a result of the repression, the departments were liquidated at the time. Now there's an idea to shut down the entire university. In this attack against the academic community of the Academy of National Defence, the most stringent means are used. It's just an outrageous act. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u135	Thank you, sir. These questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Prof. Dr. Hab, for example - because some of the statements were not in the form of questions. Wojciech Fałkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions or, in fact, the accusations of Members, I would like to make it clear: the University of Rembertów, the National Defence Academy, will not be abolished. On the one hand, You are accusing us that we want to lead to liquidation, destruction of a renowned, excellent university, on the other hand you say that the project does not bring anything, that it is really just a cover for staff changes. Then make up your mind, I'm asking you to finally tell me whether it's one or the other, either. [[Voice from the room: Both.]] I want to make our intentions and actions clear. This university must respond to the challenges of today's geopolitical situation, both military and political. What is happening in our neighbourhood is not only leading to political analysis, but also to a clear development of the model. Second thing. This school must be very well suited to the needs of the army. We want to put the title of a diplomat in the path of military career, restore this title. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Shame. It's just a shame.]] [[Voice from the hall: Shame and shame.]] [[Disgraceful, Professor.]] [[Professor education.]] We clearly want to introduce this title as valid for top-level staff officers. And finally, one last thing. The level of this university aroused and aroused not only our doubts, but also our opposition. Before joining anything, we ordered an audit at an independent consulting firm, asked for the opinion of officers from the General Staff and we also prepared this thoroughly. We're not gonna throw anybody out for political opinions, we're not gonna take anybody out because he thinks otherwise. [[A voice from the hall: But a great grace.]] We want to introduce this school into a network of renowned universities and Western experts in close proximity and in close contact with good experts and scientists from these universities. This university needs to get a new opening, a new impulse, and open itself up to the world. That's another thing we want to do. This must, of course, involve deep restructuring and staff changes... [[Slowing down.]] ...because it's people, professors and didactics who decide the level of each university, every academy. And every academy changes its personal composition, its personal composition, in terms of scientists and lecturers. For many years, this university has been clotting and cultivating traditions of the political academy, a creation created in 1947 by General Rola-Żymierski. [[It's a lie.]] We want to refer to the tradition of the Higher War School and we will treat this tradition as forming and shaping character, morale and spine of a Polish officer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u137	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts, contained in print No 460, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 167 votes against - 270, 2 abstentions. I state that the Sejm rejected the request and therefore referred this project to the National Defence Committee for consideration. We are returning to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In Amendment 1. to Article. Paragraph 7 1 The Senate proposes, by adding paragraph 11.15, to extend the catalogue of data referred to in that provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 37 votes against, 397 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 2. to Article. Paragraph 7 3 The Senate proposes, inter alia, that the data contained in the public register should concern the persons and matters referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was 2 against - 408, with 27. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 3. to Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, 3 and 4 The Senate proposes, inter alia, that the data on the persons referred to in that provision be deleted from the register also after receipt of the notice of the restoration of the period to appeal a decision recorded in the register or the revocation of such a decision as a result of the deletion or resumption of proceedings. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 3, against - 436, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 4. The Senate by the addition of an article. 18a proposes, inter alia, that the information bureau should take specific actions in the event of the likelihood of entering personal data contrary to the content of the decision, which do not correspond to the records in the relevant documents or which are not factually correct. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 2, against - 436, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 5. to Article. The 12th Act on the National Criminal Register of the Senate proposes among others. the extension of the catalogue of data to be included in the registration card referred to in that provision where certain provisions are laid down in the legal qualification adopted in the judgment. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. The absolute majority is 221. The vote was 2 against - 410, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 6. to Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Senate's Personal Evidence Act by adding point 13a proposes that the powers resulting from this provision should also be conferred on the Minister of Justice. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. One Member voted against - 408, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 7. to Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 of the Senate proposes to delete the joint part. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Nobody voted against - 414, with 24 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 8. The Senate by the addition of an article. 27a proposes a transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 8, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Nobody voted against - 408, 27 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and some other laws. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 24. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Polish Charter Act. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12, 16, 23 and 28. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12, 16, 23 and 28, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 1 Member voted against 431, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 8a The Senate in the new wording of paragraph 1. 1 proposes changes to the money provision referred to in that provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 3, against 327, with 108 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 8c (8) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is replaced by the following: Point 1 of the Senate proposes that the words "granting the benefit' be replaced by "granting the benefit of the money'. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Nobody voted against, everybody voted against. The Sejm unanimously accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 8c (8) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is replaced by the following: 3 The Senate proposes that monetary benefits should not be included in the income referred to in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Social Assistance Act. Amendment 25 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7 and 25 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The Sejm accepted the amendments unanimously. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 point 2 of the Senate proposes to extend the contents of the register referred to in that provision to appeal against the decision of the voivodships. Amendments 17 and 21 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10, 17 and 21 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. No one voted against - 430, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Senate proposes to delete point 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was 389 against - 46, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th amendment to the article. 12 The Senate in the new wording of paragraph 12. 1 proposes that this provision also extends the validity of the Polish Charter. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 14 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 15th amendment to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Senate proposes editorial and legislative changes. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220 Members. The vote was 389 against 49 and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 18th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the provisions concerning the loss of validity of the Polish Charter as a result of the acquisition of citizenship or the obtaining of a permanent residence permit by its holder. Amendment 27 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 18 and 27 would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The absolute majority is 216. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 19th amendment to the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Senate proposes among others. the word "interested' is replaced by the words "the holder or his statutory representative'. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 19th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 19 point 6 of the Senate proposes that the decision not to grant the Polish Charter should also be taken if the applicant participates in human rights violations. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 20th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The absolute majority is 215. 1 Member voted against - 428. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 22 The Senate proposes among others. amendment of the part of the common calculation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 22nd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. 24c The Senate proposes to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2 and delete paragraph 2. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 7 of the Act on Polish Citizenship The Senate proposes that the required period of continuous stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland of the foreigner referred to in this provision should be one year. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 26th amendment would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219 Members. Two Members voted against - 435. Nobody's holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 29th amendment to the article. The 7th Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provision. Amendment 30 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 29 and 30 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are returning to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 5. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Public Roads Act. In the first amendment to Article. 16e paragraph. 1 and Article 1 16h The Senate proposes among others. the other wording of the introduction into the calculation. Amendments 3 to 5 are combined with this amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 3 to 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Everyone voted against. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. Article 16f (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 6 and Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 391 against - 47, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 6th Amendment to the Senate in the amendment to the Law, Article. 2a proposes a transitional provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 6th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. Four Members voted against - 431, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 The Senate proposes to amend the provision concerning persons admitted for the first year of study in the 2016/2017 academic year. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The vote was 2 against 434, with 2 abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 5 The Senate proposes to amend the provision concerning the categories of scientific units of the academy. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. The vote was 2 against - 428, 2 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 7 The Senate proposes to amend the provision on the application of Article. 3 (1) (a) 5 Law on Higher Education. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The absolute majority is 217. 1 Member voted against 431, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The first sentence of the Senate proposes that this provision should apply to single and collegial bodies. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. No one voted against - 435, 1 member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 509). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 509, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 416 against - 8, 4 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 33 hrs. 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Information provided by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the actions resulting from the National Mental Health Programme in 2014 (Print No 176) together with the position of the Health Commission (Print No 457). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Jarosław Pinkas to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to inform you about the implementation of the activities resulting from the 2014 National Mental Health Programme. This report is the implementation of the obligation laid down in the Law of 19 August 1994 on the protection of mental health. The document under consideration today is a report from the fourth year of implementation of the National Mental Health Programme for the period 2011 to 2015 aimed at modernising and adapting psychiatric care to the problems of modern society. During the implementation of the programme, there was a significant increase in the financial resources allocated to psychiatric care. According to recent data, these measures have increased by more than 115% compared to 2011, i.e. since the start of the programme. Thus, the provision of psychiatric care in the field of environmental treatment was financed up to 107% higher than in 2011. At the same time, there was an increase in the number of patients receiving environmental treatment from 10 628 in 2011 to 24 000. in 2014. During the four-year implementation of the programme, the activity of local self-government units, education and prevention activities, and promotions aimed at people with mental disorders, which resulted in an increase in professional activation and social inclusion of people with mental problems. So far, local authorities have shown an increasing initiative in the implementation of the programme's tasks during the duration of the programme. On the basis of the implementation of local health promotion programmes in the municipalities, it can be concluded that, as far as the overall number of recipients is concerned, the programme covered as many as 356 thousand. people compared to 42,000. in 2011. The implementation of the programme so far calls not only for recognition of the need to continue it, but also for a summary of some areas that will be taken into account in the coming years in relation to the implementation of the programme as regards the need to provide funding for the future implementation of the programme. It is important here to set out in the National Health Programme the tasks of promoting mental health and the prevention of mental disorders as an operational objective, the implementation of which is primarily intended to ensure systematic funding. As part of the implementation of the National Mental Health Programme, it is important to promote the environmental model of psychiatric health care in the following years, among others. by creating mental health centres. At the same time, referring to your many questions on this subject, I would like to point out that the development of environmental psychiatry is one of the main objectives of the future edition of the National Mental Health Programme. The Minister of Health has also set up a team for piloting the environmental psychiatry programme under the National Mental Health Programme, which will assist the Ministry of Health in preparing the implementation rules and in implementing the piloting of psychiatric environmental care, together with the draft provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation on the National Mental Health Programme. It is also necessary to monitor the health status of the adult population as well as the youngest population in terms of the spread of psychiatric disorders. This monitoring is an important element in identifying the scale of the phenomenon and developing effective mental health prevention programmes. It also has a significant impact on preventing problems in this area. With the current National Health Programme, action will be taken to enable the public to take action to protect, strengthen and enhance mental health potential and prevent mental disorders. However, the continuation of the National Mental Health Programme in the years to come is not only due to the systematic increase in the number of people treated for mental disorders in our country, but also due to the clearly anticipated development of this trend in the future due to an increase in the level of social threats to mental health such as unemployment, poverty, violence or the relaxation of social ties. It is therefore necessary to continue and take effective measures to improve indicators on the current mental health system as part of a multifaceted approach to the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u139	Thank you, Minister. I ask Mr Mark Hok to present his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Health Commission, print No 457, concerning the document that was received by the Sejm on 8 January 2016, print No 176, i.e. information on the implementation of the actions resulting from the 2014 National Mental Health Programme. This document was addressed to the Health Commission on 13 January, which was examined on 27 April 2016 at the Health Committee meeting. This, of course, raised many questions and discussions. In general, a very positive trend, which was noted, also underlined in the Minister's information, was that during the period of this programme, i.e. in 2011 and 2015 financial expenditure on healthcare provision was significantly increased: psychiatric care, treatment of addictions, because by more than 15% , and the fact that already in 2014 the financial resources for the provision of psychiatric care provided in the field of environmental treatment were increased. What is particularly worth emphasising is that psychiatric treatment should be carried out as widely as possible in open, environmental medicine. Funding was increased by as much as 105% compared to 2011. It is also important that the number of subjects involved in this environmental treatment has increased to 124. In 2011 there were only 64 such entities. What is very important is what we also talked about at the Health Committee meeting, that the priority for this direction of the programme is the establishment of mental health centres. This is a priority action by the Ministry of Health. It is also important that these centres are enshrined in the Public Health Act of 11 September 2015. These centres will provide comprehensive health care to people with mental disorders in a specific territorial area. This will result in these centres being able to be established in an area inhabited by between 50 and 200 thousand. In any county, in any large municipality or in a large district of a large city, they can be established. It is also important that a basket of guaranteed benefits is being completed, which will provide funding for psychiatric care and addiction treatment, precisely those benefits that will be guaranteed in mental health centres. An important element was the discussion on how to further support the training of medical staff by financing residencys for professionals and doctors who want to work in the field of mental health. During the discussion, we drew attention to the growing, unfortunately, tendency to commit suicide attempts, to depression, especially in young people of school age, during middle school, upper secondary school, and therefore we consider this openness to environmental treatment to be the most important in further work on the mental health programme. Therefore, after a rather long and constructive discussion, the committee voted on this information and asks for the information from print No 176. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u141	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Law and Justice have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The mental health programme is very important and it is very good that it has such a broad strategy. This strategy assumes this three-point view: reducing mental health risks, improving the quality of life of people with mental disorders and their loved ones, and ensuring the availability of health care services, promoting health, providing people with mental disorders with multilateral and widely available health care, and placing a great deal of emphasis on the development of research. After reviewing this program with regret, I found that there are few studies, maybe it is just a specific age, mental health and epidemiology of mental illness in children, but experts assume that 50% all diseases in children are present until they are 14 years old. Therefore, it is important to place a great deal of emphasis on this group of people, i.e. young children and young people, because early diagnosis of disorders may prevent them from developing on a larger scale. It is also very good that the programme involves the establishment of psychiatric care centres and leads to deinstitutionalisation in the care of mentally ill people, which will make them able to live in their own environment, close to their family. The Law and Justice Club evaluates information about the mental health programme positively, welcomes the fact that work will continue, and will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u143	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the implementation of the National Mental Health Programme 2014 adopted by the Council of Ministers. The old Polish proverb says that in a healthy body a healthy spirit. This motto is hard to deny, although it can be successfully reversed. As a family doctor, I have no doubt that happy people are relatively less ill with somatic diseases and recover more quickly. The good state of every person's psyche is therefore in the interests of society as a whole. Human mental health, unlike somatic health, is determined by incomparably more factors, the extent of which often remains a mystery. Some personality traits are inherited, others are acquired by the environment in which we are present, or by the powerful events of life. Some of us are cheerful and lively reacting to reality, while others are reflective and slow in action. These qualities make each of us cope differently with stress. At different times he overcomes the adversities of fate and needs different forms of support. In view of the above and in anticipation of the next vote in the discussion, I would like to point out that the formulation of firm zero-one assessments of the state's mental health policy requires a lot of caution and expertise. Consequently, this policy requires a lot of effort in various areas. First of all, I would like to point out that the National Mental Health Programme, since its inception, has very well defined the main three objectives. In my opinion - I ask the Minister of Health to treat her as a kind advice resulting from the concern for the health of all of us, Poles - it would be good if these priorities remained unchanged for the next years. In mental health policy, it is clear that first of all it should focus on prevention, as in every field of care for the health of Poles, i.e. prevention of mental disorders, but in no case neglecting comprehensive, universally accessible and high-quality medical care. Above all, it is important to keep in mind that careful research is carried out, which will take into account specific existential circumstances, and to benefit from other research. A lot has been written about prevention activities in the information, but unfortunately not always specifically. It has been mentioned e.g. the right decision to place particular emphasis on early diagnosis and intervention, but unfortunately no assumptions have been made as to the new conditions for the implementation of guaranteed benefits. Similarly, it should be strongly commended for setting up a programme for the prevention of suicide using the European Union's resources and at the same time a bit of reprimand for the lack of details and detailed solutions. I understand that since this programme was initiated in 2014, the relevant news will only be included in the next year's information. Of course, we are not entirely satisfied with this because in 2014 it was also decided to implement a programme for the prevention of depression for the period 2015-2019, and this one was very precise and contains prognostic elements. I remind you of this because reading the information strengthens the stereotype that the institutions of the state prioritise the issue of depression as far as they can, and still treat the phenomenon of developmental disorders of children's age, which is not true and should not be a standard. Therefore, in closing the issue of prevention, I would ask that it be described in more detail in the following years, with mechanisms of action, which will also facilitate more data in the course of the implementation of the programmes. Turning to the summary of psychiatric care, there is no way to overlook the steady and clear increase in spending on psychiatric care and drug treatment from 2011 onwards. This is a trend which, on the one hand, expresses awareness of the importance of the problems of the modern world and, on the other hand, demonstrates the courage to increase the budget's budget for actions that the effects of which are vain to seek here and now. Of course, increased funds do not have to mean more effective psychiatric care, albeit an increase in the availability of health services - yes. It is good to look at the growing statistical columns that determine the number of patients who have been helped in the following years under outpatient, daily, fixed psychiatric conditions or under domestic treatment conditions. The only thing that can seriously bother us is the increasing number of addicts, especially alcohol, who require psychiatric attention. I think this is the moment to honestly say to myself that the hope of reducing alcoholism, along with the increase in the wealth of citizens, has proved deceptive. In this respect, it seems that systemic and breakthrough solutions are needed. Glory to the Minister of Health, and perhaps also to the ministers of the economy and finance, who dare to carry out such solutions. I don't think that's gonna happen soon. Abstracting from the last thought, I would like to point out that doctors in the field of psychiatry are coming in Poland, mainly psychiatry of children and young people, although the shortages in this area are still enormous. Given that the reverse trend is accompanied by almost all other medical specializations, this is extremely good news. In view of the limited time I have spoken in relation to the implementation of psychiatric care by selected entities, I will limit myself to discussing the role of local governments. From the information provided as per the palm of the hand, it can be seen that the municipalities, and in particular the districts, do not want to deal with improving the availability of various forms of psychiatric health care. The main reason is the lack of resources, but also the necessary infrastructure and properly prepared and well paid educators. It is not good when in 228 districts only 72 decide to introduce local expansion, differentiation and modernization programs for help and support for people with mental disorders. In my opinion, the Ministry of Health is today in a situation where it should either remove the tasks in question from local governments or create conditions that will involve all municipalities and districts, not only the most prosperous ones, led by light and responsible people, in this matter. In conclusion, I will briefly address the third objective of the National Mental Health Programme, i.e. for scientific research - short, because unfortunately not much has been written in this regard. It is hard not to think that the work of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Science and Higher Education is, unfortunately, quite cheap in this matter. Although 192 projects were carried out with the support of the National Science Centre for PLN 23.5 million and 25 multiannual projects for PLN 18 million, thanks to the National Centre for Research and Development, it is impossible to learn from the information about the scale, scope and effects of these projects. If I could ask the Minister for information in writing on this matter. I suggest that in future years we explore in this passage the detail of the messages transmitted to the High House, because I presume there are many achievements that, if we had them in the information, we could also promote practically in our districts and not only. Regardless of all the comments and reflections made on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform recommends accepting the information requested in this section. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u145	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For many years, we have seen an increasing mental illness at an alarming rate. This does not apply to psychosis, where, as in schizophrenia, a steady proportion of patients is maintained at around 1% The population, however, is particularly concerned with depressive anxiety disorders. The social and economic impact of this phenomenon is one of the biggest problems in the European Union, as the costs concern both the deterioration of family relationships and the significant reduction in labour productivity. At the same time, a number of modern medicines have been introduced into treatment in recent decades, e.g. 2nd generation neuroleptics whose use allows for better control of particularly serious psychotic disorders. The basic standard of modern psychiatry was to move away from a closed asylum psychiatric model for the development of environmental psychiatry. In addition, in the European Union countries, changes have been ongoing in order to eliminate psychiatric piers, i.e. hospitals with several hundred beds, in order to create smaller branches within multi-profile hospitals. This latest solution allows to improve the internal, radiological or neurological supply of psychiatric patients due to the improvement of logistics. Unfortunately, these changes do not include our country, and the National Mental Health Programme is an absolute fiction. There are still large psychiatric combinations where patients are often unnecessarily long weeks. Conditions in these centres They often insult all manner of decency. The symbol of this pathology is the situation in the leading centre, the Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology in Warsaw, where damaged, often mushroomed rooms, decompleted staff do not allow patients to be treated in decent conditions. These pathologies are additionally linked to the fact that benefits in terms of psychiatry is valued at the lowest level: 12 PLN per point. Numerous calls from the psychiatric community to increase funding and not limit it to funds from the NFZ, and to fund directly from the budget the model of other health services departments remained uninspired. We call for the programme to be taken seriously and to improve and change the way in which psychiatric services are financed, to put emphasis, like the leading countries of the European Union, on environmental care. Today in hospitals, patients often get tired, who could be treated more cheaply and efficiently under the supervision of environmental team specialists in their homes. This would also promote better social inclusion of these people and contribute to a much better functioning of their families. The mental illness of one of the family members disturbs to a great extent the functioning of the loved ones. A separate issue is patient access to outpatient care. In some parts of the country, they must wait for months to visit a specialist. Sometimes it leads to suicide. The patient suffers very much and cannot afford a private visit. Changes should also be made to the system of training for doctors, as patients with neurotic, depressive and anxiety disorders, and among the elderly, dementias represent a powerful social percentage. Family doctors and internists should be better trained in the diagnosis of basic diseases and the use of psychopharmacology to the extent necessary. In turn psychiatrists themselves in the process of specialization training are not trained in psychotherapy, which is an extremely important tool of therapy, often more important than pharmacotherapy. We are also calling, as the leading countries of the European Union, for us to move away from the models of large hospitals to branches working within multi-profile hospitals. Another important issue is negligence in the field of prevention. This applies especially to young people. However, the lack of response to the common social phobia in the paediatric population, which can be effectively treated with psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy, significantly weakens the chances in this social group of success in the future. Children are not professionally consulted, interventions occur only in extreme cases. Finally, governments must understand that if they fail to take care of society's mental well-being, in which the problem of depression grows avalanchely, the saving and implementation of a mental health programme will generate powerful social costs in the form of a fall in quality of work, increasing social pathology, a huge amount of sick leave, permanent loss of people from professional and social roles, the cost of breaking up families, accidents, crime. Therefore, everything I said earlier, the Kukiz Members Club15 cannot support this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u148	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting our position on the implementation of the National Mental Health Programme on behalf of the Poselski Club. The National Mental Health Programme launched by the Council of Ministers Regulation of 28 December 2010 has, of course, a noble basis in itself. Praise the then Minister of Health for taking action to take care of the most important aspect of human health. Looking into the information on the implementation of this programme, I took note of the regulation I mentioned, and I was concerned that the programme lacked strict targets for the years to come. The most important aspect of any programme, i.e. a meaningful achievement of the objectives, has been completely overlooked. The report contains a great deal of information relevant for planning future actions. However, it is difficult to bear the financial expenditure incurred with a short or long-term objective, which, as I have already mentioned, simply does not exist. This way of running the program is unacceptable to me because it prevents the actual verification of actions taken by specific institutions or offices. As can be seen from the outset, the amount of expenditure on psychiatric care and drug treatment increased by 15% between 2011 and 2014. However, there is a lack of information about previous expenditures, and therefore it cannot be reasonably concluded whether this is really due to the implementation of the programme or to the natural growth resulting from the improvement of the financial situation of Poles. The accumulated GDP growth at that time was around 11%. When confronting data from the report with economic data, growth does not look as impressive as the authors would like to present it. On the other hand, I am very happy to see the quantitative growth of educated mental health professionals. However, it wonders another fact that in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship the number of psychotherapists of addiction was exactly zero, when in the case of similar number of inhabitants of the Łódź voivodship there were as many as 103. Unfortunately, there is no indication of the reasons for this. At this point, it is essential to examine the reasons for such a high diversity in the attractiveness of the various regions for addictive treatment professionals. Similar divergences, as in the case of the number of specialists, occur in the case of measures intended by voivodships and powiats for the protection of mental health. Two voivodships have allocated less than 100,000. £ per year. In addition, 55 counties and more than 200 municipalities did not even allocate a zloty to support these activities. I think we are all aware of the fact that good results cannot be achieved without the support of these actions at local level. Only local support can help achieve goals such as reducing suicides or effective treatment of addictions leading to mental illness. Of course, all these allegations are already partly obsolete, because this is a report where only the 2015 data appears, while it covers 2014 as a whole. As a Member with a relatively small parliamentary internship, I cannot go on the agenda over the fact that we are discussing at this point the situation that took place, practically a year and a half ago. Such functioning causes enormous delays during the response of the Sejm, the Minister of Health and the relevant institutions to changing realities. This time is simply lost, and this translates into the lives of sick people and unfortunately to the number of people who have decided to take the most desperate step. Only in 2014 more than 6 thousand people have taken their own lives, and the trend regarding the number of suicide attempts is unfortunately growing over the last 25 years. That is why, in my opinion, a year of delay in reporting on such important issues is unacceptable, because this translates directly into human life, mainly to young people who are at the highest risk. In conclusion, I would like to say that the purpose of the report is above all to draw conclusions and that the programmes should have the most specific objective in the future, so that appropriate conclusions can be drawn and effective action taken. It is very worrying that the number of suicides has increased despite the programme that we are talking about. At this point, the question arises as to whether it would not be advisable to introduce a separate programme aimed at already directly targeting the fight against suicide. However, on behalf of the Modern Posel Club, we will vote in favour of the report, hoping to adopt our comments, so that the next reports will address the state of play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u149	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u150	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We are leaning down today, we are examining the document submitted by the Minister of Health on a very important area of ministry activity, in which we should also engage as a society in which local government should also engage independently of the level. The consequences, the lack of commitment, the lack of countering these phenomena have already been mentioned by my previous speakers. I think it is important that this document shows us the work of the Minister, the Ministry, shows cooperation with local authorities, points to areas, directions and moments that need to be taken into account in changing realities, in changing realities, concerning the functioning of broadly understood medical care, and conditions that can undoubtedly affect and stimulate the occurrence of an increasing number of cases of mental health patients. In this document we see positive elements. One thing I will point out is that direct expenditure on programmes and actions in this area has increased. It is good that there is a change of direction, that we see the possibility of leaving closed centres, leaving closed treatment and creating other facilities such as mental health centers. This is certainly the way out - the adoption of these new orientations, new trends that should be taken into account in order to be able to produce certain results. Let me stop at these facilities - whether individuals or entities - that will be created. There are mental health centers in the plan. It is good that the area has been defined, the limits or the size of the numbers have been indicated in terms of how the centre will interact. But I believe that the development of environmental psychiatry should be based on the existing social care infrastructure, which has many years of experience in caring for socially dysfunctional persons and properly identifying needs in the field. It should remain up to the health department to treat people with mental disorders. Therefore, psychiatric care centres should remain in social care structures that can cooperate with health care structures and employ psychiatric doctors where appropriate. Because you can also ask yourself whether the mechanical or appropriate establishment of mental health centres with centres of environmental psychiatry will not duplicate existing social care structures and will therefore unnecessarily increase the cost of psychiatric care. I think that this is a matter for ongoing analysis, it is about ongoing monitoring of the situation so that we can respond flexibly to specific phenomena. Another area I would like to draw attention to, even though it is also in the programme, and in the statements, and in the Ministry's assumptions, is the suggestion to go away from closed medicine or to create open units. Or more open, close to society... I think, however, that it is necessary - as life shows - to maintain or ensure the proper functioning of closed medical centres. I will say here on the example of the Świętokrzyski Centre for Psychiatry in Moravia, how important this institution is, how important these issues are and that there is a need - it is undisputed - for this facility to function. Of course, these centres or hospitals in voivodships, whatever their names, should have a specific shape, should have certain financial resources and be equipped according to standards and requirements, and staff should be in sufficient numbers and adequately remunerated. I want to touch this element, which in its work, decisions and evaluations indicated... If we were to return to the provision of financial resources, I would like to point out that, after all, the discussion started, probably in the previous year, on the revision or updating of rates, the point valuation or the setting of financing conditions. After all, the committee of tariffs and valuations of medical services assessed the financial underestimation of psychiatric services at around 20%. We also need to keep up-to-date analysis - we do not need to, we should - adapt these facilities. My previous speaker talked about the conditions under which such a facility operates in Warsaw. We in the Świętokrzyskie region imposed for 4 years, almost 5 years changed the image of the facility, adjusted it to standards, bought equipment. And what happened? As a result of these actions and adaptation to the requirements in force, the number of beds decreased by almost 30%, which resulted in a reduction in the annual contract with the National Health Fund. And here we must, in my opinion, ensure that, by stimulating, speaking of moving forward, we do not, at the same time, punish those who have taken up these challenges by reducing financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, as in every area, in every area, particularly as delicate as mental health, we should make efforts to contribute, work together, to create - the parallel operation of these institutions opening up and moving to public hospitals, to those created on the basis of social assistance units, but also to ensure the proper functioning of closed medical facilities. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We may have comments and questions about the details in this information, but the club The Polish People's Party will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Margaret Zwierzan, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to information on the implementation of the actions resulting from the 2014 National Mental Health Programme adopted by the Council of Ministers Regulation of 28 December 2010 on the National Mental Health Programme, psychiatric care in Poland is considered as a priority. As you can see from the above data, funding for psychiatric care and drug treatment has increased significantly over the past few years. Undoubtedly, the actions taken under the programme are characterised by comprehensiveness, noticeable and effective cooperation between many institutions and, above all, effective coordination. Despite positive developments in this area, data on real action at local level are raising concern. One of the many examples that point to confirmation of this is that only 5% The municipalities declare the implementation of the programme's tasks. Faced with data showing an increase in the importance of the problem of depression, suicide and other health threats mentally, any data indicating only the declarative implementation of the programme at local level force additional action to encourage the change of attitudes and beliefs of programme developers, especially in smaller communities. We must not allow the substantively prepared programme, which can be an example for other areas of social problems, to be implemented in a non-comprehensive way. There are also particularly negative solutions for drug treatment. As we read in the report, the programmes most rarely implemented by powiats were those that included, among others. addicts. At the level of municipalities, preventive programmes are implemented inefficiently and inefficiently. From the data I collected concerning the use of the impact from the so-called. According to the gminas, prevention is not properly implemented from these measures. The preliminary analysis of these difficulties shows insufficient understanding of the problem risks of social life by those running the lowest levels of the programme. I would like to point out that, in the context of the National Health Programme, preventive measures must be taken both in the field of psychiatric care and treatment of addictions. I fully agree with the information provided on strengthening alcohol policy and its implementation together with the protection of mental health. There is no doubt that 2014 in the implementation of the National Mental Health Programme was another important step in creating and implementing coherent, legitimate measures for citizens' health. I'll take the information. I'll take it. I hope that the Minister, the Ministry of Health, will draw the right conclusions, in fact, already changes, in a good sense, the direction of mental health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u153	Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Please, Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to draw attention to the situation that is currently taking place in psychiatric and general medicine. Well, if a patient in a psychiatric hospital gets a condition other than that resulting from psychiatric treatment, he cannot be admitted to other multi-functional and general facilities. Other hospitals simply refuse to accept a sick person, I stress once again, who is recovering from psychiatric conditions that have other ailments, explaining that they cannot guarantee the safety of other patients. The situation is quite bizarre because doctors at psychiatric hospitals have to discharge these patients to call an ambulance and drive them to a multi-purpose hospital. This situation should change as it violates the constitutional rights of psychiatric patients to equal treatment. This is what I call on the Ministry to take swift and effective action in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u155	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Psychiatric care should be accessible to the public and should not depend on the wealth of the patient's wallet or place of residence. However, small municipalities still cannot match large cities in this area. There are still white spots on the map of fulfilling the need for psychiatric care, e.g. Opolskie and Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodships in 2014 had the lowest number of mental health institutions and the lowest percentage of doctors. Although in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship these data are at an average level, it is still difficult to reach the Mazowieckie voivodship. By comparison, the number of doctors in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship in 2014 was 159 and in Mazowieckie 612. Significant differences can also be observed when looking at the amounts spent on mental health protection in 2014. Divergences range from 0 PLN to more than 10 million PLN per municipality. Minister! I wanted to ask you what you think might result from these extreme discrepancies for 2014. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u157	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three short questions. Please respond in writing. The rapporteur mentioned a growing number of suicide attempts among children and young people. Let me add that these are not only attempts, but also suicides. So here post factum actions are not important, prevention - very. I wanted to ask you about this prevention. These are numbers growing regularly, so there must be conclusions. What conclusions and prevention? The second question concerns addiction. I would also like to ask for a written reply. What kind of action? Are there studies, are there such simulations: spending, number of patients being admitted and effects? Is there such an evaluation planned? The mere fact that he is healing does not mean that there is an effect. It is worth emphasising that in private clinics, in private establishments this effectiveness - that is my knowledge, but I want to confirm it - is 90% higher. It's just that private facilities heal and have an effect. In these countries, treatment with a bad effect is undertaken, of course, not always, but that is why I ask: With what? The last question concerns a serious illness such as depression. The statistics are that more and more people are suffering from this disease, while there is only a small percentage... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll finish the question, Marshal, if you don't mind. Thank you. ... sending or temporarily directing these persons to rule on disability. Thus, these unhealed persons must return to normal life. Very often it ends back to the hospital.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u159	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u160	So I would like to ask you to answer the question about the percentage of disability decisions in relation to the sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u161	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, According to the information provided, a minimum of 50% of all psychiatric disorders are manifested for the first time before the age of 24. The main objective of the programme is to provide health care to people with known mental disorders, practically only if these symptoms occur. In my opinion, it is very important to address the effects of all mental disorders, especially among young people and children. This is because there is a growing tendency to suicide attempts, especially among young people. Minister! Shouldn't professionals be conducting periodic psychiatric examinations among young people and children in order to limit the future adverse effects of all psychiatric disorders to the greatest extent possible? I'd like a written answer to that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u163	There you go, Mrs. Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. [[What about me?]] Sorry, Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u164	Thank you very much. I thought the marshal was trying to get me out of the podium. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We talked a lot about mental health. We all agree that it is, it should be a great priority for all of us. Let me put it this way: as long as both this programme and the previous actions in this area have done a lot of good in terms of treatment, especially for adults, we still have a very big problem in terms of the availability of prevention and therapy measures for children, especially young children. Here's my question. I know that we are following a new evaluation of psychiatric procedures carried out last year by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification. And here's the question: How is this about increasing spending on widely understood therapy for children and young people and prevention? The study is being carried out, Mr President, because the family doctor, the pediatrician, on the balance sheet of a healthy child also evaluates his mental state, and this is why this is being carried out, while access to pre-diagnosis and therapy centres, particularly psychological, but also psychiatric, is a major problem for children and young people. That's why I'm asking. As far as numbers are concerned, please, of course, in writing, because I understand that the Minister does not need to know everything at the moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And briefly, if the marshal would allow it, because it took me two minutes to get started. Based on what was said earlier, hospitalized patients, especially with infectious diseases... Tuberculosis is a great pain, co-existing very often with diseases, alcohol addiction and consequences of mental illness.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u165	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u166	Yeah, I'm almost done. This problem is a big problem. I've been interlocuting in this area, and I haven't gotten an answer. I hope that now the Minister will lean on it and tell me about a comprehensive solution regarding the forced treatment of tuberculosis patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u168	Minister! As we observe reality, we can see that there is an Internet addiction among many young people, children, this generation. Using the Internet is simply a fashion, a way of life, a way of spending time. In the first stage, there are complete omissions concerning school duties and other duties. Then we deal with various symptoms of anxiety, sleepless nights, mental changes, family dramas. It wasn't that long ago that I had the chance to meet a circle of my friends. Doctors say that treatment for Internet addiction is more difficult than drug addiction. Parents are often unconscious or too late to learn and are already powerless. I would therefore like to ask if this problem is recognised by our health care department. What is the scale of this problem? What's the rate of growth? Do we have enough specialists who can be helpful in this calamity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there education programmes and prevention programmes for the treatment of the effects of Internet dependence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u169	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question about the opinion of psychiatrists. There are a lot of people coming to my office who are in some way, in my opinion, especially in the opinion of these people, not quite well treated by the justice system. This appears to be directed, in my opinion, to psychiatric research, and these studies are not fully conducted according to the art that should apply there. The problem is so wide that it concerns experts' opinions. The experts, when giving their opinions to the court, are not professionally responsible for what they are doing for the content of the opinion. This is merely a judicial opinion, but they have no professional responsibility. Is there, therefore, any action, at least in one respect, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To answer the experts, expert psychiatrists who make decisions, also professionally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u171	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Oh, and... [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[But I didn't mention a name.]] [[But you were talking about me.]] [[No, there was no name, Marshal, for sure. I was talking about a few MPs.]] Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Jarosław Pinkas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions. I want to tell you that in two years' time in this Chamber, I hope I will report on the implementation of the National Mental Health Programme, we will be in a completely different reality. There'll be environmental psychiatry in two years, I think, with full access. All world trends will already be implemented in Poland. We will not have a dramaticly complicated situation for patients who are waiting for procedures that are dealt with, which are not coordinated care. It's gonna look completely different. Health resort already in November last year took important steps to create a national mental health program together with the psychiatric community. This was very complicated, because the psychiatry environment is quite heavilytomized, there are many different ideas to solve the situation, but we have managed for two very difficult months and very intensive work to reach an environmental consensus, which is extremely important. We know that the number of people who contest health care workers associated with this important sector will be significantly lower. I am therefore convinced that we will indeed have very important support by implementing environmental psychiatry, but above all, we are committed to supporting our patients. Ladies and gentlemen, important work is underway right now. We've set up a team to pilot environmental psychiatry first. We want this group, very complicated, very poor in profit group not to feel threatened. This reform must be a reform which must be implemented in a very calm manner. The pilot will look so that the centers that are prepared for this, and there will be a lot of them, I think there will probably be about 23 of them, because we are working on this together with the National Health Fund and we know that piloting must be carried out by those who want to, who have something to offer us... It's gonna be a pretty short flight. I think this pilot will last about a year. Meanwhile, we will probably secure funds from the state budget for well-priced, year-round care of a psychiatric patient, well coordinated, with an adequate number of doctors and healthcare professionals, but also those you spoke about, i.e. social workers. It must be an integrated project with other services. In the near future, the College of Health will have a draft amendment to the bill in which the National Mental Health Programme will be concluded, and all those who feel a certain threat that the programme may not be implemented will finally have a hard document on how to get to the model of targeted environmental psychiatry. But, as I said, this subject is extremely complicated and we intend to implement it in an extremely calm manner. I still want to mention why we're talking about 2014. This, of course, is a statutory delegation. We collect all the data and it is not possible for us to present our information immediately from year to year. This is the result of the Mental Health Act, but I think I will keep you updated and you will also observe what is happening during piloting, whether our patients actually have better access, whether they feel safe and whether they really do, because we are too late, I am not hiding, when it comes to implementing environmental psychiatry, this project will bring the expected results. I firmly believe, Marshal, that this project will be an effective project and our patients will be safe. Thank you very much. I will, of course, answer all the questions in writing. There are a lot of them, so look forward to a lot of information for you as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u173	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Hok, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank all Members working in the Health Committee, from all parliamentary clubs, who actually discussed the future of mental health of Poles in a substantive and very responsible way. Today, to be honest, there have been more discussions in the plenary room than sometimes during the proceedings of the Health Committee, but this is also proof that this responsibility for this is very, very important. I am very pleased that the Minister and the High Sejm are speaking positively about a project that was launched in 2011 by previous health ministers. The direction that was chosen was the very right direction. The multi-comprehensiveness, multi-ministeriality of this project must, of course, be carried out, so that I am also pleased with the Minister's announcement that this project and the programme will be extended, also extended to include all the substantive comments that have been made today in this Chamber as well as during the debate in the Health Committee. The National Mental Health Programme was very much needed and has been in operation for 5 years. I have the conviction and impression that it will be implemented for the benefit of patients above all, and unfortunately there are more and more young people in the patient group, whose health and future we all need to take care of. So that I thank you very much on behalf of the Health Committee for accepting this information. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u175	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. The Commission requests the adoption of the information contained in print No 176. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 08 hours 13 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on days off from work and some other laws (print No 435). I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the group of Members representing the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present a draft law amending the law on days off from work and some other laws by introducing a shortened working time of 4 hours on Wielki Friday and Christmas Eve. While many employers meet the needs of workers associated with the celebration of the Great Friday and Christmas Eve and grant dismissals, this is an unwritten rule. In many cases, e.g. in the case of supermarket workers, it is quite the opposite. Christmas and the pre-Christmas period result in turnover, and therefore a way to satisfy this number of customers is sought and at the expense of employees. In our view, in the opinion of the applicants, the task of the State is to harmonise the labour market situation in this area and to uphold the rights of workers to celebrate and prepare for the most important holidays of the year. The proposed regulation responds to precisely those needs of workers, and sets clear rules for employers to follow, and in a global way, without distinguishing between employers who respect certain customs prior to Christmas periods and those who do not respect them, primarily on the basis of their own interests. Christmas Eve is a public holiday in many countries, such as Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia and Hungary. On the other hand, the second day of the Passover Triduum, called the Great Friday, is a public day in the 15 Member States of the European Union, that day does not work: Austrians, British, Bulgarians, Cypriots, Danes, Estonians, Finns, Spanishs, Dutch, Latvians, Maltese, Germans, Portuguese, Slovaks and Swedes. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Speaking of the subject of the project, it is difficult to ignore the fact that about 90% Poles declare Catholic faith. In addition, representatives of other religions in Poland use days that coincide with Catholic holidays to spend time with their family. Friday is the second day of the Passover Triduum, the day of judgment and torment, and the death of Christ. It is the only day of the year when there is no Holy Mass. The Liturgy of the Passion of the Lord is celebrated in churches, and in the streets of many cities the Way of the Cross is made public. Good Friday is one of the most important days of the year for many Christians. Christmas Eve, in turn, is the day before Christmas. The essence of Christmas Eve is the coming into the world of Christ as a man, therefore the family element of these holidays is strongly emphasized. It should be noted that especially with regard to Christmas Eve, some employers are introducing a shorter working day, enabling many people to properly prepare themselves to celebrate these holidays. From the studies that are carried out by various institutes, I will quote the studies carried out by the Work Service. pl, which shows that unfortunately only 24% employees can leave, could recently leave on the day Christmas Eve a little early from work. 11% on the other hand The Poles finish their work one-two hours earlier, and 13% about 3 and 4 hours. From the above data it appears that the vast majority of Polish workers cannot count on early dismissal on Christmas Eve. In addition, it should be noted that according to CBOS studies up to 56% Poles participate in the big Friday liturgy. The current law on days off from work states that the days off from work are: 1 January - popularly called the New Year, the Feast of the Three Kings - 6 January, the first day of the Holy Night, the second day of the Holy Night, 1 May, 3 May, the first day of Pentecost, God's Body, 15 August - a feast known as the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, 1 November, or All Saints, 11 November - the National Independence Day, 25 December - the first day of Christmas, 26 December - the second day of Christmas and Sundays. The solution proposed in this project does not introduce new days off from work, only reduces working time on Good Friday and Christmas Eve. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment introducing a reduced working time of 4 hours on Good Friday and Christmas Eve is a de facto sanction of what already works in many places, in those places where the employee can talk to the employer as equal with the equal. We would like to extend this project to those workers who cannot count on such a partnership with their employer, precisely this principle of early termination. We are coming out here, in the Seym, this project in response to the expectations of many Poles, who follow Europeans, some of their religious motives, others, non-believers, family and others, want to be able to spend more time on these special holiday days not only at work but outside the workplace - with their loved ones. Hence we submit this project, hoping for a friendly look at the problem that is reported by many employees, I think, not only Members of the Polish People's Party, but also Members representing other environments here in the Seym. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u177	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the law on days off from work and certain other laws. This proposal proposes the amendment of the Law of 18 January 1951 on work-free days and the Law of 26 June 1974. The projecters intend to introduce a reduced working time of 4 hours on Good Friday and Christmas Eve, so their intention is to reduce working time rather than introduce new holidays. The draft law meets the expectations of employees, although it should be noted that many employers are currently in the framework of the so-called. good practice reduces working time for its employees on that day. Being in opposition clearly serves the Polish People's Party. When you no longer rule, you see social expectations and needs. You want to cut back on working time, you have new ideas. It is a pity that you did not show such empathy when you co-organized, I will remind you, for 8 years, earlier with the SLD, extending your working time - especially for women - until 67 years of age, when you ruled - to remember the multi-thousand social protests, many times greater than those present, the exit of social partners from the social dialogue committee - and accepting many other wrong solutions. The conclusion is one - Polish People's Party should always be in opposition, because then it is much more sensitive to social needs. Law and Justice regardless of whether it is in opposition or ruling, always stands guard of good social solutions and such good solutions for Poles prepares. The Law and Justice therefore consider that the proposed amendments should be subject to further examination in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u179	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft amendments to the Law on Free Days and some other laws described in print No 435. Reading the project prepared by the Polish People's Party and the justification for the limitation of working time up to 4 hours on Christmas Eve and on Good Friday, it is difficult to resist the impression that the whole document was prepared in a hurry and without further analysis. Neither political nor worldview issues should cover the fundamental problems that would result from the implementation of these solutions. I'm just gonna pay attention to a few of them. The projector has in no way analysed how the reduction in working time will affect sectors which, due to their specific characteristics, must employ workers 24 hours a day. This isn't about gas stations or even the fire department or the police. Consider caring and healing facilities, which today, in many cases, work on the brink of cost-effectiveness. How does PSL intend to explain to hospital directors that they will have to pay more for 4 hours on Christmas Eve than before or give the employee a day off on another day, which also results in greater expenditure from the payroll fund? Another example is media providers who are forced to continuously monitor their networks in the event of an accident. Here, too, we will have to add to the payroll fund, for which we will all pay in water, electricity and gas bills. What about tourism companies? Thousands of hotels and guesthouses will have increased operating costs. The explanatory memorandum states that the introduction of a law can bring lower VAT revenues, because people will work less. However, companies and institutions that require continuous work have not been taken into account at all. That is why we should not discuss how Catholic we are today, but simply say to ourselves that this project is poorly prepared, that the effects of its adoption have not actually been assessed. I would like to stress that the examples cited here are only part of the problems that could arise if this project were adopted. The next days are as a result a restriction on freedom of business, in addition only in the case of companies employing employees, because the self-employed can work even on holidays. It is not entirely clear whether reducing working time to 4 hours means that the employer will still have to pay a full day's pay, or whether you will have to work these hours on another day. And finally, you don't know what four hours it's about, because on these days some work starts in the afternoon. In summary, as even trade union representatives say, these matters, i.e. working time on Christmas Eve and Great Friday, should be discussed on the road by the employer - employees, not by law. As life shows, this is what happens, and these days usually work less. Given all the problems and ambiguities I have identified, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club recommends rejecting the project described in Seym printing No 435. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u181	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the law amending the law on days off from work and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, we considered this law as a multi-track club, trying to take into account both the interests of workers and employers, but also taking into account possible budgetary implications. We also note, Mr reporter, that the project unfortunately demonstrates very populist features. This is populism in its purest form. If this law were to be proceded two months before the election, it would normally be called a sauerkraut. In addition, this project is a project that escalates the division between bad employers and oppressed workers. I'd suggest you leave such rhetoric that there's someone in this country against someone. Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at statistics, they show, in short, that on the one hand we are a country that has one of the largest numbers of days away from work in the year, and on the other hand that we are in the forefront of European countries in terms of working time during the year. In Poland, the worker spends an average of 1918 hours at work, and for comparison in Germany - 1388, while the French work 1489 hours. So this short statistical test shows that we are one of the most working nations in Europe, which unfortunately does not translate into the income of our citizens. So what is the situation of the worker in Poland? He works a lot more than Western workers, earns less, has more days off work. Will this amendment make any difference in his case? I dare say not. It will not introduce additional days off work, which can be spent on rest, it will only reduce working time during these 2 days by 4 hours. Moreover, it is not defined which 4 hours is involved, so we are afraid that it will be used, e.g. In such a way that the employer, even if acting in the form of a hypermarket - as you mentioned - will bring the entire crew in four hours, because he will be able to do so, and the entire crew will be used. It's not going to be what you're talking about, spending that time with your family. Many employers - you have also noticed - solve it in such a way that they give their employees a day off or reduce their working time on that day, but given the nature of their activities. The imposition from the top that an employee can work - as you mentioned here - for four hours in the case of companies that have 24 hours of working time will be problematic. From an employer's point of view, how can we read, for example, in opinions that have entered the Sejm's Registry, this will result not only in financial losses but, above all, in organisational problems concerning the organisation of working time, the collection of more workers for shorter periods. It is also difficult to determine the decline in revenue to the budget. As a Kukiz club15, we would be inclined to see a possible - I would point out - a possible - discussion about the introduction of one day or two days, it is difficult to determine, but completely free of work. A much better solution is the introduction of e.g. one day off from work on Good Friday than two days during which employees would still have to get to work. For them it will not be a day off from work, for them it will only be a shorter day's work. The solutions proposed in this project are considered ineffective as well as not entirely in line with the Law on Working Days, because they do not in fact introduce such days. This is a shorter working day, not a day off from work. In view of the above, as a Kukiz club15, we will vote in favour of directing the project to further work in the committee, primarily in order to analyse the relevance of the proposed solutions. Perhaps we should move towards a full day off from work, but after careful analysis of what the profit and loss balance will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u183	Thank you. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on days off from work and some other laws is only suitable for rejection at first reading. This is a typical example of failed legislation. The proposed changes do not introduce holidays, but only reduce working time on selected holiday days. By creating an artificial structure, rules are created that are separate from reality. Have applicants considered the consequences of both employers and employees? According to the justification of the loss for the budget, the VAT will amount to PLN 300 million. For this we could build 200 kindergartens, and in return we get the need to change the system of calculating working time and reduce the flexibility of employee agreements with employers. We create organizational problems for employers who provide services that constantly meet the needs of the population and require working in the movement. We provide commuters with a wasted half day, in which a comparable amount of time will be spent on work and commuting. But that's not all. In the explanatory memorandum, you refer to examples from other countries of the European Union. However, it is a pity that you did not take into account the comparison of the state of the economy of these countries. Poland cannot afford to reduce the sources of revenue to the state budget, especially with the current government of PiS, which freely distributes benefits under the 500+ programme. Moreover, from the comparisons in the explanatory memorandum, we are in the middle. In England and Germany they work a few days less, and Belgians work 11 days longer, depending on the state of the economy. So we seem to be maintaining healthy proportions. So, why would you think of adopting a law in this regard, since in the applicant's explanatory statement, 56% people participate in the big Friday liturgy? There is therefore no significant problem that the person who wants to combine work with religious celebrations on that day simply does so. However, the employer has problems. Reducing working time will bring real losses, which will result in less revenue to the budget and will reduce wage growth. However, workers to whom we add their free time are very often in practice not even using all their vacation leave under the Labour Code. As a result, the employer will have to pay even more holiday equivalents. Another problem, however, which is not in the context of today's discussion, is the cause of this situation. These are cultural conditions and the result of a lack of partnership between employers and employees, particularly in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. It is difficult for dialogue if the will of the parties is bound by increasingly restrictive rules. I was looking for arguments for which the proposal to amend the law could be considered legitimate, but it was very difficult. State holidays alone are almost 3 weeks off, an additional 26 days leave is granted to the person on the board. We don't work for eight weeks at least 52 weeks a year. We should therefore fight for higher wages for workers, for lower burdens on social insurance and taxes, for technological progress. Labour productivity is also a key issue. If we improve it, we can possibly afford more time off in the future. For now, in this quality economy category we are at the gray end of the European Union, and the growth recorded in the last decade is perhaps and statistically significant, but it comes primarily from the very low level from which we started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u185	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, proposing this project, came from the assumption of the current state in the labour market, in terms of these two special days for Poles before very important holidays for many Poles. By admitting this at the very beginning, trying to find a good solution, meeting the report, as I have put it - I think that not only us - by employees problems... It's a little bit like that -- a little digression -- as it used to be used to looking for good solutions when it comes to sidewalks on the lawn. There are those who say you just have to wait where the paths will be trampled to find a good solution. Similarly, we are trying to do this project here. Mr Wojciech Bakun said that this is a populist project. This is not a populist project, because can populism be called leaning over the situation of workers? That's not entirely true. There were also voices that even trade unions see various shortcomings in this solution, big costs. On the other hand, I would also like to quote the argument that Leviathan had also submitted to this project, but by pointing out a number of examples of such organisation of a working day by employers, in which this is possible. So these costs are not insurmountable on the part of employers - just organizing these days as full-time, but at the same time half-day. So it's possible. Ms Urszula Rusecka, representing the Law and Justice Club, said that being in opposition serves PSL. [[Voice from the room: everyone.]] I think that this is a little bit - here the Member tells me - but not quite, because we will agree that good solutions, when it comes to the labour market, are always worth looking for, regardless of the place it deals with from a political perspective. I admit, in connection with all the skeptical voices that fell in club positions, that this is a solution that needs to be refined, it is not perfect, because it is difficult to find a perfect solution here. We must weigh between the interests of employers and workers. That is why I answer to those of you who have said that this must be done. either, or. This concept of just half a day's work, first of all, responds to a practice that already works in many places, and secondly, is a kind of compromise between the employer's economic situation and the employee. I would like to end by thanking you very warmly for this discussion, both for the good sides of this project and for the very critical voices. We hope that the High Chamber will give us a chance to lean on this project in substance in the Parliamentary Committee and try to find the best solution just in the interest of Polish workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u187	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please, I will close the list after the first question. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please explain whether the costs of these additional hours off work before the holidays will not result in a reduction in the remuneration of employees. Incidentally, I would like to add that if the representatives of the Platform, the groups of the most hostile union organizations, refer to their position, perhaps they better consider what they are doing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u189	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the rapporteur, I have basically three or four questions. Are you considering a discussion, as I said in my statement, regarding the introduction of only one day off from work in exchange for two four hours? This raises the second question: Was this perhaps your goal? Or was this law supposed to offer something not entirely realistic to implement, because it is incompatible with the law on days off from work, and the real purpose is, you can say, to enforce another day off for employees, because perhaps that is the hidden purpose? What solutions do you anticipate in the situation that I also mentioned in my speech if the employer simply downloads twice as many people from the crew to cover these hours? The store will continue in the same hours open, but twice as many people will have to come to work that day, which will actually cause much greater chaos, much more problems than at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u191	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the official position of the government vis-à-vis the parliamentary bill amending the law on days off from work and some other laws, contained in print No 435, there is no, but we have already prepared the position of our Ministry, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which will be recommended to the Council of Ministers. I think it is worth referring to this project today, because it is an important project. These issues concerning holidays or reduced working time have been discussed several times. It would be easier for us to talk, for example. on the issue of the day off work on Good Friday, because there were already such projects when we dealt with issues related to holidays, 12 Christmas days, later on the feast of the Three Kings, but we also know that every year union organizations call on employers to reduce working time, whether on the Great Friday or on Christmas Eve. Therefore, I would like to point out more substantively that we have a picture of the problems we face in the possible adoption of these solutions which are proposed in the parliamentary project. As the projectors point out in the explanatory memorandum, the introduction of a shortened working time of 4 hours on Good Friday and Christmas Eve are not aimed at introducing new days off work. At the same time, the project promoters propose amendments to the Act of 18 January 1951 on working days, which include the addition of the current catalogue of working days on Good Friday and Christmas Eve, provided that the working time on these days cannot exceed 4 hours a day. The proposed amendments to this Act are to be accompanied by amendments to the Labour Code, which do not apply to the abovementioned two holidays the principle of reducing working time by 8 hours for each of them when calculating the working time of the worker for a given working time period, excluding the abovementioned two holidays from the definition of working days, granting the worker the right to pay for the work performed for the aforementioned holidays for the time not worked due to the reduction of working time. Four more points. In the fourth point, the above-mentioned two holidays are excluded from the catalogue of holidays where work in commercial establishments is not allowed. This amendment, of course, concerns Article. 151 of the Labour Code. Projectors propose that these changes should enter into force on 1 January 2017. It should therefore be noted that the Law of 18 January 1951 on working days in accordance with its title establishes working days, which in the current legal state are all Sundays and 13 public and religious holidays. However, it is not the purpose of this law to shorten working time, including reducing the daily working time of employees on selected days. Issues relating to the determination of working time, understood as the required number of hours to be worked during the assumed working time settlement period, are governed by the provisions of the Labour Code, and in the case of certain groups of workers may also be governed by the provisions of special laws, so-called. employee pragmatism. Therefore, in order to modify the working time limit, including reducing the daily working time, any changes should not be made to the Working Days Act, although the establishment of a new holiday on a working day results in an automatic reduction of working time during the assumed working time settlement period if the holiday falls on a day other than Sunday. In addition, it must be stated that, in the current legal state, the establishment of a holiday on a working day results in the fact that, in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code, the working time of the worker is reduced by 8 hours for the agreed settlement period if it falls on a day other than Sunday. Working on such a day shall be permitted only in the cases referred to in Article. 151 of the Labour Code. It's not allowed to work on a business day like this. Another: if the worker does his job on such a day, the employer is obliged to give him another day off from work in return until the end of the working time period. Otherwise, the staff member shall be entitled to an allowance of 100% of the salary. remuneration for each hour of work on the holiday. However, as already stated, the proposal excludes the application of the provisions referred to in points 1 and 3 with regard to the Feast of Friday and Christmas Eve. It is not clear, however, whether the provisions of the Article apply to work on Good Friday and Christmas Eve. 151 of the Labour Code, whether working on these days for 4 hours will be permitted in any case or only in the cases referred to in that provision. In addition, according to the draft, these holidays will not be covered by the definition of working days referred to in Article. 150 Labour Code, which is contrary to the proposals for amendments to the law on days off from work. These exemptions argue that, in fact, it is not the intention of the projectors to set up these two holidays on days off from work, but only to reduce working time on those days to 4 hours a day. The fact that the proposed legislation pursues the aim of designers raises serious doubts. This objective could rather be achieved by changes in determining the working time of workers during the assumed working time period. However, the concept of introducing shorter working time on these 2 Christmas days is also of considerable doubt. restrictions up to 4 hours a day working on these days. First of all, it should be noted that the mere reduction of working time on those days does not yet provide workers with the possibility to achieve the objectives for which the working time is to be reduced - because, according to the justification for the project, it is intended to enable employees to participate in religious and family celebrations related to them - because the determination of a specific schedule of working time of the worker, i.e. determining the duration of work, will continue to be the responsibility of the employer. Another point is that the reduction of working time in those days up to 4 hours in the way proposed in the project in practice can be limited only to full-time and basic working hours, i.e. 8 hours a day and an average of 5 days a week, while for part-time workers these benefits may be much less or no less, as normal working time on each working day may vary, for example. 4 hours a day or even less. This may also apply to employees working in a sustainable working time system, i.e. in a system where the employer can increase the daily working time to 12 hours, and in certain cases up to 16 or 24 hours at the cost of reducing the daily working time less than 8 hours in other days or guaranteeing the worker more days off work. The latter two categories of workers may therefore in practice not benefit from the proposed reduction in working time. Such a design of the rules seems to result in unequal treatment of workers in terms of working time and thus pay for work, since the proposed rules provide for the worker to retain the right to pay for time not worked due to reduced working time. The project also contains other numerous legislative shortcomings. In view of the above, it must be concluded that the draft law amending the law on days off from work and certain other laws contained in Seym printing No 435 raises serious and numerous doubts about both the objective itself and the ability to achieve the objective pursued by the designers and the methods proposed in the project. A good place to discuss changes in this area is the Social Dialogue Council, in which this proposal should be presented and there should be a compromise. In the case of the High House's decision to refer the project to further work in the Sejm, the Government Party declares its substantive support, both in terms of proposals for change and in the preparation of other solutions. In the manner in which it is submitted today, this project cannot be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u193	Thank you very much, Minister, Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk's applicants. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u194	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I will answer the questions and speeches presented by the Minister. First of all, I answer to Mrs Tomaszewska. I will not give the amount, but for one time I will appeal to many years of practice in many places of work, the practice that works is continued, both satisfied with it and does not cause such losses and costs on the employer's side, so it is probably just possible. Practice as if justifies the whole solution in contrast to that, if we offered all day off or 2 days off, because then there would be many critical arguments, mainly from organisations representing employers, precisely because of the costs. This is -- I'm going to use this phrase for the second time, perhaps -- a compromise around which it's worth looking for the right solutions. In answer to Mr Bakun's question, whether there is a strategy behind this project, whether we have any evil intentions, that it is such a smokescreen, while the real purpose is to introduce days off, I will say, Mr President, that no, there were no hidden, disguised intentions that we tried to hide. Probably with a few flaws in this project that you've presented here, there's no other bottom here. We are not talking about new days off from work, we are talking about solutions that have worked out in practice, and we are just saying that there should not be two categories or two types of workers in this regard, because it is now more popular, i.e. those who have an employer looking kindly at this solution often for several years now, because I have an example of an entrepreneur who several years ago exactly, regardless of whether they are women or gentlemen, employees or employees, simply introduced this kind of principle, and those who are employees of the second sort, the second category who unfortunately cannot count on the kindness of the employer, because he may be in the second hemisphere, because he may have a completely different view of the world. The point is to standardize a rule without a second bottom. Minister, thank you very much for the declaration of support from the Ministry for further work on this project. I'm not hiding that we're hoping for one. We admit that there are some difficult issues that will undoubtedly require such support. There's a problem with a proper location. Legally, it's a solution, I admit. Therefore, we do not close ourselves here as designers for discussion, for suggestions, for observations from others. The aim is to reach a compromise in the final part of this legislative process, which I believe will continue and perhaps bring us closer to a solution which will show, however, that it is possible to work together to achieve a good solution primarily in the interests of the workers, but at the same time without compromising the interests of employers. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u195	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without a doubt, this initiative is in line with the expectations of the workers. It is not necessary to rely on detailed statistics to conclude that, on the days indicated in this proposal, the employer, or at least a significant part of them, reduces the working time voluntarily. However, this decision involves certain costs. Therefore, the question arises for applicants: How much will it cost to limit to 4 hours of work on Good Friday and Christmas Eve? I also call on us to try to reach a compromise that is acceptable to both sides, both for workers and for employers, by continuing to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u197	A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal at the next session of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order (print No 449). I ask Mr Jakub Kulesza to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Emperor Tiberius used to say: "Tax sheep must be cut, not slaughtered. Our tax system contradicts this principle. Public Danins are high, expensive in service, inefficient, unfair and incomprehensible not only to taxpayers but also to tax authorities. Only in 2012 the regional administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court repealed more than 2 000. tax decisions. The resulting amounts are over PLN 850 million. The proposed amendment of the Tax Order is a minor, albeit very important step towards simplifying tax law in Poland. The notified draft repeals Article. 70 § 8 A tax order stating that there is no statute of limitations on the tax liability secured by a mortgage or a tax pledge. The situation in which the state is prosecuting citizens, taxpayers for the rest of their lives, although other obligations are statute-barred, is grossly unfair. This is also contrary to our constitution, as stated by the Constitutional Tribunal. By judgment of 2013, he ruled that a similar provision was unconstitutional on the basis of the old legal situation which had subsequently been transferred in a similar form to the present article of the Tax Order. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the judgment, the provision of the article. 70 § 8 Although the tax administration was not formally the subject of judgment (as it was not the basis for the final decision in the applicant's case), it is evident that the same constitutional objections raised in this judgment apply to it. The position put forward by the Constitutional Tribunal was broadly supported by the case law of the administrative courts. The Supreme Court also accepted such a position in its recent judgment of 17 March 2016 without applying Article. 70 § 8 Tax Order as non-constitutional. This is not about whether you agree with this judgment or not. However, you must be aware that this provision introduces a huge mess in the tax system in Poland. It is not and will not be used by Polish courts, but is used by tax offices. What's the effect? Fiscal decisions shall be repealed, contested by the courts, which shall in addition administer compensation for taxable persons for the unlawful operation of the tax authorities. The work of the fiscal is unproductive, and it is paid for by all citizens. It should be noted that the existing provision also has other consequences. Many officials, although of course not all of them, out of laziness, instead of really enforcing tax obligations, are only referring to the establishment of mortgages and tax pledges which, under this provision, do not expire. Therefore, repeal of the Article. 70 § 8 The tax administration will allow tax authorities to deal with matters really important in terms of the discipline of public finances, such as the pursuit of VAT carousels, while taxpayers will avoid running in courts in search of justice. The adoption of the proposed amendment is nothing more than making our tax system more coherent, fairer and simpler in application. It is also the execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. I appeal here, in particular, to Members of the Law and Justice, that after 8 years of government, the Civic Platform should restore at least a bit of normality to the Polish taxpayer. On the other hand, Members of the Civic, Modern and Polish People's Party Platform are asked to vote in favour of the law which implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition, income tax must be abolished. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u199	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most persistent of the tenants left in this room! I wanted to say that it seems to me that we are trying to get something out of this normality back, as much as possible, out of this normality, and proof of that is that I even asked a Member, from a normal opposition, not a total opposition, for an opinion - before we met, we wondered about this solution, about the need for this amendment. It seems that this proposal is well founded. Of course, it is not only the question of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but also the indication of the Supreme Court, the caselaw of the administrative courts in this matter, and the fact that a certain legal entity is simply not applied in practice or, as you rightly state in the explanatory memorandum, it is pointless simply to do so. But it's giving birth... it's such a tiny pebble, 'cause it's like we have huge doubts about what's going on in the field of the application of these non-constitutional rules often. As far as judicial practice is concerned, it is a much broader problem. The question at all is whether the non-constitutional law should be applied. Such a fundamental question arises as to whether these non-constitutional rules, e.g. they should continue to apply before the date of their loss of legal force. After all, unfortunately, we have in the actions of the Constitutional Tribunal such a delay, a delay in the legal force of the existing rules, and, on the other hand, these non-constitutional rules are often binding on administrative courts. This is a huge problem. We do indeed have judgments of the Supreme Court, from not so old time, probably from 2014, in which it is concluded that the provision recognised by the Constitutional Tribunal as not in conformity with the Constitution, which is no longer in force in the deferred period, applies to claims made until its validity has expired. This is the resolution of three Supreme Court judges. The problem is that it often happens that the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland, which in my opinion is starting to move more in the political sphere today than in this stricte Legally, this Constitutional Tribunal in Poland repeals the provisions adopted by the Sejm, by the legislator, indicating the deferred deadline for the loss of force in force. As a general rule, the provision in question ceases to apply when the judgment is published in the Official Journal - art. 190, which we have been hearing a lot about lately - but the Constitutional Tribunal may set a time limit for losing effect of the existing act otherwise and may extend these periods. As far as the bill is concerned, that deadline may not exceed 18 months. Thus, we have such judgments as in the bank's enforcement order - the duration of this provision has been extended. So there are a number of very important questions about how these courts are to proceed, deciding cases where it is known that the force of this normative act is simply extended, as these courts are supposed to decide, when it is known that the rule is unconstitutional and yet still exists. After all, it binds the courts and creates very important problems, not only regarding understanding the idea of justice, the idea of the rule of law in the country. So that, in my view, it is probably worth considering this issue and perhaps we should refer this proposal to the finance committee together, because this is one of the elements of a very important legal act, which is the Tax Order. But no doubt such a thing as to say, the laws should, however, be removed, purify such important acts, which are important for [[♪ The bell ♪]] tax system seals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u201	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I think it is worth paying attention to the negative effects not only of the budget, but also of the social introduction of this provision in this form or the resolution of the limitation problem as such, and that it requires a solution, which I think no one in this Chamber has any doubts about. But it is worth noting that in terms of tax and customs arrears, it is today over 107 thousand. Forced mortgages, the amount secured is over 6 billion, as if to include interest, that is 12.5 billion for sure. And this is, on the one hand, kind of a loss of income, but on the other hand, if we would like to introduce this solution in such an extraordinarily manner, then we are at risk of forcing immediate enforcement of mortgage-backed claims, and most of these forced mortgages are residential mortgages. It is also worth noting that the aim of this provision is in fact not only to safeguard the fiscal interest and not only the immediate forced enforcement of debts, because this solution which is in force today gives the taxpayer the opportunity to pay tax arrears from other means without the risk of being deprived of its assets, little of that, in my experience, is that tax authorities do not initiate these enforcement proceedings precisely because of these social issues. It is also worth noting that the adoption of this solution will result in a civil creditor in a privileged position vis-à-vis a public creditor. There are a number of doubts, even as far as the Constitutional Court itself is concerned, which we are referring to here. It is worth noting that, if you look at this judgment, the tribunal assessed the establishment of a compulsory mortgage only from the perspective of the controlled entity - this was a single case on the basis of which the judgment appeared - not taking full account of the effects of the mortgage in the recovery aspect, and here 97% mortgages are mortgages for a dimensional decision or an implementing title. These doubts were shared by the Marshal of the Sejm. We, may I say, in the Ministry of Finance in the previous government, were looking for another solution. The Committee on the Codification of General Tax Law addressed the issue of limitation. In my opinion, the idea was adopted by the previous government, which was very interesting and accepted, by the way, to separate the tax limitation and the collection of taxes. In the first case, the tax authority would have the time prescribed by law to carry out the assessment of the tax. This would be the period for questioning the correctness of the tax settlement by the taxpayer, i.e. the complex tax return, or for the decision to be taken in the absence of such a declaration. The time limit for this limitation could vary, e.g. for individuals it is 3 years - this is the proposal made by the codification committee - and for other taxpayers it is 5 years. The second type of limitation would concern the right of collection and would be linked to the situation in which the obligation is, exists, is fixed, its amount is known. The start of the run would, as a general rule, be after the expiry of the limitation period. Of course, it would have to be encapsulated by limiting the possibility of interrupting this race, because it is a nightmare. also this system and today's model in terms of the functioning of the institutions of limitation. It requires a systematic approach. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We, taking into account the fact that this is very important, also believe that we should proceed on this, but I hope, by the way, that the Ministry of Finance will speed up work on the concept created by the codification committee and that we will actually be able to solve this problem in the course of the work in the finance committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u203	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Mr Jack Wilk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a bit sad, but also very interesting, that, with such an important topic for our entrepreneurs, for taxpayers, it raises so little interest for ladies and gentlemen of Members, but on the other hand it may raise the level of discussion, less politics, more rhetoric. High Izbo! The power of taxation is the power of destruction. You can see that very clearly in Polka. Unfortunately, sometimes it feels like in a building on the street. The same philosophy, which was still in the 1980s, is still in force, where it was mostly about chasing and destroying private people, not developing the economy. Our tax system has already achieved all the Himalayas of absurdity. This is the kind of law in which, for example. State law, the relic of state law, is maintained all the time. According to completely different principles, the condition of the clergy is taxed, according to completely different principles - the state of the peasant, and according to completely different principles - the rest. Taxes have reached such a state of complexity, complexity, that even the most outstanding tax-law specialists are not able to grasp it in its entirety, only they specialize not even in individual taxes, but in individual parts of taxes, such as. in VAT charged or in tax due. The number of amendments, the number of amendments already goes into thousands. More than 120 thousand have already been spent on the VAT Act itself. interpretation. Under these conditions the Polish economy and Polish entrepreneurs are developing not thanks, but despite the tax system. In fact, this tax system is only suitable for throwing it in the trash and replacing it with a completely new system. [[Applause]] In many cases, taxes are inefficient and senseless enough to perform not so much fiscal function as simply police function, because everyone just needs to do enough in-depth control, analysis and always catch someone on taxes. Your Honor, it reminds me of a case a few years ago when she was famous... [[Seym, but okay.]] Excuse me? [[The High Sejm.]] Sorry, counseling habits. High Seym, of course. A few years ago we had a famous case in the Seym called. cottages, i.e. overlayers, to whom it suddenly, were changed from day to day interpretations in respect of this special kind of main tax, such as contributions to the Social Insurance Fund and the National Health Fund. This is a very special tax, a major tax, which pays self-employed and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs whether they earn any income or not. In that case it was interesting to say that from day to day ZUS changed the interpretation and concluded that it must be the stakes not only in full, but also paid for a few years back. This ended with the fact that such entities were charged several tens of thousands of arrears from day to day. Why am I talking about this, High Sejm? I am talking about all this because, under such conditions and under such circumstances, a particular institution of limitation of tax obligations is often becoming, what is much to say here, the last line of defence and the last hope of the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is not really sure what rules really apply to him, or how they will be interpreted, or how long they will last, can sometimes just and only wait a few years for them to become obsolete. Because this is very often the case, except for this variation of the law, except for its uncertainty that another interpretation is given by the tax office, another is issued by the tax office, another is issued by the Ministry of Finance, another is considered by the provincial administrative court, and another is considered by the Supreme Administrative Court; sometimes the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Tribunal also occupy their position. In such a condition, in such a way, I apologize very much for the word, the mess of the tax system, once again I stress, often a clear definition of the limitation of tax obligations, i.e. giving the taxpayer any certainty as to how he is taxed or how he is not taxed, is in practice his last hope, his last resort. For this reason, the High Sejm, as a Kukiz club15, a free club, a club that clearly favours economic freedom, clear, simple taxation, to remove the grey zone, to simplify and disseminate taxes, and thus increase the revenue of the state budget by this method, not by complicate and increase rates, of course we support this law and we will ask for it to continue to proceed. Finally, I will repeat once again, ladies and gentlemen, that the power of taxation is the power of destruction. Let us not use taxes to destroy Polish entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized ones, which are the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u205	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform the High House - this is the information I received from Mr Lech Kołakowski - that today we are hearing a large group of police officers from Łomża. [[Applause]] We cordially greet your officers. Of course, we also warmly greet Mr Kołakowski. [[Voice from the room: He, he, he.]] Please speak on behalf of Mr Mirosław Pampuch's Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u206	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the modern club, I will present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order Act. My predecessor began philosophical reflections on the tax system at all. Maybe I'll focus on the merits of this statutory change. This amendment concerns one provision, the deletion of one provision, Article. 70 § 8th Tax Order. I share the view that this is a very important provision for taxpayers, but also a very important provision that protects the possibility of tax collection in general throughout the tax system. It is also clear that this provision was recognised by the Constitutional Court - although not directly, because its current wording was not the subject of the judgment of the Constitutional Court - as, in principle, violating the constitutional provisions concerning inter alia. the principles of equality vis-à-vis the law and property rights set out in Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I share the view that all these shortcomings in the tax bill, including the Tax Order, need to be corrected. On the other hand, I also believe that this should be done in a broader scope of comprehensive analysis of all the provisions of the Tax Order, because then we will have a full overview of all aspects of both the statute of limitations and the statute of limitations on the collection of these obligations. It's a very interesting solution. It is indeed, it was proposed during the committee's work, which is working on the reform of the Tax Ordination in the area of the separation of tax rules and the timing of their collection. This may be a golden measure that will solve the problem. Is this amendment very urgent? I don't think it's that urgent, because the applicants themselves grant it in the explanatory memorandum, that the administrative courts and courts generally no longer apply these rules. But I share the view that there is a great deal of harm in leaving this provision, because tax authorities are obliged to apply it until its unconstitutionality is recognised and, unfortunately, there is a great burden for entrepreneurs. Hence the Poselski Club Modern recommends that the bill be passed to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u207	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska made her speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party in writing. The question is whether the Undersecretary of State Marian Banas will speak at this point. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u208	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Parliamentary draft law amending the Tax Order, print No 449, provides for the repeal of the provision providing for the non-existing tax liabilities secured by mortgages or tax pledges. The statement of reasons for the project refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 8 October 2013, e.g. Act SK 40/12 concerning an analogue but no longer applicable provision. The draft intends to repeal the Article. 70 § 8 Tax Order. The project does not contain any transitional arrangements. This will mean that the compulsory mortgage and the tax pledge will no longer protect the public debt against the statute of limitations on the date of entry into force of the law. The amendment proposed in the proposal should be assessed negatively from a systemic point of view. The project will result in a civil creditor in a better position than a public creditor. In civil law, the limitation of claims secured by mortgages or pledges shall be without prejudice to the right of the mortgage creditor or pledge to satisfy the burdened property or property. The position of a public creditor may not be worse than that of a civil creditor when using the same forms of collateral. The second reason for the Ministry of Finance's critical assessment of the project is the omission of serious negative budgetary effects. As at 31 December 2015, the amount of arrears remaining under the jurisdiction of the tax authorities secured by mortgages and tax pledges amounts to more than PLN 6 billion and concerns about PLN 50,000. taxpayers. This amount should be increased by interest on late payment secured with principal. Assuming that interest on late payment amounts to only half of the principal, the total amount of claims payable by tax offices secured by compulsory mortgage and tax pledges on goods amounts to more than PLN 9 billion. This amount does not cover the arrears in excise duty, customs duty and local government units. In addition, the financial consequences also include other public tributes for which the mortgage or tax pledge is secured on the basis of the Tax Order. The proposed amendment will threaten to expire as a result of the limitation of the estimated amount of tax arrears, representing revenue of the state budget of about PLN 1.8 billion. The risk of limitation of a tax obligation would result in the immediate initiation of executions from real estate even in cases where it is the residence of the taxpayer and his family. This would undoubtedly result in a negative social perception. After the entry into force of this project, a mortgage to a public creditor will no longer be a real security, which will force the swift execution of the property. The designer is very simplistic, stating in his statement that the project will have a positive social impact. It is a fact that the Constitutional Tribunal has stated that a provision similar to the one currently in force is incompatible with the Constitution. This sentence is the foundation of the Parliamentary project submitted. In the context referred to in the statement of reasons for the draft judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court of First Instance referred to in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Act SK 40/12, however, it should be noted that on 1 October 2015 the Marshal of the Sejm sent a request to the Constitutional Court to clarify doubts as to the content of that judgment. It is not clear whether the effect of this judgment concerns only mortgages established at the pre-dimensional security stage, e.g. in the course of a tax check, whether or not the effect of that judgment concerns all mortgages and thus those established either on the basis of a final dimensional decision or on the basis of an implementing title based on a tax return submitted by the taxpayer. It is essential to resolve this issue as regards the direction and scope of legislative work. The resolution of this dilemma will have financial implications for the budget in billions. It should also be borne in mind that the provision repealed by the proposed law will still be examined by the Constitutional Tribunal as to its compatibility with the Constitution in connection with the Ombudsman's request, sygn. Act K 10/16, and a legal question to the Poznań-New City and Wild District Court, sygn. Act P 6/16. It must be agreed that legislative intervention will be necessary in this regard. However, only the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in these cases, including the expected interpretation of the previous judgment, will determine the right direction for legislative changes. Thus, in presenting the above, I ask, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, to refer the project to the committee, but also to suspend the work on the project until such time as the said proceedings are completed before the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u209	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the applicant wish to speak? No. Well, thank you, then. The discussion is closed. [[Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party]] [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the PSL Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act Tax Order according to print No. 449.]] [[The aim of the project is to amend the Act of 29 August 1997. Tax Order resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 8 October 2013, sygn. Act SK 40/12. The Constitutional Tribunal recognised the Article in force in 1998 and 2002. 70 § 6 Tax Order for non-compliance with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland.]] [[Article 4 is replaced by the following: 70 § 6 provides that a mortgage-backed tax obligation shall not be imposed until the limitation period has expired, however, tax arrears may be enforced only on the subject of the mortgage.]] [[Non-compliance with the constitution of this provision is due to a breach of the principle of equality vis-à-vis the law and property rights set out in Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. From this point of view, it is not allowed to make the limitation period of tax obligations conditional on how they have been secured or to allow obligations of a separate category of taxable persons to be made obsolete. The same constitutional reservations, by analogy, concern the current Article. 70 § 8 Tax Order in which the legal standard has been repeated and extended to include tax pledges.]] [[Eliminating a non-constitutional provision seems obvious, and the amendment to remove that provision from the Tax Order is fully justified.]] [[The PSL Parliamentary Club is in favour of directing the project to work in the Public Finance Committee.]] The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law amending the Tax Order, contained in print No 449, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 18th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. I ask you to take the floor of Mr Ireneusz Oda, the Kukiz Club15. Absent. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Young people, both those who are active in the youth circles of city councils, and in general young people like Poland long and wide, I address you with a few reflections, with words of encouragement. This is May 11th this year. Finally, for the first time in our Parliament's history, the Parliamentary Group was formed. Supporting Youth Councils in the Units of the Territorial Self-Government. It was your representatives who successfully led to this team being formed. If he gets the right meaning in the work of the Sejm, time will show. As long as it deals with specifics, real matters, important for young and youthful city councils, powiats, voivodships, we will settle soon. The inaugural meeting was attended by young people on equal terms with parliamentarians: Ania Podzielna, representing the Youth City Council in Włoszczowa, Tomek Palmi, representing the Youth City Council in Lublin and Michał Tokarski from the Polish Council of Youth Organizations in Warsaw. I think that for many of you young people, the slogan of youth councils does not say much, because it so happens that often the activities of your peers generally in your interest and on your behalf are suspected that they are party outbuildings and partying at all, and they are not. Just because you want them to come up with a career like this isn't a bad thing. Therefore, I ask you, I encourage you, to google out of curiosity information about whether it works in your city, what it does, what the city youth council does. Maybe you'll think it makes sense and it's worth it. The parliamentary team that was formed is pluralistic. It consists of those parliamentarians who are meticulously close to you, but also those who, because of their profession and experience, are kind to you. You know, it's just that since a couple of weeks ago, I promised your friends I'd take care of this band, I made it. Because it's like when you say something, you promise, you promise, no matter what, young or old, you have to be credible. But there's another flavor. When you are unbelievable about what you promise young people, you have a huge responsibility that their generalized lack of trust in adults will increase, including the institutions they represent. That is why it is so important that, especially to you young people, to give a sufficiently clear signal and an example that the word is spoken binding, that like a stone in a well, it must be realized by action. Hey, juniors, high school students, organized and free as birds. The team I'm in charge of is open to you. It's supposed to support your ideas, your ideas that are close to you, it's supposed to solve things that are important to you. But for the world that you live in, for your little homeland, for the city, for the village, for the commune, for the school, for you too. The question is whether you want to do something for her. If so, then the parliamentary team for: Supporting youthful city councils extends its hand to you. We are here to support you, to add power, to comfort and to believe that not everything must be measured by the scale of political calculation. It is better if the power of the good that is sown is measured, and an increasing number of those who will do so. You're welcome to cooperate. Greetings. Come to the meetings of the parliamentary group for: support for youth city councils. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u211	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 18 April this year. I participated in the opening of the World Congress of Chemical Security CHEMSS 2016 and the International Chemical Safety Fair CHEM-SAFETY-EXPO. The International Center for Chemical Security ICCSS in Warsaw and Targi Kielce were the organizers of the congress and the fair. The patronage over the congress took place, among others. Minister for Development, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for National Defence and Head of the National Security Bureau. I gave the participants a message from Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Development. In the opening speech of the CHEMSS 2016, I pointed out that, in a time of globalisation, chemical industry, universal access to chemicals, increasing threats to the use of chemicals for terrorist purposes, chemical security is becoming an important element of state policy. The main objectives should be to create and implement local sustainable development policies in the broader chemical activity: chemical and waste management, planning and responding to the risks associated with these activities, storage and transport of hazardous materials. An integrated approach to chemical and environmental risks, including through legislation, implementing rules and their adaptation to the increasing level of risks, is a leading demand. I pointed out that a friendly environment should be created for chemical and environmental safety in industrial activities, including coal and energy mining. This calls for a promotion of an approach whereby increasing safety and environmental standards is closely linked to the ability to meet them without compromising the fundamental interests of industry and the social interest. The International Congress of Chemical Security in Kielce 2016 was the first such meeting in the world and proved to be a great organizational, substantive and political success. He has gathered over 400 participants from 47 countries, including the US, China, Russia, Iran, South Africa, representatives of international organisations, the European Union and the United Nations, representing stakeholders of all sectors of chemistry, industry, government agencies, science, civil society, NGOs and independent experts. The CHEMSS 2016 programme included the presentation of best practices and solutions available in individual countries and in the global chemical industry. They will be made available within the framework of a global network of cooperation and training, which is developed by Polish and international partners focused around the International Centre for Chemical Security. During the CHEMSS 2016, a number of concrete arrangements have been made that create a wide space for the development of chemical safety at local, national, regional and global level. The leading political achievement of the CHEMSS 2016 is the declaration on the development of international cooperation in the strengthening of chemical security, a declaration drawn up by representatives of the USA and Iran. The first such document in the world will be the political and substantive basis for global cooperation for the development of chemical security. The success of CHEMSS 2016 confirmed that as part of national and international cooperation with partners from government agencies, industry, science and civil society, a new product made in Poland is being created. This is global chemical security. The successful CHEMSS 2016 supports the positive image of Poland abroad, which brings investors and partners closer to Poland. The Congress pointed out and opened up new opportunities for innovative and pro-export directions for the development of the Polish economy and technical and commercial cooperation in Asian, African and American markets. The merger within the next year's CHEMSS 2017, I hope, the potential generated in three sectors: public, private and social, will build national potential for innovation and creativity. Maintaining the next CHEMSS editions in Poland, achieving maximum benefits in terms of state security and promotion of economic interests requires patronage and state resources and participation of private partners. It is desirable to support state agendas in the development of chemical security as a Polish specialization in the world and preparations for CHEMSS 2017 as a joint project of government, industry and civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u213	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u214	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Directorate of the Patriotic National Park resumed its work to draw up a plan for the protection of the park. It's a statute that's been repeated every 20 years. The current draft plan raises a number of controversy among the local community. The main risks are the substantive shortcomings, among others missing. justifications for many of the proposed ecological corridors. And their identification by the park on a given plot results in strict restrictions on the disposal of assets by their owners. The imprecise indication of the boundaries of the shelter condemns landowners to the arbitrary verdict of the park's management. This also applies to local authorities. The draft security plan was made public and subject to public consultation, which takes place primarily at the initiative of local protest committees or local authorities. They have already been extended several times, under undoubted pressure of both residents and ministries. In a clear way, the inhabitants do not accept many imprecise provisions of the plan. Negative emotions among the residents of four neighbouring municipalities are constantly increasing. I would like to express my support for the efforts of the authorities as well as the local communities that intervene on the change in the content of the security plan. Therefore, April 4th this year. I submitted a statement to the Minister of the Environment, and on 2 May I sent a separate letter to Minister Jan Szyszka and Deputy Minister Andrzej Schwedy-Lewandowski, presenting the current tense situation as objectively as possible. I would like to thank you from this point of view for the open attitude I have met with on the part of the Ministry. I hope that at the next stages of the project, the Ministry will show a similar understanding of the inhabitants. I encourage the inhabitants of the municipalities covered by the protection plan: Jerzmanowice, Rocks, Sułoszowa and Great Village to take advantage of the public consultation. They may submit written comments and requests by the end of May. Ladies and gentlemen! The paternal National Park is the common good of all Poles. It needs protection. I have not met with the questioning of its value among the critics of the project, but the inhabitants have the right to be active in the area that has lived for centuries. I believe, I deeply believe, that these often competing interests can be reconciled by the goodwill of both parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u215	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u216	A statement by the Members on Witold Pilecki's 115th anniversary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! May 13th this year We celebrate the 115th anniversary of the birth of Witold Pilecki, captain of the Polish Army cavalry, co-founder of the Secret Polish Army, soldier of the Home Army, prisoner and organizer of the resistance movement in Auschwitz. Witold Pilecki was born in 1901 in Ołońc, a town in northwest Russia. He came from a noble family sealed with Lewiła's coat of arms. He was the son of Julian Pilecki and Ludwika Osiecimska. He had four siblings. In 1910, the Pilecki family moved to Vilnius, where Witold studied in a trade school. Four years later, he joined the Russian Boy Scouts, which was banned by the Russian authorities, where he eventually started his own team. After the February revolution, Witold Pilecki and other senior scouts entered Poland's reborn territory. He passed his math in 1921. In 1918 and 1921 he served in the Polish Army and fought against the Bolsheviks during the war. He participated among others. in the battle of Warsaw and in the rebellion of Żeligowski. He's been decorated twice. The Cross of the Fighters. In August 1939, after being mobilized again, Pilecki fought in the September campaign as commander of the platoon in the squadron of the divisional cavalry 19. The Army Infantry Division of Prussia, followed by 41. The Infantry Division of the Romanian premieres. His last fights were led by his unit as a guerrilla unit. After Pilecki's platoon was dissolved, he went into conspiracy. He entered Warsaw, where he became one of the organizers of the Secret Polish Army under the command of Major. Jan Włodarkiewicz. In early 1940, the Gestapo arrested several TAP members who, after a short stay in Pawiak, were sent to the Auschwitz camp. It was then proposed that someone from the top management should enter the German Auschwitz camp in order to contact the imprisoned members of the organization, collect information about its functioning and organise inside the resistance movement. Pilecki volunteered immediately. He was sent to the camp from 21 to 22 September 1940, together with the so-called. the second Warsaw transport. During his almost 3-year stay in the camp, as prisoner No.4859, he was the main organizer of the conspiracy within the framework of the Union of Military Organization. Pilecki developed e.g. reports on genocide in Auschwitz. Even as a prisoner of the camp, he was promoted to lieutenant, and after he escaped to the rank of captain. In the years 1943-1944 he served in the branch of the 3rd Kedyw KG AK and participated in the Warsaw Uprising and was then imprisoned in German captivity. In December 1945, Witold Pilecki returned to Warsaw. A few months later, he learned that he had been ordered to leave the country. He didn't leave because he didn't have a deputy, and his wife refused to leave the country with her children. Pilecki considered using the amnesty, but eventually decided not to reveal himself. On 8 May 1947, he was arrested and sentenced to death less than a year later. President Bolesław Bierut refused to be pardoned. The sentence was executed on 25 May in the Mokotowski prison at ul. It's a cancer movie. The Rotmaster was killed with a shot to the back of the head. The burial site was unknown. Until 1989, all information about the achievements and fate of rtm. Pilecki was censored, but the conviction was annulled in 1990. After death, 16 years later, Witold Pilecki received the Order of the White Eagle and was promoted to the rank of colonel in 2013. Hello and glory to His memory! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u217	Today, 115 years have passed since 13 May 1901 when Witold Pilecki of Lewiła's coat of arms was born in Ołońc, murdered on 25 May 1948 in Warsaw - captain of the Polish Army cavalry, co-founder of the Polish Secret Army, soldier of the Home Army, prisoners and organizer of the resistance movement in Auschwitz, author of reports about the Holocaust, so-called. Pilecki's reports. The accused and sentenced by the communist authorities of the People's Republic of Poland to the death penalty, which was executed in 1948. The judgment was annulled in 1990. He received the Order of the White Eagle posthumously in 2006 and was promoted to the rank of colonel in 2013. In 1918 and 1921 he served in the Polish Army, fought against the Bolsheviks during the war. As a cavalryman, he took part in the defense of Grodno. On 5 August 1920 he joined 211. The Ulanów Regiment and his troops fought in the battle of Warsaw, the battle in Rudnicka Forest and participated in the rebellion of Żeligowski. Twice he was awarded the Cross of Valor. After the war, he was demobilized. In the '20s. In the 20th century, the Pilecki family regained the estate of the Succhini near Lida (he passed as a van from the Domeyks) along with the old Polish manor house. The estate was leased earlier. The children of Witold and Mary, Andrew's son and Zofia's daughter, were raised there. In August 1939 it was mobilized again. He fought in the September campaign as commander of the platoon in the squadron of the divisional cavalry 19. The Army Infantry Division of Prussia, followed by 41. The Infantry Division of the Romanian premieres. His last fights were led by his unit as a guerrilla unit. Pilecki solved his platoon on October 17, 1939 and went into conspiracy. After the September campaign he entered Warsaw, he was one of the organizers of the underground organization of the secret Polish Army under the command of Major on 9 November 1939. Jan Włodarkiewicz. At the end of August 1940, TAP's management convened a meeting discussing the current situation, proposing that someone from the top management should enter the German Auschwitz concentration camp in order to contact imprisoned members of the organization, collect intelligence on its functioning and organise inside the resistance movement. The Rotmaster volunteered to perform this task. His experiences from that time included in the reports, for reading I recommend the book by Rotmaster Pilecki. Volunteer to Auschwitz. On the night of 26 to 27 April 1943. Pilecki and two fellow prisoners managed to escape from the camp, they were Jan Redzej and Edward Ciesielski. On 11 November 1943, he was promoted to the rank of captain. Between 1943 and 1944 he served in the branch III of the Kedyw KG AK (e.g. As Deputy Commander of the Information and Inquiry Brigade, he participated in the Warsaw Uprising. Initially, he fought as an ordinary shooter in the company of Warszawianka, later he commanded one of the troops of the group of Chrobry II, in the so-called. Witold's reduction (former head office of the Polish Rzeczpospolita). Between 1944 and 1945 he was in German captivity at 344 Lamsdorf Stalag (pol. Łambinowice), oflag VII A in Murnau. On 8 May 1945 the liberated Murnau camp was visited by generals: Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, p.o. Chief Chief Antoni Chrustiel and Tadeusz Pełczyński. Rotmistr Pilecki came to the report with General Pełczyński, because Pilecki was not allowed to join the fights in the Warsaw Uprising and leave the country as a soldier. Witold Pilecki has been ordered to report to the chief chief general, General Bora. This conversation didn't happen. It was directed to Colonel Witold. Kazimierz Irank-Osmecki and waiting for further orders. On 11 May 1945, Colonel Iranek confirmed the order to wait for its disposal. Soon Witold was assigned to 2. Polish Corps. He became an officer of the second division of this unit, and his superior was then colonel dypl. Stanisław Kijak, planning to create an intelligence network in the People's Republic of Poland. On 5 and 11 September, Pilecki talked to General Władysław Anders about his return to the country to pursue the aims of the organization NIE. On December 8, 1945, Witold Pilecki and Maria Szelągowska reached Warsaw. The group gathered information about the post-war political situation in Poland and contacted guerrilla forest departments. She was interviewing MBP, MON and MFA. After Tadeusz Płużański made contact with Leszek Kuchciński in September 1946, the oral information and documents from the area of the MBP were provided by Capt. Wacław Alchimovich. The MBP informant never met with Pilecki in person. The role of intermediary and liaison in Pilecki's contacts - Alchimowicz was Płużański. He was arrested on 8 May 1947 in the apartment of Helena and Makary Sieradzki at ul. Yours, where he came to, not knowing about the arrest of his owners the day before and the boiler that was created there. In custody, he was tortured by security officials, among others. By one of the cruelest investigators in the world, Eugeniusz Chimczak. During the last, as it turned out later, he confessed to her in this context: Oświęcim was a prank... The prosecutor of Pilecki's accusation was Major Czesław Łapiński, chairman of the jury of Colonel Jan Hryckowian (both former officers of the AK and LWP), judge of Capt. Józef Badecki. On March 15, 1948, the captain was sentenced to death. The sentence was executed on 25 May in a Mokotów prison on Rakowiecka, by shooting at the back of the head. The executioner was Piotr Śmietanski, called the Mokotów Cat. Witold Pilecki left his wife, daughter and son. The eternal glory of Polish heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Arrogance, waste, nepotism, contempt for the state. This is how you sum up what comes from the state report on the pill. At the meeting of the Sejm, the government presented information on the state of the state after the government of PO-PSL. The material presented by the ministers of the Government of Law and Justice in the Sejm is a picture of the state that Donald Tusk and Eve Kopacz left behind. Unfortunately, this material confirms what the Poles heard on the tapes of truth. PO - the previous power was exclusively concerned with its own interests. Arrogance, nepotism, great waste and care only for the interests of their own is the true face of the last 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition government. The best confirmation of this is the fact that over 340 billion PLN was wasted by the two previous governments, which would suffice for 8 years of the 500+ programme, 5 000. newly built kindergartens, 250 hospitals and 1500 kilometres of highways. This number, contrary to the allegations of our political adversaries, is as true as possible and consists of the following elements: 1. Deceived, due to the inability of previous governments, VAT and CIT taxes are a decrease in tax efficiency by more than 3% GDP, i.e. PLN 50 billion for 2015. Counting an average annual loss of about PLN 40 billion, in 8 years this results in a total loss of about PLN 320 billion. 2. The wrongly spent funds in health care resulted in a loss of PLN 1.8 billion, including the following incorrect investments and projects: unjustified maintenance of the NFZ IT system, non-functioning electronic data collection platform, malfunctioning Register of Medical Services, wasted Norwegian financial program, unused funds for cancer treatment. 3. Invoking claims against the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways of about PLN 6 billion. 4. Damages in the maritime economy of about PLN 10 billion due to the need to reimburse EU funds for the fisheries programme. In addition to the above irregularities, the previous governments of the PO-PSL coalition have also committed the following offences, which resulted in the waste of Polish money as well as the development opportunities of Poland: 1. Poles cheated in the event of Amber Gold lost about 600 million PLN. 2. Among the 48 research institutes supervised by the former Ministry of Economy, two are in bankruptcy, seven are implementing repair programs, four are facing management problems, and several are operating solely because of the rental of their property. 3. Only 5 gr of each zloty allocated Polish trading facilities abroad to their basic activities, i.e. supporting exports, the rest are the costs of maintaining the institutions themselves. 4. The PO-PSL government did not take advantage of the chance created by the winning process as a consequence of Poland's complaint about the European Commission's decision and therefore in 2008-2012 Polish companies did not receive emission allowances of 76 million t CO2 per year, resulting in the loss of emission allowances of 380 million t CO2 worth about PLN 9 billion. 5. Another scandalous investment was the release of PLN 300 million on the Information Security System of the Country, which does not work. In order for it to work, you will need to spend an additional 36 million PLN. 6. Over PLN 50 million was spent on the Emp@tia IT system, which was inefficient, needed optimization and improvements. Similar problems occurred in an IT system that supports the Large Family Card. Many of its functionality, e.g. the reporting module did not work. 7. More than PLN 50 billion costs the annual maintenance of all officials in Poland, to which the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party contributed to a significant extent, employing many thousands of new officials during their reign. 8. About PLN 50 billion was spent on development programmes of the Polish Armed Forces, none of which were completed. 9. Because of the wrong climate policy and the high prices of emission rights, the state budget has suffered PLN 16.5 billion. In addition, significant, sometimes outrageous negligence and intentional actions in individual ministries during the PO-PSL coalition regime should also be mentioned. For example, the audit showed that the debt of public hospitals at the end of 2015 amounted to PLN 14 billion. The fact is undisputed that there is no plan to heal the situation in public health by the governments of Ewa Kopacz and Donald Tusk. The Ministry of National Defence decided to allocate PLN 1.1 billion for the purchase of modern mortars, but the purchase of ammunition to them was discontinued, which in the context of the current security threat Poland was an outrageous decision. The Ministry of Treasury decided to privatise some state-owned companies on which the state budget lost over PLN 1 billion. The Ministry of Justice in turn wasted about PLN 217 million in connection with the failed IT project. On the other hand, the renovation of the Minister of Infrastructure cost only PLN 1.2 million, which shows how previous governments respected taxpayers' money. It is also important to mention the extremely damaging decisions of the PO-PSL governments in the sphere of the economy, which would result, for example, in the liquidation of shipyards or in the collapse of many companies which have not been paid for construction and road works. In addition, the audit carried out has shown illegal and absolutely unacceptable in the democratic state of the law operational and cognitive activities which have been carried out by the special services towards those who the governments of PO-PSL have recognised as their political opponents. The reason for this is the fact that 52 independent journalists were under surveillance only because they dared to describe the loose conduct and lack of respect for the letter of the law of the then rulers. By quoting the above facts, it can certainly be concluded that the soap bubble of the governments of PO and PSL broke. Beautifully painted wall was only a facade, while Poles, often for the first time, heard the truth about 8 years of government of PO-PSL. This truth was needed by Poles, because the governments of Donald Tusk and Eve Kopacz did not have the courage to settle their decisions. The truth which was presented yesterday by individual ministers from the speaker belonged to all citizens. These eight years are behind us, but we need to learn the right lessons from them. The opposition is now focused solely on starting a fight because its purpose is not public good, but to instigate people and try to protect their own agreements and privileges. However, our actions show that the consequences, work and defence of Polish interests are effective. Poles gave us a mandate to exercise power in Poland and to make fundamental changes that will serve ordinary people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-13-sejm-18-3.u219	Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 18th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 19th session of the Sejm, convened on 18, 19 and 20 May 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 14 min 56]]
